CITY OF CANNON FALLS, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 383, passed 5-17-2022
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 316
SECOND SERIES
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCE FOR THE CITY OF CANNON FALLS,
MINNESOTA, AMENDING, RESTATING, UPDATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES, AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES.
   THE CITY COUNCIL OF CANNON FALLS ORDAINS:
WHEREAS, Minnesota Statutes Sections 415.02 and 415.03 authorize the city to
cause its ordinances to be codified and printed in a book,
NOW, THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of Cannon Falls, Minnesota,
ordains:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the City, as amended, restated, revised,
updated, codified and compiled in book form, including penalties for the
violations of various provisions thereof, are hereby adopted and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Cannon Falls." This Code of
Ordinances also adopts by reference certain statutes and administrative rules
of the State of Minnesota as named in the Code of Ordinances.
Section 3.   All prior ordinances, pertaining to the subjects treated in the
Code of Ordinances, shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance, except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in
part in the Code of Ordinances; provided, this repeal shall not affect any
offense committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the
effective date of this ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions
of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching
territory, establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain
persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or
borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal
property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public
use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor
shall this repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature
or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code of
Ordinances. All fees established in prior ordinances codified in this Code
shall remain in effect unless amended in this Code or until an ordinance
adopting a fee schedule is adopted or amended.
Section 4.   This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances shall be a
sufficient publication of any ordinance included in it and not previously
published in the City's official newspaper. The official copy of this Code of
Ordinances shall marked and be kept in the office of the City Clerk.
Section 5. The Code of Ordinances is declared to be prima facie evidence of the
law of the City and shall be received in evidence as provided by Minnesota
Statutes by the Courts of the State of Minnesota.
PASSED AND DULY ADOPTED this 5th day of June, 2012 by the City Council of the
City of Cannon Falls, Minnesota.
                                    CITY OF CANNON FALLS
                                    By: Lyman M. Robinson /s/
                                    Lyman M. Robinson, Mayor
ATTEST:
Aaron S. Reeves /s/
Aaron S. Reeves, City Administrator
Published in Cannon Falls Beacon on June 21, 2012.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules and supplements by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
   
10.21   Payment into city treasury of fines and penalties
 
   
10.98   Supplemental administrative penalties
   
10.99   General penalty and enforcement
   
Appendix A:   Notice of code violation
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
"Cannon Falls Code," for which designation "code of ordinances," "codified
ordinances" or "code" may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the "Traffic Code." Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation "§" followed by the number, such as "§
10.01." Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance:
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
(Prior Code, § 1.11)
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
(Prior Code, § 1.07)
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The City of Cannon Falls, Minnesota as presently established or as
amended by ordinance, annexation or other legal actions at a future time. The
term CITY when used in this code may also be used to refer to the City Council
and its authorized representatives.
      CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The person duly appointed by the City Council and
acting in that capacity. All references in the city code to Clerk-Treasurer or
Treasurer shall be references to the CITY ADMINISTRATOR or, in the absence from
the city or disability of the CITY ADMINISTRATOR, the references shall be to
the Assistant Administrator.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      CONVICTION. Any of the following accepted and recorded by the Court:
         (a)   A plea of guilt;
         (b)   A verdict of guilty by a jury or finding of guilty by the Court;
or
         (c)   An Alford Plea.
      COUNCIL and CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Cannon Falls,
Minnesota.
      COUNTY. The County of Goodhue.
      CRIME. Conduct which is prohibited by ordinance and for which the actor
may be sentenced to imprisonment or fine.
      EX OFFICIO MEMBER. A person who is not counted for the purpose of
determining a quorum and has no right to vote, but shall have the right and
obligation (within his or her discretion) to speak to any question coming
before the board, commission or other deliberative body of which he or she is a
member.
      INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of
the lateral curb line or, if no curb, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways or streets which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different streets
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      ORDINANCE. An ordinance duly adopted by the City Council of Cannon Falls,
Minnesota.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      POLICE OFFICER and PEACE OFFICER. Every officer, including special
police, authorized to direct or regulate traffic, keep the peace and appointed
or employed for the purpose of law enforcement.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PREMISES. Any lot, piece or parcel of land within a continuous boundary
whether publicly or privately owned, occupied or possessed.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property not included within the definition of
public property or public place.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY and PUBLIC PLACE. Any place, property or premises
dedicated to the public use, owned by the city, occupied by the city as a
lessee or occupied by the city as a street by reason of an easement, including,
but not limited to, streets, parks or parking lots so owned or occupied.
      ROADWAY. The portion of the street improved, designed or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel. In the event a street includes two or more separate
roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein shall refer to any roadway separately
but not to all roadways collectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      STREET. The entire area dedicated to public use, or contained in an
easement or other conveyance or grant to the city and shall include, but not be
limited to, roadways, boulevards, sidewalk, alleys and other public property
between lateral property lines in which a roadway lies.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      VIOLATE. Include failure to comply with.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(Prior Code, § 1.02) (Ord. 10, effective 7-17-1981; Ord. 37, effective 12-23-
1983; Ord. 89, effective 10-14-1988; Ord. 146, effective 7-1-1994)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(Prior Code, § 1.05)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway right-of-ways,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Administrator for public inspection. The City Administrator shall provide a
copy for sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES AND SUPPLEMENTS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code,
all future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes adopted by
reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted by
reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this code
was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
   (B)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting the code,
all future supplements are hereby adopted as if they had been in existence at
the time this code was enacted, unless there is clear intention expressed in
the code to the contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the city's Police Department or the
County Sheriff or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Administrator shall have the authority to administer and enforce
this code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain individuals
designated within the code or by the City Administrator or City Council shall
have the authority to administer and enforce the provisions specified. All and
any person or persons designated may issue a citation in lieu of arrest or
continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Administrator and any city official or employee designated by
this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may with
the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or resident
of a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or otherwise
enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Administrator, peace officer or any employee or official charged with the duty
of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable
cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting
the inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only
to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (E)   Every licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property
within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or entrance to
the property by the City Administrator or any other authorized city officer or
employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are being complied with
and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit the inspection
of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for termination of any and all
permits, licenses or city service to the property. Mailed notice shall be given
to the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of the property,
stating the grounds for the termination, and the licensee, owner, resident or
other person in control of the property shall be given an opportunity to appear
before the City Administrator to object to the termination before it occurs,
subject to appeal of the City Administrator's decision to the City Council at a
regularly scheduled or special meeting.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
§ 10.21 PAYMENT INTO CITY TREASURY OF FINES AND PENALTIES.
   All fines, forfeitures and penalties recovered for violation of any
ordinance, charter, rule or regulation of the city shall be paid into the city
treasury by the Court or officer thereof receiving the monies. Payment shall be
made in the manner, at the time, and in the proportion provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1.06)
§ 10.98 SUPPLEMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to those administrative penalties established in this code
and the enforcement powers granted in §
10.20, the City Council is authorized to create by resolution, adopted by a
majority of the members of the Council, supplemental administrative penalties.
The resolution may not proscribe administrative penalties for traffic offenses
designated by M.S. § 169.999, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   These administrative penalty procedures in this section are intended
to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost effective and
expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
certain provisions of this code. The procedures are intended to be voluntary on
the part of those who have been charged with those offenses.
   (C)   Administrative penalties for violations of various provisions of the
code, other than those penalties established in the code or in statutes that
are adopted by reference, may be established from time to time by resolution of
a majority of the members of the City Council. In order to be effective, an
administrative penalty for a particular violation must be established before
the violation occurred.
   (D)   In the discretion of the peace officer, City Administrator or other
person giving notice of an alleged violation of a provision of this code, in a
written notice of an alleged violation, sent by first class mail to the person
who is alleged to have violated the code, the person giving notice may request
the payment of a voluntary administrative penalty for the violation directly to
the City Administrator within 14 days of the notice of the violation. A sample
notice is contained in Appendix A to this chapter. In the sole discretion of
the person giving the notice of the alleged violation, the time for payment may
be extended an additional 14 days, whether or not requested by the person to
whom the notice has been given. In addition to the administrative penalty, the
person giving notice may request in the notice to the alleged violator to adopt
a compliance plan to correct the situation resulting in the alleged violation
and may provide that if the alleged violator corrects the situation resulting
in the alleged violation within the time specified in the notice, that the
payment of the administrative penalty will be waived.
   (E)   At any time before the payment of the administrative penalty is due,
the person who has been given notice of an alleged violation may request to
appear before the City Council to contest the request for payment of the
penalty. After a hearing before the Council, the Council may determine to
withdraw the request for payment or to renew the request for payment. Because
the payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary, there shall be no
appeal from the decision of the Council.
   (F)   At any time after the date the payment of the administrative penalty
is due, if the administrative penalty remains unpaid or the situation creating
the alleged violation remains uncorrected, the city, through its Attorney, may
bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this code. Likewise,
the city, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first instance,
rather than requesting the payment of an administrative penalty, even if a
penalty for the particular violation has been established by Council
resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the city for the alleged violation.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes
or Rules specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more
than 90 days or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes or Rules specifically adopted by reference,
which is designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty
of a petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense
which is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than
$300.
   (C)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs
of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 1.09)
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section or in §
10.98, if any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of
this code, the Council or any city official designated by it, may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the
violation.
(Prior Code, § 1.03)
APPENDIX A: NOTICE OF CODE VIOLATION
NOTICE OF CODE VIOLATION
To: (Name and address of person who is alleged to have violated the code)
From: (Name and title of city official giving the notice)
Re: Alleged violation of section of the city code, relating to (give title of
section)
Date: (Date of notice)
I hereby allege that on (date of violation) you violated §                   
of the city code relating to                        
                                                                                                             .
The City Council has by resolution established an administrative penalty in the
amount of $         for this violation.
Payment of this administrative penalty is voluntary, but if you do not pay it
the city may initiate criminal proceedings for this alleged violation.
Payment is due within 14 days of the date of this notice. Before the due date,
you may request an additional 14-day extension of the time to pay the
administrative penalty.
As an alternative to the payment of this administrative penalty, if the
situation that gave rise to this alleged violation is corrected by
                        (establish date), then the payment of the
administrative penalty will be waived.
Even if the administrative penalty is paid, the city reserves the right to
institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or
abate the violation.
Before the due date, you may request to appear before the City Council to
contest the request for payment of the penalty. After a hearing before the
Council, the Council may determine to withdraw the request for payment or to
renew the request for payment. Because the payment of the administrative
penalty is voluntary, there shall be no appeal from the decision of the
Council.
If you pay the administrative penalty, the city will not initiate criminal
proceedings for this alleged violation. However, the Council, or any city
official designated by it, may institute appropriate proceedings at law or at
equity to restrain, correct or abate the violation.
Payment of the administrative penalty may be made by check, cash or money order
to the City Administrator.
Signed:                                                               
   (Name and Title of Person Giving Notice)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
31.   CITY OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
         
32.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
         
33.   CITY POLICIES
         
34.   FINANCES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Authority and purpose
   
30.02   Council meetings; time and place
   
30.03   Special meetings
   
30.04   Council procedure at regular meetings
   
30.05   City seal
   
30.06   Right to administrative appeal
   
30.07   Rules of procedure for appeals and other hearings
   
30.08   Facsimile signatures
   
30.09   Accounts, claims or demands
   
30.10   Interim emergency succession
   
30.11   Salaries of Mayor, Mayor Pro Tem and Council members
   
30.12   Worker's compensation
   
30.13   Preparation of annual budget
§ 30.01 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to authority granted by the Charter, this chapter of the city code
is enacted so as to set down for enforcement the government and good order of
the city by and through the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.01)
§ 30.02 COUNCIL MEETINGS; TIME AND PLACE.
   Regular meetings of the Council shall be held in the Council Chambers on the
first and third Tuesdays of each month at 6:30 p.m. Special and adjourned
meetings shall also be held in the Council Chambers. In the event that any
regular meeting falls on a holiday, then the meeting shall be held at a future
date to be determined by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.02) (Ord. 298, passed 11-5-2009)
§ 30.03 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or by any
two other members of the Council by writing filed with the City Administrator
stating the time, place and purpose of the meeting.
   (B)   Notice of a special meeting shall be given by the City Administrator
to each member of the Council by mailing a copy of the filing to all members
who did not sign or issue the call at least three days prior to the time stated
therein, or by personal service at least 72 hours prior to the projected time
of meeting.
   (C)   Special meetings may be held without prior written notice to the
Council when all Council members are present at the meeting or consent thereto
in writing. Any consent shall be filed with the City Administrator prior to the
beginning of the meeting.
   (D)   Any special meeting attended by all Council members shall be a valid
meeting for the transaction of any business that may come before the meeting.
Meetings of the Council which are adjourned from time to time shall not be
subject to the foregoing notice requirements; nor shall special meetings which,
in the judgment of the Council, require immediate consideration to meet an
emergency require notice, but may be called by telephone communication or any
other expeditious means.
   (E)   Notice to the public and to news media shall be given as required by
statute.
(Prior Code, § 2.03) (Ord. 147, effective 7-1-1994)
§ 30.04 COUNCIL PROCEDURE AT REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall prepare the following items:
      (1)   An agenda for the forthcoming meeting;
      (2)   A report from the City Administrator on administrative activities
of the preceding month;
      (3)   A compiled list of all claimants who have filed verified accounts
claiming payment for goods or services rendered the city; and
      (4)   A copy of all minutes to be considered.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall forthwith cause to be mailed or delivered
to the Mayor and each Council member copies of all documents.
   (C)   Roberts' Rules of Order (Newly Revised) shall govern all Council
meetings as to procedural matters not set forth in the Charter or city code.
   (D)   The order of business shall be established by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 2.04)
§ 30.05 CITY SEAL.
   All contracts to which the city is a party shall be sealed with the city
seal. The seal shall be kept in the custody of the City Administrator or
Assistant City Administrator and affixed by him or her. The official city seal
shall be a circular disc having engraved thereupon "CITY OF CANNON FALLS" and
any other words, figures or emblems as the Council may, by resolution,
designate.
(Prior Code, § 2.05)
§ 30.06 RIGHT TO ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL.
   If any person shall be aggrieved by any administrative decision of the City
Administrator or any other city official, or any board or commission not having
within its structure an appellate procedure, the aggrieved person is entitled
to a full hearing before the Council upon serving a written request therefor
upon the Mayor and City Administrator at least five days prior to any regular
Council meeting. The request shall contain a general statement setting forth
the administrative decision to be challenged by the appellant. At the hearing
the appellant may present any evidence he or she deems pertinent to the appeal,
but the city shall not be required to keep a verbatim record of the
proceedings. The Mayor, or other officer presiding at the hearing, may, in the
interest of justice or to comply with time requirements and on his or her own
motion or the motion of the appellant, the City Administrator or a member of
the Council, adjourn the hearing to a more convenient time or place, but the
time or place shall be fixed and determined before adjournment so as to avoid
the necessity for formal notice of reconvening.
(Prior Code, § 2.06)
§ 30.07 RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR APPEALS AND OTHER HEARINGS.
   (A)   The Council may adopt by resolution certain written rules of procedure
to be followed in all administrative appeals and other hearings to be held
before the Council or other bodies authorized to hold hearings and determine
questions therein presented.
   (B)   These rules of procedure shall be effective 30 days after adoption and
shall be for the purpose of establishing and maintaining order and decorum in
the proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 2.07)
§ 30.08 FACSIMILE SIGNATURES.
   (A)   The Mayor, City Administrator and Assistant City Administrator are
hereby authorized to request a depository of city funds to honor an order for
payment when the instrument bears a facsimile of his or her signature, and to
charge the same to the account designated thereon or upon which it is drawn, as
effectively as though it were his or her manually written signature.
   (B)   This authority is granted only for the purpose of permitting the
officers an economy of time and effort.
   (C)   All checks shall require one manual signature.
(Prior Code, § 2.08)
§ 30.09 ACCOUNTS, CLAIMS OR DEMANDS.
   (A)   Generally. Except as to an annual salary, fees of jurors or witnesses
fixed by law or wages or salaries of employees which have been fixed on an
hourly, daily, weekly or monthly basis by the Council and which by law are
authorized to be paid on a payroll basis, any account, claim or demand against
the city which can be itemized in the ordinary course of business, the Council
shall not audit or allow the claim until the person claiming payment, or his or
her agent, reduce it to writing, in items.
   (B)   Form and effect of declaration on check.
      (1)   The declaration provided for in division (B) above shall be printed
on the reverse side of the check, above the space for endorsement thereof by
the payee, as follows:
   The undersigned payee, in endorsing this check declares that the same is
received in payment of a just and correct claim against the city, and that no
part of it has heretofore been paid.
      (2)   When endorsed by the payee named in the check, the statement shall
operate and shall be deemed sufficient as the required declaration of claim.
   (C)   Signing checks. All checks shall be signed by the Mayor and the City
Administrator or Assistant City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 2.09)
§ 30.10 INTERIM EMERGENCY SUCCESSION.
   (A)   Purpose. Due to the existing possibility of an attack or a natural
disaster requiring a declaration of a state of emergency, it is found urgent
and necessary to ensure the continuity of duly elected and lawful leadership of
the city to provide for the continuity of the government and the emergency
interim succession of key governmental officials by providing a method for
temporary emergency appointments to their offices.
   (B)   Succession to local offices. In the event of a nuclear attack upon the
United States or a natural disaster affecting the vicinity of the city, the
Mayor, Council and City Administrator shall be forthwith notified by any one of
the persons and by any means available to gather at the City Hall. In the event
that safety or convenience dictate, an alternative place of meeting may be
designated. Those gathered shall proceed as follows.
      (1)   By majority vote of those persons present, regardless of number,
they shall elect a Chairperson and Secretary to preside and keep minutes,
respectively.
      (2)   They shall review and record the specific facts relating to the
nuclear attack or natural disaster and injuries to persons or damage to
property already done, or the imminence thereof.
      (3)   They may, based on the facts, declare a state of emergency.
      (4)   By majority vote of those persons present, regardless of number,
they shall fill all positions on the Council, (including the office of Mayor)
of those persons upon whom notice could not be served or who are unable to be
present.
      (5)   Interim successors shall serve until a time as the duly elected
official is again available and returns to his or her position, or the state of
emergency has passed and a successor is designated and qualifies as required by
law, whichever shall occur first.
   (C)   Duties of the Interim Emergency Council. The Interim Emergency Council
shall exercise the powers and duties of their offices, and appoint other key
government officials to serve during the emergency.
(Prior Code, § 2.10)
§ 30.11 SALARIES OF MAYOR, MAYOR PRO TEM AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   Salaries of the Mayor, Mayor Pro Tem and Council members are hereby fixed as
follows, which amounts are determined reasonable.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be paid a salary of $140 per month plus $125 for each
regular Council meeting attended.
   (B)   The Mayor Pro Tem shall be paid a salary of $125 per month plus $110
for each regular Council meeting attended.
   (C)   Council members, other than the Council member designated Mayor Pro
Tem, shall be paid a salary of $110 per month plus $95 for each regular Council
meeting attended.
   (D)   These salaries shall take effect following the next city election, on
January 1, 2017.
(Prior Code, § 2.11) (Ord. 191, effective 1-2-1999; Ord. 343, passed 12-1-2015)
§ 30.12 WORKER'S COMPENSATION.
   All officers of the city elected or appointed for a regular term of office
or to complete the unexpired portion of any regular term shall be included in
the definition of EMPLOYEE as defined in the state statutes relating to
coverage for purposes of worker's compensation entitlement.
(Prior Code, § 2.12)
§ 30.13 PREPARATION OF ANNUAL BUDGET.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall receive budgetary information from all
department heads, and shall supplement information with information as to areas
not covered by the department heads.
   (B)   He or she shall consolidate and arrange the budget by all funds of the
city.
   (C)   The estimates of expenditures shall be arranged for each department or
division of the city in a manner acceptable to the Council.
   (D)   In addition to the estimates of expenditures, the budget shall include
for each budgeted fund a statement of the revenues, based insofar as necessary
on estimates, for the current fiscal year, and an estimate of the revenues for
the ensuing fiscal year.
   (E)   The statement of revenues shall be arranged for each department or
division of the city in a manner acceptable to the Council.
   (F)   The estimates shall be printed or typewritten and there shall be
sufficient copies for each member of the Council, the City Administrator and
additional copies to be filed in the office of the City Administrator for
public use.
(Prior Code, § 2.13)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
City Departments
   
31.01   Departments generally
   
31.02   Police Department
   
31.03   Fire Department
   
31.04   [Reserved]
   
31.05   Building Department
   
31.06   Legal Department
City Administrator
   
31.20   Establishment and appointment
   
31.21   Powers and duties
Assistant City Administrator
   
31.35   Assistant City Administrator
Cross-reference:
   Public Works Commission, see §§
32.130 and
32.131
CITY DEPARTMENTS
§ 31.01 DEPARTMENTS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Appointment.
      (1)   All department heads and employees shall be appointed by the
Council.
      (2)   All appointments shall be for an indeterminate term.
   (B)   Compensation. All wage and salary scales shall be fixed and determined
by the Council.
   (C)   Table of organization and lines of responsibility. The Council may by
resolution adopt, amend, and from time to time revise, a table of organization
and define lines of responsibility and authority for the efficient governmental
organization of the city.
   (D)   Budgetary information.
      (1)   The heads of all departments shall, at a date set by the City
Administrator but not later than July 1 in each year, file with the City
Administrator the projected financial needs of his or her department for the
ensuing year
      (2)   These projections shall include information as to maintenance and
operation of equipment, new equipment, personnel and other information as may
be requested by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.20) (Ord. 33, effective 7-22-1983)
§ 31.02 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   A Police Department is hereby established.
   (B)   The head of this Department shall be known as the Chief of Police.
   (C)   The Mayor shall have, without the approval of the Council, authority
to appoint additional members to the Police Department for temporary duty when
in his or her judgment an emergency exists for the preservation of life or
property.
   (D)   The Chief of Police and all members of the Police Department shall
have the powers and authority of police officers generally and shall perform
duties as are required of them by the Council or by law. The Chief of Police
shall have general superintendence of the Police Department and custody of all
property used and maintained for the purposes of the Department. The Chief of
Police shall make and file reports as may be required by the Council. In the
absence or disability of the Chief of Police, the officer designated by the
Chief of Police or City Administrator shall fulfill the duties of the Chief of
Police.
(Prior Code, § 2.21) (Ord. 23, effective 12-10-1982)
§ 31.03 FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   A Fire Department is hereby established.
   (B)   The size and composition, including, but not limited to, a
determination as to permanent and volunteer members, shall be established by
resolution of the Council, which may be changed from time to time by a
subsequent resolution.
   (C)   The Council shall also establish, and from time to time revise and
amend, written rules and regulations of the Department including, but not
limited to, its internal structural organization and compensation, a copy of
which shall be distributed to each of its members whenever established, revised
or amended.
   (D)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have general supervision of the
Fire Department and the custody of all property used and maintained for the
purposes of the Department. He or she shall see that the same are kept in
proper order and that all rules and regulations and all provisions of the laws
of the state and ordinances of the city relative to a Fire Department and to
prevention and extinguishment of fires are duly observed. He or she shall
supervise the preservation of all property endangered by fire and shall control
and direct all persons engaged in preserving the property. In case of the
absence or disability of the Chief for any cause, the Assistant Chief shall
exercise all powers, perform all the duties and be subject to all the
responsibilities of the Chief. The Chief of the Fire Department shall make and
file other reports as may be requested by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.22)
§ 31.04 [RESERVED].
§ 31.05 BUILDING DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   A Building Department is hereby established.
   (B)   The head of the Building Department shall be the Building Inspector
(referred to in the State Building Code as the "Administrative Authority"),
together with assistants and staff members as may be authorized from time to
time by the Council.
   (C)   It shall be the duty and power of the Building Inspector to carry out
the provisions of the State Building Code and the ordinances of the city
relating to construction. The Building Inspector shall submit a periodic report
to the Council covering the work of his or her Department for intervals
required by the Council.
   (D)   The City Council may determine to contract the duties of the Building
Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 2.24)
§ 31.06 LEGAL DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   A Legal Department is hereby established.
   (B)   The Council shall appoint a City Attorney, who shall be head of the
Legal Department, together with assistants as may be necessary who shall serve
at the pleasure of the Council.
   (C)   The City Attorney shall perform duties as are required of him or her
by law or referred to him or her by the Council. It shall be the official duty
of the City Attorney to act as revisor of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 2.25)
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
§ 31.20 ESTABLISHMENT AND APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The position of City Administrator is hereby established.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall be appointed by the Council for an
indeterminate term for compensation and upon conditions as fixed and determined
by the Council.
   (C)   The Council shall also appoint an Assistant City Administrator to
serve in case of vacancy, absence from the city or disability of the City
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 2.26, Subd. 1)
§ 31.21 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The City Administrator shall be the chief administrative officer of the city
and shall be responsible to the Council for the proper administration of city
affairs, and to that end shall be empowered and required to:
   (A)   Perform duties as specifically required by the City Charter, city code
or other law, including those duties assigned by reference to the "City Clerk"
or "City Clerk-Treasurer." The City Administrator may employ the title of
clerk, treasurer, administrator or hyphenated combinations of these titles as
necessary or convenient;
   (B)   Prepare and submit to the Council a proposed annual budget and
administer it after Council approval, keep the Council apprised of the
financial condition of the city and make recommendations for modifications of
the budget as desirable or necessary;
   (C)   Manage and administer the finances of the city, including the
investment of city funds, the development and execution of financial and
capital improvement plans and the oversight of public expenditures and
contracts;
   (D)   Monitor and direct all consultant and contract work performed for the
city, including the City Attorneys;
   (E)   Design, coordinate, implement and monitor city programs and projects
developed to meet city goals and objectives, and manage all city properties and
facilities;
   (F)   Recommend to the Council the adoption of measures as necessary or
desirable to promote the public health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the city, and the improvement of the city administration;
   (G)   Coordinate the activities of all city departments and personnel, meet
with and direct the responsibilities of the department heads, assign department
tasks and functions and respond to complaints and concerns regarding city
activities;
   (H)   Recommend the hiring of employees to the Council, supervise all
department heads, prepare and coordinate performance and training programs for
all employees and recommend to the Council any discipline of department heads,
supervisors or employees;
   (I)   Coordinate and administer Council meetings, agendas, public records
and activities, serve as city representative and liaison with other public and
private individuals or groups, and coordinate the activities of city committees
and commissions;
   (J)   Draft and issue administrative manuals, orders, rules, directives and
regulations outlining general and specific procedures for the administration of
the city's activities;
   (K)   Develop, supervise and monitor personnel policies and procedures
including the negotiation of labor agreements;
   (L)   Supervise and manage all elections administered by the city; and
   (M)   Perform other duties as assigned by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.26, Subd. 2)
ASSISTANT CITY ADMINISTRATOR
§ 31.35 ASSISTANT CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The position of Assistant City Administrator is hereby established.
   (B)   The Assistant City Administrator shall be appointed by the Council for
an indeterminate term for compensation and upon terms and conditions as fixed
and determined by the Council.
   (C)   The Assistant City Administrator shall assist the City Administrator
and shall serve as the City Administrator with all powers and duties assigned
to that position in the vacancy, absence from the city or disability of the
City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 2.27) (Ord. 179, effective 12-12-1997)
CHAPTER 32: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.001   Boards and commissions generally
Library Board
   
32.015   Establishment and composition
   
32.016   Powers
   
32.017   Duties
   
32.018   Revenue and expenditures
Board of Adjustments and Appeals
   
32.030   Board of Adjustments and Appeals
Planning Commission
   
32.045   Establishment and composition
   
32.046   Organization, meetings and the like
Cannon Valley Trail Board
   
32.060   Cannon Valley Trail Board
Tree Board
   
32.075   Establishment and composition
   
32.076   Powers and duties
   
32.077   City Forester
Police Commission
   
32.095   Establishment and composition
   
32.096   Duties
Cable Commission
   
32.110   Establishment and composition
   
32.111   Duties
Finance Committee
   
32.120   Establishment and composition
   
32.121   Duties
Public Works Commission
   
32.130   Establishment and composition
   
32.131   Duties
Park Advisory Board
   
32.140   Establishment and composition
   
32.141   Duties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.001 BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   All board and commission appointments shall be made by the Mayor, and
the appointment confirmed by the Council at the first regular meeting in
January of each year.
   (B)   The term of each appointee shall be established and stated at the time
of his or her appointment, and terms of present board and commission members
may be reestablished and changed so as to give effect to this section.
   (C)   New appointees shall assume office on January 1, December 31 being the
date of expiration of terms. Provided, however, that all appointees to boards
and commissions shall hold office until their successor is appointed and
qualified.
   (D)   All vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as for an expired
term, but the appointment shall be only for the unexpired term. No appointed
board or commission member shall be an employee of the city except those who
are members by virtue of their office.
   (E)   All members shall be residents of the city unless granted a special
exemption by the City Council.
   (F)   The Chairperson and Secretary shall be chosen from and by the board or
commission membership annually to serve for one year.
   (G)   Any board or commission member may be removed by the Council for
misfeasance, malfeasance or nonfeasance in office and his or her position
filled as any other vacancy.
   (H)   Unexcused absence from three consecutive board or commission meetings
(whether regular or special) held at least 20 days apart shall be prima facie
evidence of official neglect and the Chairperson shall forthwith report same to
the Council for its consideration. Excuse can only be granted by the Council
for serious illness of the member, or a member of his or her family or some
equally valid reason.
   (I)   Each Board and Commission shall hold its regular meetings at a time
established and approved by the Council.
   (J)   A majority of the voting members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business, and a majority of those present and voting shall carry
any issue.
   (K)   Except as otherwise provided by statute or other provisions of the
city code, the provisions of this section shall apply to all boards and
commissions.
(Prior Code, § 2.40)
LIBRARY BOARD
§ 32.015 ESTABLISHMENT AND COMPOSITION.
   (A)   A Library Board composed of seven members is hereby established for
the purpose of management and operation of the city library.
   (B)   Board members shall serve staggered three-year terms. Notwithstanding
any provision in this chapter requiring board and commission members to be city
residents, two of the seven members who shall be appointed to this Board may be
county residents not residing in the city.
   (C)   In addition to the membership of this Board, a Council member shall be
appointed to serve for one year in the ex officio capacity without voting
privileges.
(Prior Code, § 2.42, Subd. 1) (Ord. 114, effective 4-12-1991)
§ 32.016 POWERS.
   The powers of the Library Board are as follows:
   (A)   To be solely responsible for the selection, purchase and public
offering of any and all books, magazines, pamphlets, media and other materials
of whatever kind and nature. Any questions or complaints regarding these
matters shall be referred to and resolved by the Library Board;
   (B)   To be solely responsible for the employment of the library staff,
including the librarian;
   (C)   To be solely responsible for the care, maintenance and upkeep of the
interior library building and the equipment located therein; and
   (D)   To be solely responsible for the operation of the library, including
the setting of library hours, establishing library use, fine schedules and
other matters incidental to the efficient operation of the library.
(Prior Code, § 2.42, Subd. 2)
§ 32.017 DUTIES.
   The duties of the Library Board are as follows:
   (A)   To advise in the preparation of the budget, approve it and determine
that adequate funds are provided to finance the approved budget;
   (B)   To transmit to the City Administrator a proposed budget for the
operation of the city library at a date set by the City Administrator each year
for the ensuing year. Upon adoption of the budget, the Board shall be solely
responsible for the implementation of the budget, including the authorization
of all expenditures;
   (C)   To determine the policy of the library and develop the highest
possible degree of operating efficiency in the library;
   (D)   To select and appoint a competent administrator or librarian;
   (E)   To supervise and maintain buildings, through the librarian, as well as
regularly review various physical and building needs to see that they meet the
requirements of the total library program;
   (F)   To study and support legislation which will bring about the greatest
good to the greatest number of libraries; and
   (G)   To cooperate with other public officials and boards and maintain vital
public relations.
(Prior Code, § 2.42, Subd. 3)
§ 32.018 REVENUE AND EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   All revenues shall be turned over to the City Administrator, deposited
in the municipal treasury credited to the Library Fund and budget, kept
separate from other monies of the city and paid out only upon itemized vouchers
approved by the Library Board. All memorials and donations of whatever kind and
nature, however, given to the library shall be held separate from the budget
monies, deposited by the City Administrator into the Library Fund and utilized
for those purposes as expressed by the donor or as determined by the Library
Board. The monies in the Library Fund will be carried over from year to year.
   (B)   At each monthly Board meeting, the Library Director shall prepare and
present an itemized listing of all outstanding library bills. Upon approval by
the Board for payment, the City Administrator shall issue drafts in payment of
same within five working days of receipt of the authorization.
   (C)   The City Administrator shall post each item of expenditure onto the
budget under the appropriate line item, and thereby keep a current record of
the status of expenditures under the budget as the fiscal year progresses.
(Prior Code, § 2.42, Subd. 4)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS AND APPEALS
§ 32.030 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS AND APPEALS.
   The Council shall act as the Board of Adjustments and Appeals under the
provisions of
Chapter 152.
(Prior Code, § 2.43)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.045 ESTABLISHMENT AND COMPOSITION.
   (A)   A Planning Commission is hereby established.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall consist of five members. Three members
shall be residents of the city and shall be appointed by the Mayor and Council
to serve three-year staggered terms. Two members shall be members of the
Council and shall be appointed by the Mayor and Council to serve one- year
terms. The Mayor and Council may also appoint one alternate member, either a
Council member or a resident of the city, to serve when any other member of the
Planning Commission is unable to attend a meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2.44, Subd. 1) (Ord. 380, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 32.046 ORGANIZATION, MEETINGS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The Commission shall elect a Chairperson from among its appointed
members for a term of one year; and the Commission may create and fill other
offices as it may determine. The City Administrator or assignee shall act as
Secretary of the Planning Commission.
   (B)   As necessary, the Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting
each month. It shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions and
findings, which record shall be a public record. Annually, the Commission shall
submit to the Council a report of its work during the preceding year.
Expenditures of the Commission shall be within amounts appropriated for the
purpose by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.44, Subd. 2) (Ord. 380, passed 11-2-2021)
CANNON VALLEY TRAIL BOARD
§ 32.060 CANNON VALLEY TRAIL BOARD.
   The Cannon Valley Trail Board is provided for in
Chapter 99 of the city code.
(Prior Code, § 2.45)
TREE BOARD
§ 32.075 ESTABLISHMENT AND COMPOSITION.
   (A)   A Tree Board is hereby established which shall be composed of five
members, residents and citizens of the city, who shall be appointed annually.
   (B)   The Council may, in lieu of appointing a separate Tree Board, assign
its duties to the Public Works Commission.
   (C)   The Public Works Director shall be an ex officio member of the Board
and the City Forester shall serve as administrative staff to the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2.46, Subd. 1)
§ 32.076 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board shall study, investigate, counsel, develop and administer a
written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal
or disposition of trees and shrubs, in parks, along streets and in other public
areas. The plans shall be presented to the Council, and following the review
and approval by the Council shall constitute the official tree plan for the
city. The Board, when requested by the Council, shall consider, investigate,
make findings, report and recommend upon any special matter or question coming
within the scope of its work.
   (B)   The Board shall have the following specific powers and duties:
      (1)   Determine and establish rules and regulations for the conduct of
the Board as the members deem advisable. Provided, however, that the rules and
regulations shall not be in conflict with this subchapter or other city code
provisions, state or federal law;
      (2)   Recommend the adoption of rules, regulations and city code
provisions which it shall from time to time deem in the public interest, as
most likely to enhance and beautify the urban forest, and for the purposes of
carrying out this subchapter;
      (3)   Recommend the broad matters of policy regarding the planting,
maintenance and removal of trees and other vegetation on city property;
      (4)   Recommend policies for the review and approval of projects on
private property where open space and/or landscaping is required as a condition
for the development, and recommend policies for the enforcement of approved
plans;
      (5)   Assist the City Forester in encouraging landscaping installation
and maintenance on private property by providing information on the value of
landscaping and on the proper planting and care of trees and other vegetation;
      (6)   Assist the City Forester in promoting appreciation of trees and the
urban forest through an annual Arbor Day observance and other activities;
      (7)   Review those portions of the city budget allocated for the planting
and care of trees and other vegetation, and advise the Council on the
appropriateness of the funding levels; and
      (8)   In all instances, serve as an advocate of the city's urban forest.
(Prior Code, § 2.46, Subd. 2)
§ 32.077 CITY FORESTER.
   (A)   Establishment. The position of City Forester is hereby established.
The Council may, in its sole discretion, assign the duties of City Forester to
the Public Works Director.
   (B)   Duties. The City Forester may recommend, and the Board may adopt,
additional regulations to be known as the urban forestry standards and
specifications proper and necessary to effectuate the urban forest management
plan within the city providing reasonable guidance for planting and maintaining
public trees. These rules and regulations may not be in conflict with any other
law or city code provision.
(Prior Code, § 2.46, Subd. 3) (Ord. 147, effective 7-1-1994)
POLICE COMMISSION
§ 32.095 ESTABLISHMENT AND COMPOSITION.
   (A)   A Police Commission of the City of Cannon Falls is hereby established.
   (B)   Membership. The Board shall be composed of six members total, all
appointed by the City Council. The membership includes three Cannon Falls
residents, two members of the City Council and the Mayor.
(Ord. 370, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 32.096 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Police Commission duties are as follows:
      (1)   Recommend the hire of Police Chief and officers;
      (2)   Assist the Council in planning and research in the area of police
matters, including budget, equipment, manpower, inter-governmental cooperation,
and public information programs;
      (3)   Take under advisement, study, hold meetings and make their written
recommendations to the Mayor/City Council on all other police or police related
matters referred to them by staff or City Council;
      (4)   The Commission shall not have jurisdiction over the employment,
promotion, discharge, or suspension of Police Department employees.
   (B)   Members shall serve on staggered three-year terms.
   (C)   Police Commission will meet quarterly or as needed.
(Ord. 370, passed 10-20-2020)
CABLE COMMISSION
§ 32.110 ESTABLISHMENT AND COMPOSITION.
   (A)   A Cable Commission of the City of Cannon Falls is hereby established.
   (B)   Membership. The Commission shall be composed of five members total,
all appointed by the City Council. The membership includes one Cannon Falls
resident, two members of the City Council, Cable Director and the City
Administrator.
(Ord. 371, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 32.111 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Cable Commission duties are as follows:
      (1)   Oversee and provide advisement to the cable department;
      (2)   Be the liaison to City Council for current activities;
      (3)   Oversee cable franchise administration and renewal proceedings;
      (4)   Make recommendations to the City Council on department budget,
personnel and equipment purchases.
   (B)   Cable Commission will meet as needed.
(Ord. 371, passed 10-20-2020)
FINANCE COMMITTEE
§ 32.120 ESTABLISHMENT AND COMPOSITION.
   (A)   A Finance Committee of the City of Cannon Falls is hereby established.
   (B)   Membership. The Committee shall be composed of three members total,
all appointed by the City Council. The membership includes two members of the
City Council and the Mayor.
(Ord. 372, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 32.121 DUTIES.
   The Finance Committee duties are as follows:
   (A)   Finance Committee will provide input, direction and guidance to the
City Council and staff relating to:
      (1)   The annual budget;
      (2)   Utility rates and charges;
      (3)   Labor contracts and negotiating strategies;
      (4)   Capital planning and equipment needs;
      (5)   Infrastructure financing plans;
      (6)   Tax levy and revenue sources;
      (7)   Employee compensation and benefit programs;
      (8)   Debt financing and financial plans;
      (9)   Professional service contracts;
      (10)   Other financial matters as may be referred by City Council.
   (B)   Finance Committee will meet quarterly or as needed.
(Ord. 372, passed 10-20-2020)
PUBLIC WORKS COMMISSION
§ 32.130 ESTABLISHMENT AND COMPOSITION.
   (A)   A Public Works Commission of the City of Cannon Falls is hereby
established.
   (B)   Membership. The Commission shall be composed of three members total,
all appointed by the City Council. The membership includes two members of the
City Council and one resident of the city.
(Ord. 373, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 32.131 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Public Works Commission duties are as follows:
      (1)   Oversee and make recommendations to the City Council on projects in
the streets, storm water, sewer and water departments;
      (2)   Make recommendations to the City Council on the department budget,
personnel, and equipment purchases;
      (3)   Be in an advisory position to the City Council.
   (B)   Shall meet monthly or as needed.
(Ord. 373, passed 10-20-2020)
PARK ADVISORY BOARD
§ 32.140 ESTABLISHMENT AND COMPOSITION.
   (A)   A Park Advisory Board of the City of Cannon Falls is hereby
established.
   (B)   Membership. The Board shall be composed of five members total, all
appointed by the City Council. The membership includes four Cannon Falls
residents and one member of the City Council.
(Ord. 369, passed 9-1-2020)
§ 32.141 DUTIES.
   The Park Board's duties are as follows:
   (A)   To act in an advisory capacity to the City Council regarding park
ordinances.
   (B)   To make recommendations regarding development and maintenance of all
parks.
   (C)   To work in an advisory capacity in the formulation of a budget, to
include operation, maintenance, acquisition, and development of parks and
recreational programs.
(Ord. 369, passed 9-1-2020)
CHAPTER 33: CITY POLICIES
Section
Disposal of Abandoned Motor Vehicles
   
33.001   Definitions
   
33.002   Custody
   
33.003   Sale; waiting periods
   
33.004   Notice
   
33.005   Right to reclaim
   
33.006   Auction or sale
   
33.007   Operator's deficiency claim
   
33.008   Disposal of vehicles
   
33.009   Contracts and disposal
Disposal of Unclaimed Property
   
33.020   Definition
   
33.021   Preliminary notice
   
33.022   Notice and sale
   
33.023   Funds and claims thereon
Disposal of Excess Property
   
33.035   Declaration of surplus and authorizing sale of property
   
33.036   Surplus property with a total estimated value of less than $100
   
33.037   Surplus property with a total estimated value between $100 and $500
   
33.038   Surplus property with a total estimated value over $500
   
33.039   Receipts from sales of surplus property
Persons Who May Not Purchase; Exception
   
33.050   Generally
Emergency Management
   
33.065   Statute adopted
   
33.066   Policy and purpose
   
33.067   Definitions
   
33.068   Establishment of an emergency management agency
   
33.069   Emergency preparedness plan
   
33.070   Powers and duties of Director
   
33.071   Local emergencies
   
33.072   Emergency regulations
   
33.073   Emergency management a government function
   
33.074   Participation in labor disputes or politics
Background Checks
   
33.085   Computerized criminal history and driver's license background checks
DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 33.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle as defined in M.S. Chapter 169, as
it may be amended from time to time, that has remained for a period of more
than 48 hours on public property illegally or lacking vital component parts, or
has remained for a period of more than 48 hours on private property without the
consent of the person in control of the property, or in an inoperable condition
that it has no substantial potential further use consistent with its usual
function unless it is kept in an enclosed garage or storage building. It shall
also mean a motor vehicle voluntarily surrendered by its owner to and accepted
by the city. A classic car or pioneer car, as defined in M.S. Chapter 168, as
it may be amended from time to time, shall not be considered an ABANDONED MOTOR
VEHICLE within the meaning of this subchapter. Vehicles on the premises of junk
yards or automobile graveyards, which are licensed and maintained in accordance
with the city code, shall not be considered ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES within the
meaning of this subchapter.
   JUNK VEHICLE. A vehicle that is extensively damaged, with the damage
including things such as broken or missing wheels, motor, drive train or
transmission, is apparently inoperable and does not have a valid, current
registration plate.
   UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE. A vehicle that is subject to removal and impoundment
pursuant to the state statutes but is not a junk vehicle or abandoned vehicle.
   VITAL COMPONENT PARTS. Those parts of a motor vehicle that are essential to
the mechanical functioning of the vehicle, including, but not limited to, the
motor, drive train and wheels.
(Prior Code, § 2.60, Subd. 1A)
§ 33.002 CUSTODY.
   The city may take into custody and impound any abandoned or junk motor
vehicle or any unauthorized vehicle as provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 2.60, Subd. 1B)
§ 33.003 SALE; WAITING PERIODS.
   (A)   An impounded vehicle is eligible for disposal or sale 15 days after
notice to the owner if the vehicle is determined to be a junk vehicle, except
that it may have a valid, current registration plate and still be eligible for
disposal or sale; or an abandoned motor vehicle.
   (B)   An impounded vehicle is eligible for disposal or sale 45 days after
notice to the owner if the vehicle is determined to be an unauthorized vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 2.60, Subd. 1C) (Ord. 164, effective 12-29-1995)
§ 33.004 NOTICE.
   (A)   When an impounded vehicle is taken into custody, the city or impound
lot operator shall give notice of the taking within five days. The notice shall
set forth the date and place of the taking, the year, make, model and serial
number of the abandoned motor vehicle, if the information can be reasonably
obtained, and the place where the vehicle is being held, shall inform the owner
and any lien holders of their right to reclaim the vehicle under §
33.005 of this subchapter, and shall state that failure of the owner or lien
holder to exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle and contents within the
appropriate time allowed under statute shall be deemed a waiver by them of all
rights, title and interest in the vehicle and a consent to the transfer of
title to and disposal or sale of the vehicle and contents pursuant to §
33.006 of this subchapter.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by mail to the registered owner, if any, of
the impounded motor vehicle and to all readily identifiable lien holders of
record. This information shall be made available to impound lot operators for
notification purposes. If it is impossible to determine with reasonable
certainty the identity and address of the registered owner and all lien
holders, the notice shall be published once in the official newspaper where the
motor vehicle was towed from or abandoned. Published notices may be grouped
together for convenience and economy. If an unauthorized vehicle remains
unclaimed after 30 days from the date the notice was sent, a second notice
shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the registered
owner, if any, of the unauthorized vehicle and to all readily identifiable lien
holders of record.
(Prior Code, § 2.60, Subd. 1D) (Ord. 180, effective 2-20-1998)
§ 33.005 RIGHT TO RECLAIM.
   (A)   The owner or any lien holder of an impounded motor vehicle shall have
the right to reclaim the vehicle from the city or impound lot upon payment of
all towing and storage charges resulting from taking the vehicle into custody
within 15 or 45 days as applicable under this subchapter after the date of the
notice required by this subchapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair any lien of a
garage keeper under the laws of this state, or the right of the lien holder to
foreclose.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, GARAGE KEEPER is an operator of a
parking place or establishment, an operator of a motor vehicle storage facility
or an operator of an establishment for the servicing, repair or maintenance of
motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 2.60, Subd. 1E)
§ 33.006 AUCTION OR SALE.
   (A)   An abandoned or unauthorized motor vehicle and contents taken into
custody by the city or any impound lot and not reclaimed under §
33.005 of this subchapter may be disposed of or sold at auction or sale when
eligible pursuant to §
33.005. The purchaser shall be given a receipt in a form prescribed by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles which shall be sufficient title to dispose of the
vehicle. The receipt shall also entitle the purchaser to register the vehicle
and receive a certificate of title, free and clear of all liens and claims of
ownership. Before a vehicle is issued a new certificate of title, it must
receive a motor vehicle safety check.
   (B)   From the proceeds of the sale of an abandoned or unauthorized motor
vehicle by the city or public impound lot, the city shall reimburse itself for
the cost of towing, preserving and storing the vehicle, and all administrative,
notice and publication costs incurred pursuant to this section. Any remainder
from the proceeds of a sale shall be held for the owner of the vehicle or
entitled lien holder for 90 days and then shall be deposited in the General
Fund of the city.
   (C)   The operator of a nonpublic impound lot may retain any proceeds from a
sale derived from a sale conducted under the authority of this subchapter. The
operator may retain all proceeds from the sale of any personal belongings and
contents in the vehicle that were not claimed by the owner or the owner's agent
before the sale; except that any suspected contraband or other items that
likely would be subject to forfeiture in a criminal trial must be turned over
to the appropriate law enforcement agency.
(Prior Code, § 2.60, Subd. 1F)
§ 33.007 OPERATOR'S DEFICIENCY CLAIM.
   The nonpublic impound lot operator has a deficiency claim against the
registered owner of the vehicle for the reasonable costs of services provided
in the towing, storage and inspection of the vehicle minus the proceeds of the
sale or auction. The claim for storage costs may not exceed the cost of 25
days' storage for an abandoned or junk vehicle and 55 days' storage for a
vehicle determined to be an unauthorized vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 2.60, Subd. 1G)
§ 33.008 DISPOSAL OF VEHICLES.
   Where no bid has been received for an abandoned or junk motor vehicle, the
city may dispose of it in accordance with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2.60, Subd. 1H)
§ 33.009 CONTRACTS AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The city may contract with any qualified person for collection,
storage, incineration, volume reduction, transportation or other services
necessary to prepare abandoned motor vehicles and other scrap metal for
recycling or other methods of disposal.
   (B)   Where the city enters into a contract with a person duly licensed by
the State Pollution Control Agency, the Agency shall review the contract to
determine whether it conforms to the Agency’s plan for solid waste disposal. A
contract that does so conform may be approved by the Agency. Where a contract
has been approved, the Agency may reimburse the city for the costs incurred
under the contract which have not been reimbursed.
   (C)   If the city utilizes its own equipment and personnel for disposal of
the abandoned motor vehicle, it shall be entitled to reimbursement for the cost
thereof along with its other costs as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 2.60, Subd. 1I)
DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
§ 33.020 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED PROPERTY. Tangible or intangible property that has lawfully come
into the possession of the city in the course of municipal operations, remains
unclaimed by the owner and has been in the possession of the city for at least
60 days and has been declared such by a resolution of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.60, Subd. 2A)
§ 33.021 PRELIMINARY NOTICE.
   If the City Administrator knows the identity and whereabouts of the owner,
he or she shall serve written notice upon him or her at least 30 days prior to
a declaration of abandonment by the Council. If the city acquired possession
from a prior holder, the identity and whereabouts of whom are known by the City
Administrator notice shall also be served upon him or her. The notice shall
describe the property and state that unless it is claimed and proof of
ownership, or entitlement to possession established, the matter of declaring it
abandoned property will be brought to the attention of the Council after the
expiration of 30 days from the date of the notice.
(Prior Code, § 2.60, Subd. 2B)
§ 33.022 NOTICE AND SALE.
   (A)   Upon adoption of a resolution declaring certain property to be
abandoned property, the City Administrator shall publish a notice thereof
describing the same, together with the names (if known) and addresses (if
known) of prior owners and holders thereof, and including a brief description
of the property.
   (B)   The text of the notice shall also state the time, place and manner of
sale of all property, except cash and negotiables.
   (C)   The notice shall be published once in a legal newspaper at least ten
days prior to the sale.
   (D)   Sale shall be made to the highest bidder at public auction or sale or
by a nonprofit organization with a significant mission of community service in
a private sale in the manner authorized by statute.
(Prior Code, § 2.60, Subd. 2C)
§ 33.023 FUNDS AND CLAIMS THEREON.
   (A)   Expenses shall be paid from the proceeds of the sale; the balance of
the proceeds shall be paid into the General Fund of the city if the property
was disposed of by a public auction or sale; or in the case of a private sale,
to the nonprofit organization authorized to conduct the sale.
   (B)   The former owner, if he or she makes claim within six months from the
date of publication of the notice herein provided, and upon application and
satisfactory proof of ownership, may be paid the amount of cash or negotiables
or, in the case of property sold, the amount received therefor, less a pro
rated share of the expenses of storage, publication of notice and safe
expenses, but without interest.
(Prior Code, § 2.60, Subd. 2D) (Ord. 164, effective 12-29-1995)
DISPOSAL OF EXCESS PROPERTY
§ 33.035 DECLARATION OF SURPLUS AND AUTHORIZING SALE OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   The City Administrator may, from time to time, recommend to the
Council that certain personal property (chattels) owned by the city is no
longer needed for a municipal purpose and should be sold.
   (B)   By action of the Council, the property shall be declared surplus, the
value estimated and the City Administrator authorized to dispose of the
property in the manner stated herein.
(Prior Code, § 2.60, Subd. 3A)
§ 33.036 SURPLUS PROPERTY WITH A TOTAL ESTIMATED VALUE OF LESS THAN $100.
   The City Administrator may sell surplus property with a total value of less
than $100 through negotiated sale.
(Prior Code, § 2.60, Subd. 3B)
§ 33.037 SURPLUS PROPERTY WITH A TOTAL ESTIMATED VALUE BETWEEN $100 AND $500.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall offer for public sale, to the highest
bidder, surplus property with a total estimated value of from $100 to $500.
   (B)   Notice of public sale shall be given stating time and place of sale
and generally describing the property to be sold at least ten days prior to the
date of sale either by publication once in the official newspaper, or by
posting in a conspicuous place in the City Hall at the City Administrator's
option.
   (C)   The sale shall be by auction.
(Prior Code, § 2.60, Subd. 3C)
§ 33.038 SURPLUS PROPERTY WITH A TOTAL ESTIMATED VALUE OVER $500.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall offer for public sale, to the highest
bidder, surplus property with a total estimated value over $500.
   (B)   Notice of the public sale shall be given stating time and place of
sale and generally describing property to be sold at least ten days prior to
the date of sale by publication once in the official newspaper.
   (C)   The sale shall be to the person submitting the highest bid.
(Prior Code, § 2.60, Subd. 3D)
§ 33.039 RECEIPTS FROM SALES OF SURPLUS PROPERTY.
   All receipts from sales of surplus property under this subchapter shall be
placed in the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 2.60, Subd. 3E)
PERSONS WHO MAY NOT PURCHASE; EXCEPTION
§ 33.050 GENERALLY.
   (A)   (1)   No employee of the city who is a member of the administrative
staff, department head, a member of the Council or an advisor serving the city
in a professional capacity, may be a purchaser of property under §§
33.001 through
33.009,
33.020 through
33.023 and
33.035 through
33.039.
      (2)   Other city employees may be purchasers if they are not directly
involved in the sale, if they are the highest responsible bidder, and if at
least one week's published or posted notice of sale is given.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to be a purchaser of property under §§
33.001 through
33.009,
33.020 through
33.023 and
33.035 through
33.039 if the purchase is prohibited by the terms of §§
33.001 through
33.009,
33.020 through
33.023 and
33.035 through
33.039.
(Prior Code, § 2.60, Subd. 4)
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 33.065 STATUTE ADOPTED.
   The "Minnesota Emergency Management Act of 1996," M.S. Chapter 12, as it may
be amended from time to time, insofar as it relates to cities, is hereby
adopted by reference as part of this subchapter, as fully as if set forth
explicitly herein.
(Prior Code, § 2.14, Subd. 1)
§ 33.066 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in order
to ensure that preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with those
disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to protect the
public peace, health and safety, and to preserve the lives and property of the
people of this city, it is hereby found and declared to be necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters;
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and other
political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions; and
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
§ 33.067 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT includes those activities sometimes referred to as "civil defense"
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city-level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 33.068 ESTABLISHMENT OF AN EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY.
   There is hereby created within the city government an emergency management
organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director shall be
appointed by the City Council for an indefinite term and may be removed by the
Council at any time. The Director shall serve with a salary as established by
the City Council and shall be paid his or her necessary expenses. The Director
shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration and
operation of the emergency preparedness organization, subject to the direction
and control of the Council. The emergency management organization shall conform
to and be consistent with, where applicable, all state and federal
requirements, including the National Incident Management System framework found
at 44 C.F.R. part 201, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 2.14, Subd. 2)
§ 33.069 EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS PLAN.
   The Council may, by resolution, adopt, from time to time amend, or repeal an
emergency preparedness plan for the city.
(Prior Code, § 2.14, Subd. 3) (Ord. 180, effective 2-20-1998)
§ 33.070 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director shall represent the city on any regional or state
conference for emergency management. The Director shall develop proposed mutual
aid agreements with other political subdivisions of the state for reciprocal
emergency management aid and assistance in an emergency too great to be dealt
with unassisted, and shall present these agreements to the Council for its
action. These arrangements shall be consistent with the State Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for the
emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty
of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may
be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the
emergency management activities of the city to the end that they shall be
consistent and fully integrated with the emergency plans of the federal
government and the state and correlated with emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the State and City Emergency Plan, the Director
shall institute training programs, public information programs and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the City Emergency Plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to the
maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city departments
and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate with and
extend services and facilities to the city's emergency management organization
and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or agency in
cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning and
programming of those emergency activities as will involve the utilization of
the facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that
emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency operational capability in the several services as
provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 33.071 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three days
except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order, or proclamation
declaring, continuing or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City
Administrator.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.072 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary, to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations,
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting: the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance and safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health,
fire and safety regulations, drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training, and all other matters which are required to protect
public safety, health and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the office of the City Administrator. A copy
shall be kept posted and available for public inspection during business hours.
Notice of the existence of these regulations and their availability for
inspection at the City Administrator's office shall be conspicuously posted at
the front of the city hall or other headquarters of the city or at other places
in the affected area as the Council shall designate in the resolution. By
resolution, the Council may modify or rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time. If
not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after
its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule or regulation inconsistent with an
emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions of M.S.
§ 12.37, as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding any
statutory or Charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council,
acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster. The city may exercise these powers in
the light of the exigencies of the disaster without compliance with the time-
consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the
performance of public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of
supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies, and the appropriation and
expenditure of public funds, including, but not limited to, publication of
resolutions, publication of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and
rules, provisions relating to low bids and requirement for bids.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.073 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he or she would
otherwise be entitled under this resolution or under the worker's compensation
law, or under any pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any
benefits or compensation under any act of Congress.
§ 33.074 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The emergency management organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
BACKGROUND CHECKS
§ 33.085 COMPUTERIZED CRIMINAL HISTORY AND DRIVER'S LICENSE BACKGROUND CHECKS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to authorize the City Police
Department to conduct computerized criminal history and driver's license
history background checks. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
preclude the city from conducting comprehensive background investigations,
including, but not limited to, accessing public data through other automated
and non-automated sources and contacting references, of applicants for city
employment or volunteer positions or for city permits, licenses or other
approvals. Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude the city from
periodically conducting a driver's license inquiry upon employees or volunteers
where possession of a valid driver's license is an essential qualification of
the position.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COMPUTERIZED CRIMINAL HISTORY. Criminal histories obtained through the
State Bureau of Criminal Apprehension's computerized criminal history system.
      DRIVER'S LICENSE HISTORY. A listing of driver's license violations
recorded by the State Department of Public Safety.
   (C)   Authorization. The City Police Department is authorized to conduct
computerized criminal histories and driver's license histories on applicants
for city employment, city volunteer positions and for city permits, licenses or
other city approvals. In addition, computerized criminal histories and driver's
license histories may be conducted for schools, employers, landlords and
nonprofit corporations as permitted by state law. Before any investigation is
undertaken, the subject of the investigation must authorize the Police
Department in writing to undertake computerized criminal history and driver's
license history checks. Applicants for city employment, city volunteer
positions and for city permits, licenses or other city approvals must authorize
the release of the information obtained to the City Council, City Administrator
and other city staff as appropriate. Should the city reject an application due,
partially or solely, to the applicant's prior conviction of a crime, the City
Administrator shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
      (1)   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
      (2)   The applicable complaint and grievance procedure set forth in M.S.
§ 364.06, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (3)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for employment; and
      (D)   All competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered upon
reapplication.
(Prior Code, § 2.65)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCES
Section
   
34.01   Trust or escrow account for fire or explosion losses
§ 34.01 TRUST OR ESCROW ACCOUNT FOR FIRE OR EXPLOSION LOSSES.
   The city may establish a trust or escrow account to hold proceeds from
losses arising from fire or explosion of insured real property located within
the city. The city may utilize these funds to secure, repair or demolish
damaged or destroyed structures and clear the property in question, so that the
structure and property are in compliance with local code requirements and
applicable city code provisions. Any unused portion of the retained proceeds
shall be returned to the insured. In addition, the regulatory and procedural
provisions of M.S. § 65A.50, Trust or Escrow Accounts; Insured Real Property
Fire or Explosion Loss Proceeds, as it may be amended from time to time, are
hereby incorporated herein and adopted by reference, including the penalty
provision thereof.
(Prior Code, § 2.64) (Ord. 164, effective 12-29-1995)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
51.   RULES AND REGULATIONS RELATING TO MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
         
52.   WATER SERVICE
         
53.   SEWERAGE SERVICE
         
54.   STORMWATER UTILITY
         
55.   RECYCLABLES
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Fixing rates and charges for municipal utilities
   
50.03   Fixing rates and charges for public utilities
   
50.04   Contractual contents
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPANY, GRANTEE AND FRANCHISEE. Any public utility system to which a
franchise has been granted by the city.
   CONSUMER and CUSTOMER. Any user of a utility.
   METER. A device that records cubic feet of water used.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY. Any city-owned utility system, including, but not by way
of limitation, water, sewerage and refuse service.
   SERVICE. Providing a particular utility to a customer or consumer.
   UTILITY. All utility services, whether the same be public city-owned
facilities or furnished by public utility companies.
(Prior Code, § 3.01) (Ord. 175, effective 6-20-1997)
§ 50.02 FIXING RATES AND CHARGES FOR MUNICIPAL UTILITIES.
   (A)   All rates and charges for municipal utilities, including, but not by
way of limitation, rates for service, permit fees, connection and meter testing
and reading fees and deposits, disconnection fees, reconnection fees including
penalties for non-payment if any, shall be fixed, determined and amended by the
Council and adopted by resolution. No resolution shall be adopted before a
public hearing has been held thereon. Notice of the public hearing shall be
published once at least ten days prior thereto. Notice of adoption of the
resolution shall be published at least 30 days prior to the effective date
thereof. The resolution, containing the effective date thereof, shall be kept
on file and open to inspection in the office of the City Administrator and
shall be uniformly enforced.
   (B)   The city should annually audit the municipal utilities user charge
system to determine charges are proportionate among the various classes of
users and that adequate revenue is generated to cover operation, maintenance
and replacement costs. Where charges are found to be excessive from a
particular user class, the rates shall be adjusted accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 3.02) (Ord. 56, effective 6-28-1985)
§ 50.03 FIXING RATES AND CHARGES FOR PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   All rates and charges for public utility franchisees, not regulated by an
agency of the state, shall be fixed and determined by the Council and adopted
by ordinance. Upon adoption the rates and charges shall become provisions of
this title. Public utility company rates and charges may be fixed and
determined by the respective franchisees in compliance with this section, as
follows.
   (A)   No rate or charge involving an increase thereof shall become effective
until approved by the Council. To request an increase the franchisee shall
prepare its written petition setting forth the then current and proposed rates
and charges, the effective date of the proposed increases (which may not be
within 90 days of filing the petition), and the reason or reasons necessitating
the proposed increase or increases. The petition shall be filed with the
Council by serving the same on the City Administrator in person or by certified
mail, return receipt requested.
   (B)   Within 30 days of filing the Council shall adopt a resolution and
serve the same upon the resident superintendent of the franchisee in like
manner as the petition may be served either approving the proposed increases or
ordering a hearing thereon to be held within 60 days thereof. If no action is
taken by the Council, the increase or increases shall take effect on the date
stated in the franchisee's petition as though approved by the Council.
   (C)   Prior to the hearing date, the franchisee shall, without delay, comply
with the city's reasonable requests for examination and copying of all books,
records, documents and other information relating to the subject matter of the
petition. Should the franchisee unreasonably delay, fail or refuse the
requests, the same shall be grounds for a continuance of the hearing date.
   (D)   Notice of hearing shall be in the form and manner stated in the
resolution. At the hearing all persons wishing to be heard thereon shall be
afforded a reasonable opportunity. Findings and a decision shall be made by the
Council within 15 days after the hearing and served upon the franchisee.
(Prior Code, § 3.03)
§ 50.04 CONTRACTUAL CONTENTS.
   Provisions of this title relating to municipal utilities shall constitute
portions of the contract between the city and all consumers of municipal
utility services, and every consumer shall be deemed to assent to the same. All
contracts between franchisees and consumers of utility services other than
municipal shall be in strict accord with the provisions of this title.
(Prior Code, § 3.04)
CHAPTER 51: RULES AND REGULATIONS RELATING TO MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
Section
   
51.01   Billing, payment and delinquency
   
51.02   Application, connection and sale of service
   
51.03   Discontinuance of service
   
51.04   Ownership of municipal utilities
   
51.05   Right of entry
   
51.06   Meter test
   
51.07   Unlawful acts
   
51.08   Municipal utility services and charges a lien
   
51.09   Damage to municipal utility equipment
   
51.10   Municipal utility service outside the city
   
51.11   Water meters
   
51.12   Connection or tapping prohibited; delinquent assessments or charges
   
51.13   Connection charges
   
51.14   Mandatory connection to public systems
§ 51.01 BILLING, PAYMENT AND DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All municipal utilities shall be billed monthly and a utility
statement or statements sent to each consumer.
   (B)   All utilities charges shall be delinquent if they are unpaid within 21
days of the date of billing. Interest, penalties and an administrative charge
on delinquent accounts shall be established by Council resolution. The city
shall endeavor to collect delinquent accounts promptly. Delinquent accounts may
be submitted at any time for collection of the delinquent amounts against the
respective properties served. The roll shall be delivered quarterly to the
Council for certification to the County Auditor for collection along with
taxes. The action shall be discretionary and may be in lieu of or in addition
to any other action to collect delinquent accounts.
(Prior Code, § 3.05, Subd. 1) (Ord. 203, effective 10-15-1999)
§ 51.02 APPLICATION, CONNECTION AND SALE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Application for municipal utility services shall be made upon forms
supplied by the city, and strictly in accordance therewith.
   (B)   No connection shall be made until consent has been received from the
city to make the same.
   (C)   All municipal utilities shall be sold and delivered to consumers under
the then applicable rate applied to the amount of the utilities taken as
metered or ascertained in connection with the rates.
(Prior Code, § 3.05, Subd. 2)
§ 51.03 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   All municipal utilities may be shut off or discontinued whenever it is found
that:
   (A)   The owner or occupant of the premises served, or any person working on
any connection with the municipal utility systems, has violated any requirement
of the city code relative thereto, or any connection therewith;
   (B)   Any charge for a municipal utility service, or any other financial
obligation imposed on the present owner or occupant of the premises served, is
unpaid after due notice thereof; or
   (C)   There is fraud or misrepresentation by the owner or occupant in
connection with any application for service or delivery or charges therefor.
(Prior Code, § 3.05, Subd. 3)
§ 51.04 OWNERSHIP OF MUNICIPAL UTILITIES.
   (A)   Ownership of all municipal utilities, plants, lines, extensions and
appurtenances thereto, shall be and remain in the city and no person shall own
any part or portion thereof.
   (B)   Provided, however, that private facilities and appurtenances
constructed on private property are not intended to be included in municipal
ownership.
(Prior Code, § 3.05, Subd. 4)
§ 51.05 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The city has the right to enter in and upon private property, including
buildings and dwelling houses, in or upon which is installed a municipal
utility, or connection therewith, at all times reasonable under the
circumstances, in accordance with §
10.20, for the purpose of reading utility meters, for the purpose of inspection
and repair of meters or a utility system, or any part thereof, and for the
purpose of connecting and disconnecting service.
(Prior Code, § 3.05, Subd. 5)
§ 51.06 METER TEST.
   Whenever a consumer shall request the city to test any utility meter in use
by him or her, a request shall be accompanied by a cash deposit for each meter
to be tested. If any meter is found to be inaccurate the same shall be replaced
with an accurate meter and the deposit thereon refunded. If the meter shall be
found to be accurate in its recordings or calculations it shall be reinstalled
and the deposit shall be retained by the city to defray the cost of the test.
(Prior Code, § 3.05, Subd. 6)
§ 51.07 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, mar, deface, disturb or in any way interfere with any buildings,
attachments, machinery, apparatus, equipment, fixture or appurtenance of any
municipal utility or municipal utility system, or commit any act tending to
obstruct or impair the use of any municipal utility.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to make any connection with, opening
into, use or alter in any way any municipal utility system without first having
applied for and received written permission to do so from the city.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to turn on or connect a utility when the
same has been turned off or disconnected by the city for non-payment of a bill,
or for any other reason, without first having obtained a permit to do so from
the city.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to "jumper" or by any means or device
fully or partially circumvent a municipal utility meter, or to knowingly use or
consume unmetered utilities or use the services of any utility system, the use
of which the proper billing authorities have no knowledge.
(Prior Code, § 3.05, Subd. 7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.08 MUNICIPAL UTILITY SERVICES AND CHARGES A LIEN.
   (A)   Payment for all municipal utility (as that term is defined in §
50.01) service and charges shall be the primary responsibility of the fee owner
of the premises served and shall be billed to the owner unless otherwise
contracted for and authorized in writing by the fee owner and any other person
(such as a tenant, contract purchaser, manager and the like), as agent for the
fee owner, and consented to by the city. If the utility service and charges are
for a single metered multi-unit rental residential building, the owner of the
building shall be the customer of record and this responsibility shall not be
waived by contract or otherwise. The city may collect the same in a civil
action or, in the alternative and at the option of the city, as otherwise
provided in this section.
   (B)   Each account is hereby made a lien upon the premises served.
Delinquent accounts may be submitted at any time for collection of the
delinquent amounts against the respective properties served as set forth in
division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 3.05, Subd. 8) (Ord. 165, effective 12-29-1995; Ord. 203,
effective 10-15-1999)
§ 51.09 DAMAGE TO MUNICIPAL UTILITY EQUIPMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to intentionally cause any damage to any
municipal utility equipment or appurtenance, including, but not limited to,
meters, street lights, water hydrants and curb cocks. Anyone intentionally
causing damage shall pay the reasonable value thereof to the city, including
labor for renewal and installation of any equipment and shall be, in effect, an
insuror of any equipment in his or her possession or with which he or she comes
in contact.
(Prior Code, § 3.05, Subd. 9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.10 MUNICIPAL UTILITY SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY.
   Premises located outside the city shall not be connected to or served by any
municipal utility, except premises as are publicly owned or presently served.
Persons needing municipal utility service whose property is located outside the
corporate limits must initiate and complete annexation proceedings in advance
prior to being provided with the service or services.
(Prior Code, § 3.05, Subd. 10)
§ 51.11 WATER METERS.
   (A)   Charges. A charge shall be made to property owners or account holders
of multiple-family dwelling structures with two or more units or commercial,
industrial or institutional structures for all new or replacement water meters,
and payment for meters shall be made in advance before delivery for
installation. The charge will be the actual cost to the city of supplying the
meter.
   (B)   Maintenance and repair. The city shall maintain and repair all meters
when rendered unserviceable through ordinary wear and tear. However, when
replacement, repair or adjustment of any meter is rendered necessary by the
act, neglect or carelessness of the owner or occupant of any premises, any
expense caused the city thereby shall be charged against and collected from the
owner or occupant of the premises. Water service may be discontinued until the
cause is corrected and the charge collected.
   (C)   City property. All water meters are and shall remain the property of
the city, and may be replaced or changed by the city whenever deemed necessary.
(Prior Code, § 3.05, Subd. 11) (Ord. 175, effective 6-20-1997)
§ 51.12 CONNECTION OR TAPPING PROHIBITED; DELINQUENT ASSESSMENTS OR CHARGES.
   No permit shall be granted to tap or connect with sewer or water mains when
any assessment or connection charge for the sewer or water main against the
property to be connected is in default or delinquent. If the assessment or
connection charges are payable in installments, no permit shall be granted
unless all installments then due and payable have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 3.06)
§ 51.13 CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   Before connecting to the city water or sewer system, city sewer and
water connection charges based on the number of "units" shall be paid. If,
after the initial connection charges are paid, additional building permits or
new sewer and water connections are made, the charges shall be recalculated and
any additional charges shall be paid. The city connection charge per unit and
area charge shall be established by City Council resolution.
   (B)   The number of units shall be computed as follows.
      (1)   The following types of residential housing each comprise one unit
per dwelling unit:
         (a)   Single-family houses: a single-dwelling unit;
         (b)   Townhouses: a multi-dwelling with potential for laundry
facilities included in each unit; and
         (c)   Duplex units, apartments and condominiums: a multi-dwelling with
potential for laundry facilities included in each unit.
      (2)   Apartments and condominiums shall each comprise 80% of a unit if
there is no plumbing for laundry facilities within each dwelling unit.
      (3)   Mobile homes shall each comprise 100% of a unit.
      (4)   Other buildings and structures shall be assigned one water unit for
each 548 gallons per day of water usage and one sewer unit for each 274 gallons
per day of sewage flow which it is estimated they will discharge. Commercial
and industrial building units shall be assigned a minimum of one unit. The most
recent Standard Criteria published by the Metropolitan Waste Control Commission
will be used as a guideline for determining the number of units for various
commercial, industrial and institutional facilities.
      (5)   Multi-dwelling public housing units and multi-dwelling housing
units subsidized under any government program for low-and-moderate-income
housing shall be counted as 75% of the unit equivalent for that type of housing
if there is no garbage disposal and dishwasher. The 75% rate applies to the
townhouses rate when laundry facilities or hookups are included in each unit,
or the 80% apartment rate if laundry hookups are not included in each unit.
(Prior Code, § 3.07) (Ord. 172, effective 3-22-1996; Ord. 264, passed 8-17-
2006)
§ 51.14 MANDATORY CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SYSTEMS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to install a private water system or a
private sewer system in the city.
   (B)   Within 12 months after the public sanitary sewer system or water
system is extended to serve property, all property served by private water and
sewer systems must connect to public sewer and water. If private utilities
fail, create a nuisance or become a health hazard, the connection to the public
system must be made without delay. When a connection is made to the public
sewer and water system, private utilities must be disabled in accordance with
State Department of Health and State Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) rules.
(Prior Code, § 3.08) (Ord. 204, effective 2-25-2000; Ord. 280, passed 6-5-2008)
CHAPTER 52: WATER SERVICE
Section
   
52.01   Deficiency of water and shutting off water
   
52.02   Repair of leaks
   
52.03   Abandoned services
   
52.04   Service pipes
   
52.05   Private water supplies
   
52.06   Restricted hours for sprinkling
   
52.07   Private fire hose connections
   
52.08   Opening hydrants
   
52.09   Unmetered service
   
52.10   Code requirement
   
52.11   Lateral connection charges
   
52.12   Trunk hook-up charges
   
52.13   Nonessential water usage
§ 52.01 DEFICIENCY OF WATER AND SHUTTING OFF WATER.
   The city is not liable for any deficiency or failure in the supply of water
to customers whether occasioned by shutting the water off for the purpose of
making repairs or connections or by any other cause whatever. In case of fire,
or alarm of fire, water may be shut off to ensure a supply for firefighting. In
making repairs or construction of new works, water may be shut off at any time
and kept off so long as may be necessary.
(Prior Code, § 3.10, Subd. 1)
§ 52.02 REPAIR OF LEAKS.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of the consumer or owner to maintain the
service pipe from the main into the house or other building.
   (B)   In case of failure upon the part of any consumer or owner to repair
any leak occurring in his or her service pipe within 24 hours after oral or
written notice has been given the owner or occupant of the premises, the water
may be shut off and will not be turned on until a reconnection charge has been
paid and the water service has been repaired.
   (C)   When the waste of water is great or when damage is likely to result
from the leak, the water will be turned off if the repair is not proceeded with
immediately.
(Prior Code, § 3.10, Subd. 2) (Ord. 49, effective 1-4-1985)
§ 52.03 ABANDONED SERVICES.
   All service installations connected to the water system that have been
abandoned or, for any reason, have become useless for further service shall be
disconnected at the main. The owner of the premises, served by this service,
shall pay the cost of the excavation. The city shall perform the actual
disconnection and all pipe and appurtenances removed from the street right-of-
way shall become the property of the city. When new buildings are erected on
the site of old ones, and it is desired to increase the old water service, a
new permit shall be taken out and the regular tapping charge shall be made as
if this were a new service. It is unlawful for any person to cause or allow any
service pipe to be hammered or squeezed together at the ends to stop the flow
of water, or to save expense in improperly removing the pipe from the main.
Also, improper disposition thereof shall be corrected by the city and the cost
incurred shall be borne by the person causing or allowing the work to be
performed.
(Prior Code, § 3.10, Subd. 3)
§ 52.04 SERVICE PIPES.
   Every service pipe must be laid in a manner as to prevent rupture by
settlement. The service pipe shall be placed below the surface and in all cases
so arranged as to prevent rupture and stoppage by freezing. Frozen service
pipes between the main and the building shall be the responsibility of the
owner. Service pipes must extend from the curb stops to the inside of the
building; or if not taken into a building then to the hydrant or other fixtures
which they are intended to supply. A valve, the same size as the service pipe,
shall be placed close to the inside wall of the building, ahead of the meter
and well protected from freezing. Joints on copper tubing shall be flared and
kept to a minimum. Not more than one joint shall be used for a service up to 70
feet in length. All joints shall be left uncovered until inspected. Minimum
size connection with the water mains shall be one inch in diameter.
(Prior Code, § 3.10, Subd. 4)
§ 52.05 PRIVATE WATER SUPPLIES.
   No water pipe of the city water system shall be connected with any pump,
well, pipe, tank or any device that is connected with any other source of water
supply and when such are found, the city shall notify the owner or occupant to
disconnect the same and, if not immediately done, the city water shall be
turned off. Before any new connections to the city system are permitted, the
city shall ascertain that no cross connections will exist when the new
connection is made. When a building is connected to city water, the private
water supply may be used only for irrigation purposes. A permit must be
obtained from the city prior to using the water for irrigation. Private
utilities must meet all requirements as outlined by the State Pollution Control
Agency (MPCA) and the State Department of Health including all permit
requirements. Private utilities are not authorized in the public right-of-way.
This is exclusive of the service line rules that are found in the city code.
(Prior Code, § 3.10, Subd. 5) (Ord. 280, passed 6-5-2008)
§ 52.06 RESTRICTED HOURS FOR SPRINKLING.
   Whenever the city shall determine that a shortage of water threatens the
city, it may limit the times and hours during which water may be used from the
city water system for lawn and garden sprinkling, irrigation, car washing, air
conditioning and other uses, or either or any of them. It is unlawful for any
water consumer to cause or permit water to be used in violation of the
determination after public announcement thereof has been made through the news
media specifically indicating the restrictions thereof.
(Prior Code, § 3.10, Subd. 6)
§ 52.07 PRIVATE FIRE HOSE CONNECTIONS.
   Owners of structures with self-contained fire protection systems may apply
for and obtain permission to connect the street mains with hydrants, large
pipes and hose couplings, for use in case of fire only, at their own
installation expense and rates as the Council may adopt by resolution as herein
provided.
(Prior Code, § 3.10, Subd. 7)
§ 52.08 OPENING HYDRANTS.
   It is unlawful for any person, other than members of the Fire Department or
other person duly authorized by the city, in pursuance of lawful purpose, to
open any fire hydrant or attempt to draw water from the same or in any manner
interfere therewith. It is also unlawful for any person so authorized to
deliver or suffer to be delivered to any other person any hydrant key or
wrench, except for the purposes strictly pertaining to their lawful use.
(Prior Code, § 3.10, Subd. 8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.09 UNMETERED SERVICE.
   Unmetered service may be provided for construction, flooding skating rinks
and any other purpose. The service shall be at a duly adopted rate. Where it is
difficult or impossible to accurately measure the amount of water taken,
unmetered service may be provided and the unmetered rate applied; provided,
however, that by acceptance thereof the consumer agrees to have the city
estimate the water used. In so estimating the city shall consider the use to
which the water is put and the length of time of unmetered service.
(Prior Code, § 3.10, Subd. 9)
§ 52.10 CODE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   All piping, connections and appurtenances shall be installed and
performed strictly in accordance with the State Plumbing Code.
   (B)   Failure to install or maintain the same in accordance therewith, or
failure to have or permit required inspections shall, upon discovery by the
city, be an additional ground for termination of water service to any consumer.
(Prior Code, § 3.10, Subd. 10)
§ 52.11 LATERAL CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   Lateral connection charges. No permit shall be issued to tap or
connect with any watermain of the city either directly or indirectly from any
lot or tract of land unless the City Clerk shall have certified:
      (1)   That the lot or tract of land, or portion of said lot or tract, to
be served by such connection to tap has been assessed for the cost of
construction of the watermain with which the connection is made; or
      (2)   If no assessment has been levied for said construction cost, that
proceedings for levying such assessment have been or will be commenced in due
course; or
      (3)   If no assessment has been levied, and no assessment proceedings
will be completed in due course, that a sum equal to the portion of cost of
constructing said watermain has been paid to the city as a lateral connection
fee. The amount of the charge shall be automatically adjusted each year on
January 1 to reflect construction cost changes in the local Minneapolis region
as evidenced by the Engineering News-Record Construction Cost Index.
   (B)   Upon written request of the owner of the benefited property showing
good cause, the City Council may provide that the lateral connection charge be
specially assessed against the benefited property payable in semiannual
installments for a term of eight years at an interest rate set by the City
Council. Unless deferred payment is so authorized, all connection charges shall
be payable in full prior to the issuance of a building permit.
(Prior Code, § 3.10, Subd. 11) (Ord. 325, passed 12-4-2012)
§ 52.12 TRUNK HOOK-UP CHARGES.
   (A)   In addition to the lateral connection charges set forth herein, a
trunk hook-up charge, unless charged as a part of a public improvement project,
shall be imposed against each lot or tract of land, or portion thereof, served
by the system for wells, pumping stations, water storage facilities, equipment
of the city water system, and the replacement of existing water facilities. The
amount of this charge shall be automatically adjusted each year on January 1 to
reflect construction cost changes to the local Minneapolis region as evidenced
by the Engineering News-Record Construction Cost Index.
   (B)   The number of unit trunk hook-up charges to be levied against each
benefited lot or tract of land, portion thereof, shall be established using the
following criteria:
      (1)   Single-family houses, townhouses, condominiums, mobile homes and
duplex units shall each comprise one unit for each dwelling unit;
      (2)   Other buildings and structures shall be assigned one water trunk
hook-up charge (unit) based upon estimated usage.
   (C)   The number of unit trunk hook-up charges to be levied against the
premises may thereafter be revised based upon actual use.
   (D)   Upon written request of the owner of the benefited premises showing
good cause, the water trunk hook-up charge may be specially assessed against
the benefited property payable in semiannual installments over a four-year
period at eight percent interest. Unless deferred payment is so authorized, all
trunk hook-up charges shall be payable in full prior to the issuance of a
building permit for new construction on the property.
(Ord. 325, passed 12-4-2012)
§ 52.13 NONESSENTIAL WATER USAGE.
   (A)   Purpose. This section establishes water conservation restrictions; and
the plan will be in effect at any time the governor declares by executive order
a critical water deficiency, pursuant to M.S. § 103G.291.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DEPARTMENT. The City Public Works department.
      EMERGENCY. The declaration of a critical water deficiency by the
governor.
      IRRIGATION. The watering of shrubs, trees, sod, seeded areas, gardens,
lawns, or any other outdoor vegetation, except outdoor vegetation utilized for
agricultural purposes.
      NOTIFICATION TO PUBLIC. Notification through local media, including
interviews and issuance of news releases.
      RECLAIMED WATER. Water collected from rooftops, paved surfaces, or other
collection devices and all water utilized more than once before re-entering the
natural water cycle.
      WATER RECIRCULATION SYSTEM. Any system which enables a user to reuse
water at least once prior to returning the water to the natural water cycle.
   (C)   Application.
      (1)   No person shall make, cause, use, or permit the use of water
received from the city for residential, commercial, industrial, governmental,
or any other purpose in any manner contrary to any provision in this section.
      (2)   Mandatory emergency conservation measures shall be implemented
based upon the declaration of a critical water emergency by the governor.
   (D)   Declaration of critical water deficiency. Upon the declaration of a
critical water deficiency by the governor, the city shall immediately post
notice of the emergency declaration at the usual meeting place of the City
Council, or the official city bulletin board. The city shall provide
notification to the public as quickly as possible or through established water
supply plans emergency response plans or procedures.
   (E)   Mandatory emergency water conservation measures. Upon declaration of a
water emergency and notification to the public, the following mandatory
restrictions upon nonessential water use shall be enforced:
      (1)   Outdoor irrigation of yards, gardens, golf courses, parklands, and
other non-agricultural land, except for those areas irrigated with reclaimed
water, is prohibited.
      (2)   Washing or spraying of sidewalks, driveways, parking areas, tennis
courts, patios, or other paved areas with water from any pressurized source,
including garden hoses, except to alleviate immediate health or safety hazards,
is prohibited.
      (3)   The outdoor use of any water-based play apparatus connected to a
pressurized source is prohibited.
      (4)   Restaurants and other food service establishments are prohibited
from serving water to their customers, unless water is specifically requested
by the customer.
      (5)   Operation of outdoor misting systems used to cool public areas is
prohibited.
      (6)   The filling of swimming pools, fountains, spas, or other exterior
water features is prohibited.
      (7)   The washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, and other types of
mobile equipment is prohibited, except at facilities equipped with wash water
recirculation systems, and for vehicles requiring frequent washing to protect
public health, safety, and welfare.
   (F)   Variances. The City administrator or the Administrator’s designee is
authorized to grant variances to this section where strict application of its
provisions would result in serious hardship to a customer. A variance may be
granted only for reasons involving health or safety. An applicant may appeal
the denial of a variance within five days of the decision by submitting a
written appeal to the City Clerk. The City Council shall hear the appeal at the
next City Council meeting. The decision of the City Council is final.
   (G)   Violation.
      (1)   Violations shall be determined and cited by the City Administrator
or the Administrator’s designee. A violator may appeal the citation within five
(5) days of its issuance by submitting a written appeal to the City. The City
Council shall hear the appeal at the next City Council meeting. The decision of
the City Council is final. Violators may be granted an administrative waiver if
evidence is provided that equipment failure was the cause of the violation. A
letter from a qualified vendor or equipment invoice will be required to show
proof of equipment failure.
      (2)   Upon discovery of a first violation, the violator shall be issued,
either personally or by mail, a warning letter that sets forth the violation
and which shall describe the remedy and fines for future violations.
      (3)   Upon subsequent violations at the same location, the violator shall
be issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets forth the
violation and shall describe the remedy.
      (4)   Fines shall be added to the monthly water bill of the owner or
current occupant of the premises where the violation occurred. The imposition
of the fine shall in no way limit the right of the city to pursue other legal
remedies.
   (H)   Enforcement. The City Administrator or the Administrator’s designee is
authorized to designate city employees or law enforcement personnel to enforce
the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 358, passed 3-20-2018)
CHAPTER 53: SEWERAGE SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Purpose and regulations
   
53.02   Definitions
Wastewater Discharge and Use of Sewers
   
53.15   Wastewater discharge to natural outlet
   
53.16   Discharge of unpolluted water to public sewers
   
53.17   Prohibited discharge
   
53.18   Dilution
   
53.19   Special provisions regarding unusual waters
   
53.20   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
53.21   Pretreatment
   
53.22   Slug or accidental discharge
Permits and Special User Requirements
   
53.35   Sewer connection permit required
   
53.36   Maintenance and ownership of private sewer pipes and facilities
   
53.37   Industrial discharge permits
   
53.38   Industrial user reports
   
53.39   Monitoring requirements and facilities
   
53.40   Inspection of user's facilities
   
53.41   Civil action
   
53.42   Lateral connection charges
   
53.43   Trunk hook-up charges
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 PURPOSE AND REGULATIONS.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the use of municipal sewers,
protect the ground water, streams and other waters from the introduction of
inadequately treated waste and to prevent or control the introduction of
pollutants into the wastewater disposal system which will interfere with the
operation of the system, the use or disposal of the sludge or will pass through
the system inadequately treated into receiving waters or the atmosphere or
otherwise be incompatible with the system. This chapter shall apply to all
users.
(Prior Code, § 3.20, Subd. 1)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act also referred to as the Clean
Water Act, as amended, 33. U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   BOD5 or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The charge related to the principal and interest
necessary to pay bonded indebtedness of facilities owned or operated by the
city. The DEBT SERVICE CHARGE includes a debt service connection charge and a
debt service user charge.
   EPA. Environmental Protection Agency.
   GENERAL MUNICIPAL USER. Any user discharging sewage to the general municipal
flow other than industrial users, municipalities and other contract users. This
category of user includes as sub-categories: domestic users; commercial users;
institutional users; and governmental users, which are not contract users.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any entity which discharges to the city's wastewater
treatment system, solid, liquid or gaseous wastes resulting from the process
employed in industrial or manufacturing processes, or from the development of
any natural resource.
   MPCA. Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued by the MPCA, setting limits on pollutants that a permittee may legally
discharge into a river or stream.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers,
which overflow into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface
water or ground water.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or during which the only pollutant
added, is heat.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater that is primarily introduced by
residential users with a BOD5 concentration not greater than 170 mg/l and a
suspended solids (TSS) concentration not greater than 175 mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS (O & M COSTS). The expenses related to the
costs of the operation, maintenance, replacement and administration of the city
facilities.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
terms of grams per liter of solution.
   POTW. Publicly owned treatment works.
   PRETREATMENT. The process of reducing the amount of pollutants, eliminating
pollutants or altering the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater to a
less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing
pollutants into the city's wastewater disposal system. The reduction,
elimination or alteration may be obtained by physical, chemical or biological
processes, process changes or other means, except by dilution.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. Costs related to the expenditures for obtaining and
installing equipment, accessories or appurtenances which are necessary to
maintain the capacity and performance during the useful life of the city
facilities for which the facilities were designed and constructed. The term
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes replacement.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only wastewater from general
municipal users and industrial plants together with minor quantities of ground,
storm and surface waters which are not admitted intentionally.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The aggregate of all the charges including the user
charge, debt service charges and other sewer related charges that are billed
periodically to users of the city facilities.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user of the city's wastewater disposal
system which:
      (1)   Has a disposal flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has flow greater than 5% of the flow in the city's wastewater
disposal system;
      (3)   Has in its wastes toxic pollutants as defined pursuant to 33 U.S.C.
§ 1317 or state statutes and rules; or
      (4)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on the wastewater disposal system, the quality
of sludge, the system's effluent quality or air emissions generated by the
system.
   SLUG. A discharge of any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants
(BOD and the like) released in a discharge of a volume or strength as to cause
inhibition or disruption of the POTW's sewer system or treatment or to cause
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by means described in the POTWs
sludge management plan. A SLUG DISCHARGE from a significant industrial user may
be quantitatively defined to relate to plant inhibition in its discharge
permit.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (SDS) PERMIT. Any permit (including any terms,
conditions and requirements thereof) issued by the MPCA pursuant to M.S. §
115.07, as it may be amended from time to time, for a disposal system as
defined by M.S. § 115.01, Subdivision 8, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer intended to carry stormwater,
surface runoff, ground water, drainage and unpolluted water from any source.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Utilities Superintendent or a deputy, agent or
representative thereof.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition, and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   USER. Any person who discharges or causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the city's wastewater disposal system.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of city facilities for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement of the facilities.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and institutions,
together with any ground water, surface water and stormwater that may be
present, whether treated or untreated, which is discharged into or permitted to
enter the city's wastewater disposal system.
(Prior Code, § 3.20, Subd. 2)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE AND USE OF SEWERS
§ 53.15 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE TO NATURAL OUTLET.
   It is unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet any wastewater or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this subchapter of the city's NPDES/
SDS permit.
(Prior Code, § 3.20, Subd. 3A)
§ 53.16 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATER TO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   It is unlawful for any person to discharge, or cause to be discharged, any
unpolluted water such as stormwater, ground water, roof runoff, surface
drainage or non-contact cooling water to any sanitary sewer. Stormwater and all
other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to sewers as are specifically
designed as storm sewers or to a natural outlet approved by the city and other
regulatory agencies. It is unlawful to connect the sources of unpolluted
drainage to any sanitary sewer. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged to a storm sewer or natural outlet on approval of the
city and upon approval and the issuance of a discharge permit by the MPCA.
(Prior Code, § 3.20, Subd. 3B) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.17 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE.
   It is unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be discharged any of
the following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater disposal system or to the operation of the system. Prohibited
materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha,
benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides,
hydrides, sulfides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides and radioactive
wastes;
   (B)   Solid or viscous substances which will cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as, but not limited to, oils, wax or fats in excess of 100 mg/
l, garbage with particles greater than one-half inch in any dimension, animal
guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair or fleshings, entrails, whole
blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal,
glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste
paper, wood, plastic, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of
fuel or lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing wastes;
   (C)   Any wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 or greater than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structure, equipment and personnel of the wastewater disposal system;
   (D)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater disposal
system. A toxic pollutant shall include but not be limited to any pollutant
identified pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a);
   (E)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (65.6°C), or
causing, individually or in combination with other wastewater, the influent at
the wastewater treatment plant to have a temperature exceeding 104°F (40°C), or
having heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the wastewater
treatment works resulting in interference therein;
   (F)   Any quantities of flow, concentrations or both which constitute a slug
as defined in §
53.02;
   (G)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either singly
or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public nuisance
or hazard to life, or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers for their
maintenance and repair;
   (H)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the treatment
process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions; and
   (I)   Any waters or wastes containing the following substances to a degree
that any material received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater
treatment works in excess of the following limits for these materials.
Arsenic                                                         0.1 mg/l
Cadmium                                                         0.08 mg/l
Chloroform                                                      1.0 mg/l
Copper                                                          0.7 mg/l
Cyanide                                                         2.5 mg/l
Lead                                                            1.0 mg/l
Mercury                                                         0.05 mg/l
Nickel                                                          4.1 mg/l
Phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by city's wastewater 0.36 mg/l
treatment system
Silver                                                          0.85 mg/l
Total chromium                                                  7.0 mg/l
Zinc                                                            4.2 mg/l
 
(Prior Code, § 3.20, Subd. 3C)
§ 53.18 DILUTION.
   It is unlawful for any user to increase the use of process water, or in any
manner, attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in this
section, or contained in the National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or any
state requirements.
(Prior Code, § 3.20, Subd. 3D) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.19 SPECIAL PROVISIONS REGARDING UNUSUAL WATERS.
   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to
the public sewers which contain substances or possess the characteristics
enumerated in this chapter, and/or which in the judgment of the city, may have
a deleterious effect upon the wastewater treatment facilities, processes or
equipment; receiving waters and/or soil, vegetation and ground water or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city
may:
   (A)   Reject the wastes;
   (B)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1317(b) and addendum thereof;
   (C)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge;
   (D)   Require slug protection from slug or accidental discharges; and/or
   (E)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling, treating and
disposing of wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer service charges.
(Prior Code, § 3.20, Subd. 3E)
§ 53.20 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the city, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, any flammable wastes, sand or
other harmful ingredients; except that the interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of the
type to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 3.20, Subd. 3F)
§ 53.21 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Federal pretreatment standards. Federal pretreatment standards
promulgated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) pursuant
to the Act shall be met by all users which are subject to the standards in any
instance where they are more stringent than the limitations in this section
unless the city had applied for and obtained from the MPCA approval to modify
the specific limits in the federal pretreatment standards. When requested, an
application for modification of the federal pretreatment standards will be
considered for submittal by the city when its wastewater treatment system
achieves consistent removal of the pollutants. CONSISTENT REMOVAL shall mean
reduction in the amount of pollutant or alteration of the nature of a pollutant
which is in the influent to the wastewater treatment system to a less toxic or
harmless state by the time it is discharged in the effluent. The reduction or
alteration will be demonstrated by averaging the lowest 50% of the removals
measured by 12 or more samples according to the procedures set forth in 40
C.F.R. § 403.7(c)(2) of the "General Pretreatment Regulations for Existing and
New Sources of Pollution."
   (B)   State requirements. State requirements and limitations on discharges
shall be met by all users which are subject to those standards in any instance
in which they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this section.
   (C)   Industrial pretreatment requirements. Industrial users shall provide
necessary wastewater pretreatment as required to comply with this section and
shall achieve compliance with all federal categorical pretreatment standards
within the time limitations as specified by the federal pretreatment
regulations. Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a level
acceptable to the city shall be provided, operated and maintained at the user's
expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating
procedures shall be submitted to the city for review at least 60 days before
construction and shall be approved by the city. The city may also require the
industry to submit a schedule of compliance indicating dates by which federal,
state and local pretreatment standards would be achieved. The review of the
plans and operating procedures will in no way relieve the user from the
responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent
acceptable to the city under the provisions of this section. Any subsequent
changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported
to and be acceptable to the city prior to the user's initiation of the changes.
All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall be made
available by the city to officials of the EPA or MPCA upon request.
   (D)   Sludges generated. Sludges, floats, skimmings and the like generated
by an industrial or commercial pretreatment system shall not be placed into the
city's wastewater disposal system. The sludges shall be contained, transported
and disposed of in accordance with all federal, state and local regulations.
Any removal and hauling not done by the owners' own personnel shall be
performed by a licensed waste disposal firm.
(Prior Code, § 3.20, Subd. 3G)
§ 53.22 SLUG OR ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   Sewer users shall notify the city immediately upon having a slug or
accidental discharge or substances or wastewater in violation of this section
in order to enable countermeasures to be taken by the city to minimize damage
to the wastewater disposal system and the receiving waters. Notification will
not relieve users of liability for any expense, loss or damage to the
wastewater disposal system or treatment process, or for any fines imposed on
the city on account thereof under any state or federal law. The city may
suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or a wastewater discharge permit
when the suspension is necessary, in the opinion of the city, in order to stop
an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, to the
environment or to the wastewater disposal system, or would cause the city to
violate any condition of its NPDES or state disposal system permit. Any user
notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service and/or the
wastewater discharge permit shall immediately stop the discharge. In the event
of a failure of the user to comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
city shall take steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the
sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the wastewater disposal
system or endangerment to any individuals. The city shall reinstate the
wastewater discharge permit and/or the wastewater treatment service upon proof
of the elimination of the noncomplying discharge. A detailed written statement
submitted by the user describing the causes of the slug or accidental discharge
and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence shall be submitted to
the city within 15 days of the date of occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 3.20, Subd. 3H)
PERMITS AND SPECIAL USER REQUIREMENTS
§ 53.35 SEWER CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the city. Any new connection(s)
to the sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited unless sufficient capacity is
available in all downstream facilities including, but not limited to, capacity
for flow, BOD5 and suspended solids, as determined by the city. Connections to
the sanitary sewer shall be gas-tight and water-tight to prevent the inclusion
of infiltration/inflow.
(Prior Code, § 3.20, Subd. 4A) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.36 MAINTENANCE AND OWNERSHIP OF PRIVATE SEWER PIPES AND FACILITIES.
   It is the responsibility of the user or owner to maintain the sewer service
pipe from the main into the house, building or other point of initial
collection. All sewer pipes, monitoring facilities, pretreatment facilities and
other private sewer system works shall be installed and maintained in good
operating condition at the user's sole expense.
(Prior Code, § 3.20, Subd. 4B)
§ 53.37 INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   All significant industrial users, or other industrial users which may have a
significant effect as determined by the city, proposing to connect or to
commence a new discharge to the wastewater disposal system shall obtain a
wastewater discharge permit before connecting to or discharging into the
wastewater system. All existing significant industrial users or industrial
users subject to federal pretreatment standards under 33 U.S.C. § 1317(b) and
(c) connected to or discharging into the wastewater disposal system shall
obtain a wastewater discharge permit within 90 days after the effective date of
this section. The permits may limit discharges by volume or wastewater
constituents and may require pretreatment before discharge into the city
system. Industrial users requesting connection to the disposal system shall
complete and file with the city an application in the form prescribed by the
city.
(Prior Code, § 3.20, Subd. 4C)
§ 53.38 INDUSTRIAL USER REPORTS.
   The city may require that any industrial user discharging or proposing to
discharge wastewater into the wastewater disposal system file a periodic
discharge report. The discharge report may include, but not be limited to,
nature of process, rates of flow, mass discharge rate, production quantities,
hours of operation, compliance status with any state or federal pretreatment
standards, or other information which relates to the generation of waste,
including wastewater constituents and characteristics in the wastewater
discharge.
(Prior Code, § 3.20, Subd. 4D)
§ 53.39 MONITORING REQUIREMENTS AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Monitoring facilities. Monitoring facilities to allow inspection,
sampling and flow measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage
systems shall be provided and operated by all significant industrial users or
other industrial users which may have a significant effect as determined by the
city. The monitoring facilities shall be situated on the user's premises. There
shall be ample room in or near the sampling manhole or facility to allow
accurate sampling and compositing of samples for analysis. The facility,
sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and
proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (B)   Testing and analysis. All measurements, tests and analyses of the
characteristics of water and wastes to which reference is made in this section
shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods
for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public
Health Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or
upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the wastewater disposal system to the
point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be performed in
accordance with EPA approved methods contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136 to reflect
the effect of constituents upon the wastewater disposal system and to determine
the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The number, type and
frequency of sampling and laboratory analyses to be performed by the owner
shall be as stipulated by the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.20, Subd. 4E)
§ 53.40 INSPECTION OF USER'S FACILITIES.
   (A)   The city may inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether
the purpose of this section is being met and all requirements are being
complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the city ready access at all reasonable times to all
parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, testing, record examination or in the performance of any of their
duties, with the restriction that the city does not interfere with the user's
operation. The city, MPCA and EPA shall have the right to set up on the user's
property devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance
monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a user has security measures in
force which would require proper identification and clearance before entry into
their premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with any security
guards so that upon presentation of suitable identification, the city, MPCA and
EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing
their specific responsibilities.
   (B)   The city shall have no authority to inquire into any industrial
processes beyond that point in the process having a direct bearing on the kind
and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for treatment.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in divisions (A) and (B) above, city employees shall observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the company.
(Prior Code, § 3.20, Subd. 4F)
§ 53.41 CIVIL ACTION.
   If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes into the
city's wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this section,
federal or state pretreatment requirements or any order of the city, the city
may commence an action for appropriate civil relief.
(Prior Code, § 3.20, Subd. 5)
§ 53.42 LATERAL CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   Lateral connection charges. No permit shall be issued to connect with
the sanitary sewer system of the city either directly or indirectly from any
lot or tract of land unless the city clerk shall have certified:
      (1)   That the lot or tract of land, or portion of the lot or tract, to
be served by such connection has been assessed for the cost of construction of
the sanitary sewer lateral with which the connection is made; or
      (2)   If no assessment has been levied for said construction cost, that
proceedings for levying such assessment have been or will be commenced in due
course; or
      (3)   If no assessment has been levied, and no assessment proceedings
will be completed in due course, that a sum equal to the portion of cost of
constructing said sanitary sewer which would be assessable against said lot or
tract has been paid to the city as a connection fee. The amount of the charge
shall be automatically adjusted each year on January 1 to reflect construction
cost changes for the local Minneapolis region as evidenced by the Engineering
News-Record Construction Cost Index.
   (B)   Upon written request of the owner of the benefited premises showing
good cause, the city council may provide that the connection charge be
specially assessed against the benefited property, payable in semiannual
installments for a term of eight years at an interest rate set by the city
council. Unless deferred payment is so authorized, all connection charges shall
be payable in full prior to the issuance of a building permit.
(Ord. 325, passed 12-4-2012)
§ 53.43 TRUNK HOOK-UP CHARGES.
   (A)   In addition to the lateral connection charges set forth herein, a
trunk hook-up charge, unless charged as a part of public improvement project,
shall be imposed against each lot or tract of land, or portion thereof served
by the sewer system for the sewer treatment facilities, lift stations,
forcemains, trunk sewers, and the replacement of existing sewer facilities. The
amount of this charge shall be automatically adjusted each year on January 1 to
reflect construction cost changes to the local Minneapolis region as evidenced
by the Engineering News-Record Construction Cost Index.
   (B)   The number of unit trunk hook-up charges to be levied against each
benefited lot or tract of land, or portion thereof, shall be established by
using the following criteria:
      (1)   Single-family houses, townhouses, condominiums, mobile homes and
duplex units shall each comprise one unit for each dwelling unit;
      (2)   Other buildings and structures shall be assigned one water trunk
hook-up charge (unit) based upon estimated usage.
   (C)   The number of sewer trunk hook-up charges imposed against the premises
may be revised based upon actual use.
   (D)   Upon written request of the owner of the benefited premises showing
good cause, the sewer trunk hook-up charge may be specially assessed against
the benefited property payable in semiannual installments over a four-year
period at 8% interest. Unless deferred payment is so authorized, all trunk
hook-up charges shall be payable in full prior to the issuance of a building
permit for new construction on the property.
(Ord. 325, passed 12-4-2012)
CHAPTER 54: STORMWATER UTILITY
Section
   
54.01   Stormwater utility and authority
   
54.02   Purpose
   
54.03   Rates and charges
   
54.04   Definitions
   
54.05   Rates and charges
   
54.06   Credits
§ 54.01 STORMWATER UTILITY AND AUTHORITY.
   There is hereby established a public utility to be known as the stormwater
utility for the city. The stormwater utility shall be operated as a public
utility pursuant to the city code and applicable statutes. The revenues shall
be subject to provisions of this section and M.S. § 444.075, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 291, passed 5-7-2009)
§ 54.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a funding mechanism for the
following services:
   (A)   The administration, planning, analysis, installation, operation,
maintenance and replacement of public drainage systems;
   (B)   The administration, planning, implementation, construction and
maintenance of stormwater best management practices (BMPs) to reduce the
introduction of sediment and other pollutants into local water resources;
   (C)   Other education, engineering, inspection, monitoring, testing and
enforcement activities as necessary to maintain compliance with local, state
and federal stormwater requirements; and
   (D)   (1)   Activities necessary to maintain compliance with the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) municipal separate storm sewer
systems (MS4) permit requirements established by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency, including preparation, implementation and
management of a stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) to address the
following control measures:
         (a)   Public education and outreach on stormwater impacts;
         (b)   Public involvement/participation;
         (c)   Illicit discharge detection and elimination;
         (d)   Construction site stormwater runoff control;
         (e)   Post construction runoff control in new development and
redevelopment; and
         (f)   Pollution prevention for municipal operations.
      (2)   The stormwater utility shall be part of the Public Works Department
and shall be administered by the Public Works Director. This chapter shall
apply to the entire city.
(Ord. 291, passed 5-7-2009)
§ 54.03 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Stormwater utility policy and credit policy. In determining charges,
the City Council may establish a stormwater utility policy and credit policy to
specify application fees, exemptions and exceptions, unit areas, residential
equivalency factors and unit rates to charge utility users based upon the
volume or direct runoff estimated to be generated by various land uses within
the city.
   (B)   Minimum or maximum fees. The City Council may establish a minimum or
maximum monthly fee per parcel.
   (C)   Estimated charges. If, for any reason, precise information related to
the use, development or area of a premise is not available; then stormwater
utility charges for the premise shall be estimated, and billed, based upon
information then available to the city.
   (D)   Billing method. Stormwater utility fees will be computed and collected
by the city together with other city utility fees.
   (E)   Delinquent accounts. Delinquent and unpaid stormwater utility fees may
be certified to the County Auditor for collection with real estate taxes during
the following year or any year thereafter pursuant to M.S. § 444.075,
Subdivision 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (F)   Appeal. If a property owner believes that the fee charged to a
particular property is incorrect, he or she may request review and re-
computation of the fee.
(Ord. 291, passed 5-7-2009)
§ 54.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LAND USE. For a given parcel shall be one of eight land use classifications
as shown in the land use table in §
54.05(A) as determined by the City Zoning Officer.
   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL. Land use classification of parcels with four or
more living units.
   RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENCY FACTOR. Referred to herein as "REF," is the ratio of
the accumulated direct runoff generated by a particular land use to the
accumulated direct runoff generated by the residential land use.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL. Land use classification of parcels with three or
less living units.
   SURFACE AREA. Referred to herein as "SA," shall be the area of the parcel in
acres, subject to any standardization, adjustments or exceptions outlined in
this chapter.
   UNIT RATE. Referred to herein as "UR," is the rate in dollars per acre to be
charged per one REF.
(Ord. 291, passed 5-7-2009)
§ 54.05 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Determining the REF.
      (1)   The accumulated direct runoff (Q) used to determine the REFs shall
be calculated based on an evaluation of the land use and application of a
standardized soil type and rainfall event.
      (2)   The calculated direct runoff (Q) shall be based on the runoff
equation in the Soil Conservation Services (SCS) National Engineering Handbook
Section 4 -Hydrology. The equation is as follows:
 
Q = (P-0.2S)2
    P + 0.8S
 
   Where:
   S = (1000/CN)-10
   P = 2.0 inches (Based on a 24-hour two-inch rainfall event)
   CN = Runoff index (Based on the land use and the Natural Resources
Conservation Services (NRCS Type B soils)
   The runoff indices (CN) and REFs for the various land uses within the city
shall be set forth in the table below.
Land Use Runoff Index (CN) REF
Land Use                                    Runoff Index (CN) REF
Single-family residential                   72                1.00
Duplexes, twin homes, townhomes             72                1.00
Multi-family residential                    85                2.72
Municipal                                   88                3.30
Commercial                                  92                4.23
Industrial                                  88                3.30
Institutional: schools, churches, hospitals 88                3.30
Public/government                           92                4.23
 
      (3)   The REF for land uses not list above shall be determined by the
city based on probable hydrologic response.
   (B)   Establishing unit rates. The City Council shall from time to time, by
resolution, establish the unit rate. The unit rate so established shall be on
file with the City Administrator and shall be used to compute the charges for a
given parcel of land based on the following formula:
 
Stormwater Charges = (UR) x (REF) x (SA)
 
   (C)   Standardized charges. The following rules shall apply for all purpose
of simplifying and equalizing charges.
      (1)   A standard surface area of 0.38 acres shall be used for single-
family residential parcels.
      (2)   A standard surface area of 0.38 acres for each unit shall be used
in computing stormwater charges for the following dwellings: duplexes, twin
homes, townhouses and detached townhouses. (For example, a parcel that contains
four townhouse units shall have a surface area computed as follows: 4 units x
0.38 acres/unit = 1.52 acres).
      (3)   Parcels subject to these standardized charges shall not be eligible
for adjustments (credits) to charges or adjustments to area as set forth
elsewhere herein.
   (D)   Adjustments (credits) to charges. The City Council may provide for the
adjustment of charges for parcels or groups of parcels based upon hydrologic
response substantially different from the REF being used for the parcel or for
parcels which employ BMPs or other stormwater management practices on-site that
significantly reduce the quantity or improve the quality of stormwater runoff
from the parcel. The adjustment shall be made only after receiving the
recommendation from the Public Works Director, and shall not be made effective
retroactively. If the adjustment would have the effect of changing the REF for
all or substantially all parcels in a particular land use classification, the
adjustment shall be accomplished by amending the REF table listed in division
(A) above.
   (E)   Adjustment of stormwater utility fees. Stormwater utility fees may be
adjusted under any of the following conditions.
      (1)   Revisions of unit rate. The estimated expenditures for the
management of stormwater shall be reviewed by the City Council. The unit rate
shall be adjusted accordingly to meet the estimated expenditures and will
follow established procedures for adjustment of utility rates.
      (2)   Minimum or maximum fees.
         (a)   The City Council may establish a minimum or maximum monthly fee
per parcel.
         (b)   The minimum fee shall be set equal to the single-family
residential standardized fee.
      (3)   Application for credit. The city may establish a credit policy and
utilize a credit application form for consideration of fee reduction.
      (4)   Change in development condition of parcel. As land is developed
and/or redeveloped the fees will be re-computed based on the revised land use.
   (F)   Adjustment to area. The total parcel area as shown in the City
Assessor's records will be used to calculate the surface area for a given
parcel, except that apparent errors in the recorded values may be subject to
recalculation by the city. It is the responsibility of the owner or manager of
any parcel to provide the city with necessary surveys, and other information as
the city may reasonably request, to determine if a parcel, or portion of a
parcel, qualifies for an exception or area adjustment. Requests for exceptions
and/or area adjustments will be reviewed after receipt of all requested
information. Exceptions and/or adjustments must be approved by the city, and
shall become effective the beginning of the next billing cycle following
approval.
   (G)   Exceptions. The following land uses are exempt from the stormwater
utility fees established herein:
      (1)   Public street right-of-way;
      (2)   Wetlands and public waters as defined by state law;
      (3)   Undeveloped parcels;
      (4)   Publicly-owned park lands, natural areas and recreational fields;
      (5)   Railroad right-of-way; and
      (6)   Cemeteries.
   (H)   Falsification of information. Willful failure to provide information
that the city may reasonably request related to the use, development and area
of a premise, or falsification of information, shall constitute a violation of
the city's stormwater utility regulations.
(Ord. 291, passed 5-7-2009)
§ 54.06 CREDITS.
   (A)   Credits.
      (1)   Stormwater utility fees may be adjusted under the conditions stated
below. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to provide
justification for the fee adjustment.
      (2)   City staff must approve all credit applications. Credits may be
applied for year round. Applications must be received by September 15 to be
applied to the following year's billing. The city may establish a fee for the
review and processing of the SWU credit application.
      (3)   Parcels subject to the standardized charges shall not be eligible
for adjustments to charges or adjustments to area as set forth in the city
regulations.
      (4)   Note that maximum credits are cumulative and cannot exceed 75%.
      (5)   Wetland areas shall be excluded from the total parcel area when
calculating the utility fee. Wetland areas that are shown on the County
National Wetlands Inventory have already been subtracted from the parcel area
assessed for the utility fee.
   (B)   Stormwater quantity reduction and quality improvement credits.
      (1)   If it can be demonstrated that an individual parcel detains
stormwater runoff to the predevelopment rate for a two-, ten- and 100-year
runoff event, that parcel shall be eligible for a 25% stormwater utility fee
reduction.
      (2)   If it can be demonstrated that an individual parcel retains or
infiltrates at least one inch of runoff volume calculated over the entire site
and meets the following requirements, that parcel shall be eligible for a 25%
stormwater utility fee reduction. Retention or infiltration must be done in an
on-site, constructed stormwater management facility and be maintained by the
landowner (with a maintenance agreement). A lesser percentage will be credited
for partial parcel area treatment.
      (3)   Where regional treatment exists and the regional treatment meets
any of the above credit reductions for the total area draining to the regional
treatment, parcels with 75% or more of their runoff directly entering the
regional treatment facility by storm sewer or overland flow, may be eligible
for a 25% credit.
      (4)   Those parcels having facilities constructed specifically for the
purpose of stormwater enhancement, best management practices (BMP), may be
eligible for a credit.
         (a)   Documentation must be provided to the city for evaluation of the
BMP demonstrating the water quantity reduction or water quality improvement. It
is required that the documentation be prepared by a licensed professional
engineer of the state and provide the necessary drawings and calculations to
support the stormwater benefit. It is the applicant's responsibility to prove
the benefit.
         (b)   The following are some examples of best management practices:
            1.   Stormwater retention and detention ponds;
            2.   Wet or dry swales;
            3.   Filter strips;
            4.   Infiltration trenches or ponds;
            5.   Underground storage or filters;
            6.   Sand filters;
            7.   Soak away pits;
            8.   Green roof;
            9.   Pervious pavers; and
            10.   Dry wells.
   (C)   Land use credits.
      (1)   Reduction of monthly charge. Parcels with green space or vacant
land meeting all of the following criteria may be granted up to a 50% reduction
from the monthly charge. The credit shall be calculated based on the percentage
of the total parcel eligible.
      (2)   Criteria.
         (a)   Green/vacant space shall be pervious, continuously vegetated
areas incorporated into the developed parcel.
         (b)   The property must comply with other city ordinances such as
mowing and nuisance or noxious weed ordinances.
         (c)   The space shall not have more than 25% impacted, compacted
soils. Examples of impacted spaces are trails and compacted gravel areas.
         (d)   The green/vacant space must be at least 10% of the total parcel.
         (e)   The eligible green/vacant space must have a separation of at
least ten feet from any impervious surface.
(Ord. 291, passed 5-7-2009)
CHAPTER 55: RECYCLABLES
Section
   
55.01   Definitions
   
55.02   Purpose
   
55.03   Mandatory recycling
   
55.04   Nonprofit organizations
   
55.05   Recyclable material containers
   
55.06   Location of containers
   
55.07   Scavenging prohibited
   
55.08   Fees
§ 55.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTION. The aggregation of targeted recyclables from the place at which
they are generated and includes all activities up to the time the targeted
recyclables are delivered to a recycling facility.
   PERSON. Includes any owner or occupant of a residential dwelling unit, or
the owner or manager of a multiple dwelling.
   RECYCLABLES. Materials which can be separated from the mixed municipal solid
waste stream for collection and preparation for reuse in their original form,
or for other use in manufacturing processes that do not cause the destruction
of the recyclable materials in a manner that precludes further use.
   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING. Any building used for residential purposes consisting
of one or more dwelling units with individual kitchen facilities for each.
   TARGETED RECYCLABLES. Aluminum and bi-metal beverage containers, brown,
clear or green glass, newsprint, corrugated cardboard, tin cans, plastic
containers or other materials that may be designated by resolution of the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 3.21, Subd. 1) (Ord. 118, effective 9-27-1991)
§ 55.02 PURPOSE.
   It is the intention of the Council by means of this chapter to establish a
system of complete, regular collection of targeted recyclables throughout the
city, to lessen negative impact on the environment and ease the burden on
existing sanitary landfills.
(Prior Code, § 3.21, Subd. 2) (Ord. 118, effective 9-27-1991)
§ 55.03 MANDATORY RECYCLING.
   (A)   Disposal. All persons must dispose of targeted recyclables as provided
in this chapter. It is unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to make
provision for and secure disposal of targeted recyclables as provided in this
chapter.
   (B)   Residential dwellings. Each household in a residential dwelling must
place targeted recyclables at curbside at designated times for collection by
the hauler designated by the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.21, Subd. 3) (Ord. 118, effective 9-27-1991)
§ 55.04 NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   Nonprofit organizations may collect targeted recyclables at a
collection site without a license.
   (B)   Collection at residential dwellings is not allowed.
(Prior Code, § 3.21, Subd. 4) (Ord. 118, effective 9-27-1991)
§ 55.05 RECYCLABLE MATERIAL CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Targeted recyclables must be placed in recyclable material containers
for collection.
   (B)   Targeted recyclables may be mixed in one or more containers.
   (C)   Recyclable material containers furnished by the city are owned by the
city and must remain with the premises when the occupant moves or vacates the
premises.
   (D)   Recyclable material containers must be used only for storage of
targeted recyclables.
(Prior Code, § 3.21, Subd. 5) (Ord. 118, effective 9-27-1991)
§ 55.06 LOCATION OF CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Recyclable material containers must be stored indoors, or in side or
rear yards and must be fully screened from neighboring properties and public
streets.
   (B)   The containers must be placed at curbside at designated collection
times, and promptly returned to storage after collection.
(Prior Code, § 3.21, Subd. 6) (Ord. 118, effective 9-27-1991)
§ 55.07 SCAVENGING PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to scavenge, collect or otherwise remove
targeted recyclables after placement for collection without a license from the
city.
(Prior Code, § 3.21, Subd. 7) (Ord. 118, effective 9-27-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 55.08 FEES.
   (A)   Each household in a residential dwelling will be charged a per month
fee for collection of targeted recyclables as set by resolution of the City
Council.
   (B)   The fee may be changed from time to time by resolution of the Council.
   (C)   The fee will be added to the household's billing for city utilities,
and will be due and payable with the utility statement.
   (D)   Utility statements will be processed and collected as provided in
Chapter 51 to the extent authorized by law.
(Prior Code, § 3.21, Subd. 8) (Ord. 118, effective 9-27-1991)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
73.   BICYCLE REGULATIONS
         
74.   SKATEBOARDS AND ROLLERSKATES
         
75.   SNOWMOBILES AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
         
76.   WINTER PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Application of title
   
70.02   Scope and orders of officers
   
70.03   Traffic and parking control
   
70.04   Load limits
§ 70.01 APPLICATION OF TITLE.
   (A)   The provisions of this title applicable to the drivers of vehicles
upon the streets shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles including, but not
limited to, those owned or operated by the United States, this state or any
county, city, town, district or any other political subdivision of the state,
subject to specific exemptions as may be set forth in those regulations.
   (B)   (1)   Every person riding a bicycle or an animal or driving any animal
drawing a vehicle upon a roadway shall be subject to the provisions of this
title applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which by
their nature can have no application.
      (2)   Provisions specifically referring to bicycles shall be in addition
to other provisions of these chapters applying to vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 7.01)
§ 70.02 SCOPE AND ORDERS OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this title relate exclusively to the streets,
alleys and private roads in the city, and the operation and parking of vehicles
refer exclusively to the operation and parking of vehicles upon streets, alleys
and private roads.
   (B)   Orders of a police officer. It is a misdemeanor for any person to
willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of any
police officer invested by law with authority to direct, control or regulate
traffic.
(Prior Code, § 7.02)
§ 70.03 TRAFFIC AND PARKING CONTROL.
   (A)   Council action. No device, sign or signal shall be erected or
maintained for traffic or parking control unless the Council shall first have
approved and, by motion, directed the same, except as otherwise provided in
this title; provided, that when traffic and parking control is marked or sign-
posted, the marking or sign-posting shall attest to Council action thereon.
   (B)   Temporarily restricting or directing traffic and parking; curb
painting.
      (1)   (a)   When clearly marked, barricaded or sign-posted, traffic and
parking may be temporarily restricted for any public or private use.
         (b)   All restrictions shall be in accordance with the uniform policy
promulgated by the city, acting through the Public Works Director, who shall be
ultimately responsible to the Council for the proper enforcement thereof.
      (2)   (a)   Restricted or prohibited use of parking and traffic lanes may
be designated by painting the same upon streets and curbs.
         (b)   The work shall be done under the direction of the city and in
compliance with the provisions of this title.
      (3)   It is unlawful to use traffic or parking lanes contrary to sign-
posting or marking authorized and described in this title.
      (4)   (a)   Experimental restrictions and directions may be placed on
traffic and parking by the city, acting through the Public Works Director, and
it shall be his or her duty to do so when an extra-hazardous condition is
observed or arises.
         (b)   It is unlawful to violate any restriction or direction when the
same has been duly marked, barricaded or sign-posted.
(Prior Code, § 7.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.04 LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   The City Administrator, upon the recommendation of the Public Works
Director, may from time to time impose upon vehicular traffic on any part or
all of the streets load limits as may be necessary or desirable.
   (B)   These limits, and the specific extent or weight to which loads are
limited, shall be clearly and legibly sign-posted thereon.
   (C)   It is a misdemeanor for any person to operate a vehicle on any street
in violation of the limitation so posted.
(Prior Code, § 7.21) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Minnesota Statutes, Chapters 168, 169 and 171 adopted by reference
   
71.02   U-turns
   
71.03   One-way streets
Exhibition Driving
   
71.15   Definition
   
71.16   Unlawful act
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 MINNESOTA STATUTES, CHAPTERS 168, 169 AND 171 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, or in this title of this code,
the regulatory and procedural provisions of M.S. Chapter 168, Chapter 169
(commonly referred to as the Highway Traffic Regulation Act) and Chapter 171,
as they may be amended from time to time, are hereby incorporated herein and
adopted by reference, including the penalty provisions thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8.01) (Ord. 182, effective 2-20-1998)
§ 71.02 U-TURNS.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle by turning so as to
proceed in the opposite direction upon any street except at a street
intersection, and then only if the street intersection is not sign-posted
prohibiting a U-turn or otherwise controlled by a traffic signal; provided,
that any person making a permitted U-turn shall yield the right-of-way to all
other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 8.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The Council may, by resolution, designate streets as one-way streets.
   (B)   It is a misdemeanor for any person to travel upon any one-way street
in a direction opposite that designated when the same has been duly sign-
posted.
(Prior Code, § 8.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
EXHIBITION DRIVING
§ 71.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXHIBITION DRIVING. To stop, start, accelerate or decelerate a motor
vehicle, or to turn the motor vehicle at an unnecessary rate of speed so as to
cause tires to squeal, gears to grind, soil to be thrown, engine backfire,
fishtailing or skidding or, as to two-wheeled or three-wheeled motor vehicles,
the front wheel to lose contact with the ground or roadway surface.
(Prior Code, § 8.04, Subd. 1)
§ 71.16 UNLAWFUL ACT.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to do any exhibition driving on any
street, parking lot or other public or private property, except when an
emergency creates necessity for the operation to prevent injury to persons or
damage to property; provided, that this section shall not apply to driving on a
racetrack.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, a RACETRACK means any track or premises
whereon motorized vehicles, horses, dogs or other animals or fowl legally
compete in a race or timed contest for an audience, the members of which have
directly or indirectly paid a consideration for admission.
(Prior Code, § 8.04, Subd. 2) (Ord. 52, effective 1-4-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Presumption
   
72.02   General parking prohibitions
   
72.03   Unauthorized removal
   
72.04   House trailer, mobile home, camping trailer and bus parking
   
72.05   Direction to proceed
   
72.06   Parallel parking
   
72.07   Angle parking
   
72.08   Streets without curb
   
72.09   Parking hours
   
72.10   Truck parking
   
72.11   Parking rules in municipal parking lots and ramps
   
72.12   Impounding and removing vehicles
   
72.13   Keys in ignition
   
72.14   Vehicle repair on street
   
72.15   Parking for the purpose of advertising or selling merchandise
   
72.16   Physically disabled parking
§ 72.01 PRESUMPTION.
   As to any vehicle parking in violation of this title when the driver thereof
is not present, it shall be presumed that the owner parked the same, or that
the driver was acting as the agent of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 9.01)
§ 72.02 GENERAL PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a vehicle except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
specific directions of a police officer or traffic control device in any of the
following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   On a crosswalk;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at any intersection;
   (G)   In a sign-posted fire lane;
   (H)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   (I)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   (J)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on the
side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of
the entrance when properly sign-posted;
   (K)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (L)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
   (M)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street;
   (N)   At any place where official signs prohibit or restrict stopping,
parking or both;
   (O)   In any alley, except for loading or unloading and then only so long as
reasonably necessary for loading and unloading to or from adjacent premises; or
   (P)   On any boulevard which has been curbed.
(Prior Code, § 9.02)
§ 72.03 UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL.
   It is unlawful for any person to move a vehicle not owned by that person
into any prohibited area or away from a curb the distance as is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 9.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 HOUSE TRAILER, MOBILE HOME, CAMPING TRAILER AND BUS PARKING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to leave or park a house trailer, mobile
home, camping trailer, bus or other similar recreational vehicle on or within
the limits of any street or right-of-way, except where signs are erected
designating the place as a campsite, for more than 24 consecutive hours.
   (B)   Provided, however, that during the 24-hour period, the vehicle shall
not be occupied as living quarters.
(Prior Code, § 9.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 DIRECTION TO PROCEED.
   It is unlawful for any person to stop or park a vehicle on a street when
directed or ordered to proceed by any police officer invested by law with
authority to direct, control or regulate traffic.
(Prior Code, § 9.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 PARALLEL PARKING.
   Except where angle parking is specifically allowed and indicated by curb
marking or sign-posting, or both, each vehicle stopped or parked upon a two-way
road where there is an adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-
hand wheels of the vehicle parallel with, and within 12 inches of, the right-
hand curb, and, where painted markings appear on the curb or the street, the
vehicle shall be within the markings, front and rear; provided that upon a one-
way roadway all vehicles shall be so parked, except that the left-hand wheels
of the vehicle may be parallel with and within 12 inches from the left-hand
curb, but the front of the vehicle in any event and with respect to the
remainder of the vehicle, shall be in the direction of the flow of traffic upon
the one-way street; and it is unlawful to park in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 9.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.07 ANGLE PARKING.
   Where angle parking has been established by Council resolution, and is
allowed, as shown by curb marking or sign-posting, or both, each vehicle
stopped or parked shall be at an angle of approximately 45 to 60 degrees with
the front wheel touching the curb and within any parking lines painted on the
curb or street, provided that the front wheel not touching the curb shall be
the portion of the vehicle furthest in the direction of one-way traffic; and it
is unlawful to park in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 9.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.08 STREETS WITHOUT CURB.
   Upon streets not having a curb, each vehicle shall be stopped or parked
parallel and to the right of the paving, improved or main traveled part of the
street; and it is unlawful to park in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 9.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.09 PARKING HOURS.
   Parking on streets shall be limited as follows.
   (A)   Parking for a continuous period in excess of 24 hours. It is unlawful
for any person to stop, park or leave standing any vehicle upon any street for
a continuous period in excess of 24 hours.
   (B)   Limited parking zones. The Public Works Director may, when authorized
by resolution of the Council, designate certain streets, blocks or portions of
streets or blocks as five-minute, ten-minute, 15-minute, 30-minute, one-hour,
two-hour, four-hour, six-hour, eight-hour limited parking zones and shall mark
by appropriate signs any zones so established. These zones shall be established
whenever necessary for the convenience of the public or to minimize traffic
hazards and preserve a free flow of traffic. It is unlawful for any person to
stop, park or leave standing any vehicle in a prohibited parking zone, for a
period of time in excess of the sign-posted limitation, or during sign-posted
hours of prohibited parking.
   (C)   Removal of markings. It is unlawful for any person to remove, erase or
otherwise obliterate any mark or sign placed upon a tire or other part of a
vehicle by a police officer for the purpose of measuring the length of time the
vehicle has been parked.
   (D)   Enforcement. For the purpose of enforcement of this section, any
vehicle moved less than one block within the same block in a limited time
parking zone, and facing in the same direction, shall be deemed to have
remained stationary.
(Prior Code, § 9.09) (Ord. 95, effective 12-23-1988; Ord. 222, effective 12-12-
2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.10 TRUCK PARKING.
   (A)   It is unlawful to park a detached semitrailer upon any street, city-
owned parking lot or other public property except streets as specifically
designated by the Council by resolution and sign-posted.
   (B)   It is unlawful to park a truck (other than a truck of 12,000 pounds
gross vehicle weight, or less), truck-trailer, tractor-trailer or truck-tractor
within an area zoned as a residential district except for the purpose of
loading or unloading the same.
   (C)   It is unlawful to park a commercial vehicle of more than 12,000 pounds
gross vehicle weight upon any street in the business district except streets as
specifically designated by the Council by resolution and sign-posted, but
parking of a vehicle for a period of not more than 20 minutes shall be
permitted in a space for the purpose of necessary access to abutting property
while actively loading or unloading when access cannot reasonably be secured
from an alley or from an adjacent street where truck parking is not so
restricted.
   (D)   It is unlawful to park a truck or other vehicle using or equipped with
a trailer, or extended body or other extension or projection beyond the
original length of the vehicle, or any passenger bus, diagonally along any
street except for a time sufficient to load or unload, and in that case, only
parallel parking shall be permitted, provided, however, that a truck may stand
backed up to the curb if the weight or bulk of the load makes parallel parking
impracticable, but then only for a period of time sufficient to load or unload.
   (E)   Parking of commercial vehicles is permitted in duly designated and
sign-posted loading zones, and in alleys, for a period of up to 20 minutes,
provided that alley parking does not prevent the flow of traffic therein, all
of which shall be for the purpose of access to abutting or adjacent property
while actively loading or unloading.
(Prior Code, § 9.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.11 PARKING RULES IN MUNICIPAL PARKING LOTS AND RAMPS.
   (A)   In city-owned parking lots and ramps, the Council may limit the sizes
and types of motor vehicles to be parked thereon, hours of parking and
prescribed method of parking, provided that the limitations and restrictions
are marked or sign-posted thereon.
   (B)   It is unlawful to park or leave standing any vehicle backed into a
parking place, to drive in a direction opposite the flow of traffic marked by
one-way signs or arrows, or to park any vehicle in any city-owned parking lot
or ramp contrary to the restrictions or limitations marked or sign-posted
therein.
(Prior Code, § 9.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.12 IMPOUNDING AND REMOVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   When any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street or
city-owned parking lot in violation of any parking regulation, the officer is
hereby authorized to require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to remove the same to a position in compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   When any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any street or
city-owned parking lot in violation of any parking regulation, the officer is
hereby authorized to impound an unlawfully parked vehicle and to provide for
the removal thereof and to remove the same to a convenient garage or other
facility or place of safety; provided, that if any charge shall be placed
against the vehicle for cost of removal or storage, or both, by anyone called
upon to assist therewith the same shall be paid prior to removal from the place
of storage or safekeeping.
(Prior Code, § 9.21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.13 KEYS IN IGNITION.
   It is unlawful for any person to leave a motor vehicle unattended with the
key in the ignition.
(Prior Code, § 9.22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.14 VEHICLE REPAIR ON STREET.
   It is unlawful for any person to service, repair, assemble or dismantle any
vehicle parked upon a street, or attempt to do so, except to service the
vehicle with gasoline or oil or to provide emergency repairs thereon, but in no
event for more than 72 hours.
(Prior Code, § 9.23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.15 PARKING FOR THE PURPOSE OF ADVERTISING OR SELLING MERCHANDISE.
   (A)   Parking for the purpose of advertising or selling merchandise. It is
unlawful for any person to park or leave a vehicle on any public property for
the purpose of advertising the vehicle for sale, for the purpose of advertising
for sale or selling merchandise thereon or therein or advertising any
merchandise for sale or a forthcoming event.
   (B)   Exceptions. Vehicles parked for use in the sale of merchandise in the
city parking lot by vendors participating in the farmer's market or as approved
by the City Council.
   (C)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Streets, highways, alleys, public rights-of-way, public
parks, parking lots open to the public and municipal parking lots.
(Prior Code, § 9.24) (Ord. 213, effective 3-30-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.16 PHYSICALLY DISABLED PARKING.
   (A)   Statutory parking privileges for physically disabled shall be strictly
observed and enforced. Police officers are authorized to tag vehicles on either
private or public property in violation of the statutory privileges.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person, whether or not physically disabled, to
stop, park or leave standing, a motor vehicle:
      (1)   In a sign-posted fire lane at any time; or
      (2)   In lanes where, and during these hours as, parking is prohibited to
accommodate heavy traffic during morning and afternoon rush hours.
(Prior Code, § 9.25) (Ord. 42, effective 12-23-1983) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLE REGULATIONS
Section
   
73.01   Definition
   
73.02   Registration required
   
73.03   Traffic laws apply
   
73.04   Manner and number riding
   
73.05   Hitching rides
   
73.06   Where to ride
   
73.07   Right-of-way; sidewalks
   
73.08   Carrying articles
§ 73.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which a person may ride,
having two tandem wheels either of which is over 14 inches in diameter, and
including any device generally recognized as a bicycle though equipped with two
front or rear wheels.
(Prior Code, § 7.20, Subd. 1)
§ 73.02 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to ride or operate a bicycle not registered
with the State Commissioner of Public Safety upon any street, sidewalk or other
public property.
(Prior Code, § 7.20, Subd. 2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.03 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway or upon any path set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles shall be granted all of the rights and shall be
subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this
title, except as to special regulations in this title and except as to those
provisions of this title which by their nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 8.10, Subd. 1)
§ 73.04 MANNER AND NUMBER RIDING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person propelling a bicycle to ride other than
upon or astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped, except on a baby seat attached to
the bicycle, provided that the seat is equipped with a harness to hold the
child securely in the seat and that protection is provided against the child's
feet hitting the spokes of the wheel or in a seat attached to the bicycle
operator.
(Prior Code, § 8.10, Subd. 2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.05 HITCHING RIDES.
   It is unlawful for any person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller
skates, toboggan, sled, skateboard or toy vehicle to attach the same or himself
or herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 8.10, Subd. 3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.06 WHERE TO RIDE.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
   (C)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use the path and shall not use the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 8.10, Subd. 4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.07 RIGHT-OF-WAY; SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing the pedestrian.
   (B)   Provided, that it is unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle on a
sidewalk in a business district.
(Prior Code, § 8.10, Subd. 5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.08 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person operating a bicycle to carry any package,
bundle or article which prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand upon
the handlebars.
(Prior Code, § 8.10, Subd. 6) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 74: SKATEBOARDS AND ROLLERSKATES
Section
   
74.01   Definitions
   
74.02   Skateboards and rollerskates regulations
§ 74.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ROLLERSKATES. A shoe with wheels attached or a device with wheels which is
designed to be attached to a shoe.
   SKATEBOARDS. A wheeled, self-propelled device designed to transport a rider
in a standing position, which device is not otherwise secured to a rider's foot
or shoes.
(Prior Code, § 8.09, Subd. 1) (Ord. 102, effective 7-14-1989)
§ 74.02 SKATEBOARDS AND ROLLERSKATES REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate, propel or ride a skateboard
or rollerskates anywhere within the business district of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to operate, propel or ride a skateboard
or rollerskates upon any public street or alleyway within the city.
   (C)   Whenever a person is riding a skateboard or rollerskates upon a
sidewalk where not prohibited, the person shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian and shall give audible signal before overtaking and passing the
pedestrian.
(Prior Code, § 8.09, Subd. 2) (Ord. 102, effective 7-14-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 75: SNOWMOBILES AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
Section
   
75.01   Definitions
   
75.02   Application of other laws
   
75.03   Operation on streets and highways
   
75.04   Operation generally
   
75.05   Equipment
   
75.06   Operation by a minor
   
75.07   Signal from officer to stop
   
75.08   Leaving snowmobile/ATV unattended
   
75.09   Chasing animals forbidden
   
75.10   Operation of snowmobiles/ATVs while under the influence of alcohol
   
75.11   Exemptions
§ 75.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ATV. A self-propelled vehicle consisting of three or four wheels designed
for travel off-road or on snow or ice. The following are not ATVS: four-wheel
drive trucks; jeeps; or other automobiles.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile/ATV.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lien holder, having the property in or title
to a snowmobile entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, partnership, corporation, the state and its
agencies and subdivisions, and any body of persons, whether incorporated or
not.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire strip of land traversed by a street or highway in
which the public owns the fee or an easement for roadway purposes.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel including the shoulder.
   SAFETY OR DEADMAN THROTTLE. A device which, when pressure is removed from
the engine accelerator or throttle, causes the motor to be disengaged from the
driving track.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice
steered by skis or runners.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between boundary lines or any way or
place when any part thereof is open to the use of the public, as a matter of
right, for the purpose of vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 8.11, Subd. 1)
§ 75.02 APPLICATION OF OTHER LAWS.
   (A)   City code provisions relating to vehicular traffic shall apply to the
operation of snowmobiles/ATVs upon street and highways; and M.S. §§ 84.81
through 84.915 and Chapter 169, as they may be amended from time to time, are
hereby adopted by reference except those provisions which by their nature have
no application.
   (B)   The Council may by resolution, following a published notice, prohibit
the operation of snowmobiles/ATVs within the right-of-way of the public roads
or streets or other areas within the city, when in the opinion of the Council
the public safety and welfare so require.
(Prior Code, § 8.11, Subd. 2)
§ 75.03 OPERATION ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   County roads. Snowmobiles/ATVs may be operated in the ditch along the
outside bank but may not be operated on the roadway surface except to cross at
right angles. Where curbs or sidewalks exist and no ditch exists, travel is not
allowed on the roadway surface.
   (B)   City streets. Snowmobiles/ATVs may be operated on city streets, in
single file, on the most right-hand lane when available for traffic or as close
as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when passing
another vehicle stopped in that lane. When using city streets, a snowmobile/ATV
may travel at a speed no greater than ten mph.
   (C)   Direct crossing. A snowmobile/ATV may make a direct crossing of a
street or highway if:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing;
      (2)   The snowmobile/ATV is brought to a complete stop before crossing
the shoulder or main traveled way of the street or highway;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic and
pedestrians which constitute an immediate hazard;
      (4)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of the highway with another public street or highway; and
      (5)   The snowmobile/ATV must have both front and rear lights on.
   (D)   Operation on public thoroughfare. Notwithstanding any prohibition in
this chapter, a snowmobile/ATV may be operated on a public thoroughfare in an
emergency during the period of time when and at locations where snow upon the
roadway renders travel by automobile impractical.
(Prior Code, § 8.11, Subd. 3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 75.04 OPERATION GENERALLY.
   Except as otherwise specifically permitted and authorized, it is unlawful
for any person to operate a snowmobile/ATV within the limits of the city:
   (A)   Within the corporate limits of the city except for the purpose of
transportation between a point outside of the city limits and the residence of
the operator within the city limits by the shortest possible route;
   (B)   On any sidewalk or pedestrian trail unless specifically designated for
snowmobiling within the city;
   (C)   On city streets at a speed exceeding 20 mph;
   (D)   On any school property, church property or within a cemetery;
   (E)   No snowmobile/ATV may be operated within the boundaries of any park of
the city other than on trails designated within the park for snowmobile/ATV
traffic;
   (F)   On a public bike path, unless it is posted with signs authorizing the
use of snowmobiles/ATVs;
   (G)   On property not owned by the person, without the written or oral
permission of the owner, occupant or lessee of those lands. Written permission
may be given by a posted notice of any kind or description that the owner,
occupant or lessee prefers, so long as it specifies the kind of vehicles
allowed such as by saying "Snowmobiles/ATVs Allowed," or other words
substantially similar;
   (H)   At any place in a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to
endanger the person or property of another or to cause injury or damage
thereto;
   (I)   Without a lighted head and tail light;
   (J)   In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or destroys
growing stock;
   (K)   Except in a health-related emergency, to tow any person or thing on a
public street or highway except through the use of a rigid tow bar attached to
the rest of the snowmobile/ATV;
   (L)   At a speed greater than 20 mph when within 100 feet of any river,
lakeshore, person, ice houses or skating rinks; nor shall operation be
permitted within 100 feet of any sliding area nor where the operation would
conflict with the lawful use of property or would endanger other persons or
property;
   (M)   In a manner so as to create a loud, unnecessary or unusual noise which
disturbs, annoys or interferes with the peace and quiet of other persons; and
   (N)   Except for travel along city trails there shall be no snowmobiling in
the city limits between the hours of 12:00 a.m. through 7:00 a.m. Snowmobiling
upon city trails shall be permitted 24 hours a day.
(Prior Code, § 8.11, Subd. 4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 75.05 EQUIPMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile/ATV any place within
the city unless it is equipped with the following:
   (A)   Standard muffler which is in good working order which blends the
exhaust noise into the overall snowmobile/ATV noise and is in constant
operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise as set forth in Minn. Rules
Chapter 6100.5700, subpart 5. No person shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass,
straight pipe or similar device on the snowmobile/ATV motor; and the exhaust
system shall not emit or produce a sharp popping or crackling sound. This
requirement shall not apply in the case of an organized race or similar
competitive event as provided under M.S. § 84.871, as it may be amended from
time to time;
   (B)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
snowmobile/ATV under any conditions of operation;
   (C)   At least one head lamp having a minimum candle power of sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead during hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions. The head
lamp shall be so aimed that glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of an
oncoming snowmobile/ATV operator. At least one red tail lamp, having a minimum
candlepower of sufficient intensity to exhibit a red light plainly visible from
a distance of 500 feet to the rear during hours of darkness under normal
atmospheric conditions. The light must be turned on and operating when the
vehicle is operated;
   (D)   Reflective material of a minimum area of at least 16 square inches
mounted on each side of the snowmobile/ATV forward of the handle bars so as to
reflect or beam light at a 90 degree angle;
   (E)   A safety or so-called "deadman" throttle in operating condition so
that when pressure is removed from the accelerator or throttle, the motor is
disengaged from the driving track; and
   (F)   Any sled, trailer or other device being towed by a snowmobile/ATV
during the hours of darkness as described in division (D) above, under normal
atmospheric conditions must be equipped with unobstructed and visible
reflective materials mounted on each side and at the rear of the sled, trailer
or device which has at least the minimum intensity values set forth in Minn.
Rules 6100.5700, subpart 2, item B.
(Prior Code, § 8.11, Subd. 5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 75.06 OPERATION BY A MINOR.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person under 14 years of age to operate a
snowmobile/ATV on streets or highways or make a direct crossing of a street or
highway within the city.
   (B)   A person 14 years or older but less than 18 years of age may operate a
snowmobile/ATV on streets or highways as permitted under this chapter and make
a direct crossing of a street or highway only if the operator has immediate
possession a valid snowmobile/ATV safety certificate issued by the Commissioner
of Natural Resources or a valid motor vehicle operator's license issued by the
Commissioner of Public Safety or the drivers license authority of another
state.
   (C)   It is unlawful for the owner of a snowmobile/ATV to permit the
snowmobile/ATV to be operated contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.11, Subd. 6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 75.07 SIGNAL FROM OFFICER TO STOP.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile/ATV in the city after
having received a visual or audible signal from any law enforcement officer to
come to a stop to:
   (A)   Operate a snowmobile/ATV in willful or wanton disregard of the signal;
   (B)   Interfere with or endanger the law enforcement officer or any other
person or vehicle; or
   (C)   Increase speed or attempt to flee or elude the officer.
(Prior Code, § 8.11, Subd. 7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 75.08 LEAVING SNOWMOBILE/ATV UNATTENDED.
   It is unlawful for any person to leave a snowmobile/ATV in a public place
without first locking the ignition, removing the key and taking the same with
them.
(Prior Code, § 8.11, Subd. 8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 75.09 CHASING ANIMALS FORBIDDEN.
   It is unlawful for any person to intentionally drive, chase, run over or
kill any animal, wild or domestic, with a snowmobile/ATV.
(Prior Code, § 8.11, Subd. 9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 75.10 OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES/ATVS WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL.
   It is a violation of state law for any person to operate or to be in
physical control of any snowmobile/ATV in the city while under the influence of
alcohol or a controlled substance or under the influence of a combination of
alcohol and a controlled substance. The definition and regulatory provisions of
M.S. Chapters 169 and 84, as they may be amended from time to time, are hereby
incorporated herein and adopted by reference, including the penalty provisions
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8.11, Subd. 10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 75.11 EXEMPTIONS.
   Licensed peace officers shall be exempt from the restrictions of this
chapter while operating a snowmobile/ATV in the proper performance of their
duties.
(Prior Code, § 8.11, Subd. 11)
CHAPTER 76: WINTER PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking hours
SCHEDULE I. PARKING HOURS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this schedule, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT STREETS. Mill Street from Third Street to the
Little Cannon River; and Main Street from Third Street to the Little Cannon
River; and Fourth Street from Hoffman Street to Park Street.
   (B)   Central Business District streets. It is unlawful for any person to
stop, park or leave standing any vehicle upon any Central Business District
streets during the hours of 1:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. from November 1 to March 30.
   (C)   All other streets. It is unlawful for any person to stop, park or
leave standing any vehicle upon any street that is not a Central Business
District street during the hours of 12:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. from November 1 to
March 30.
(Prior Code, § 9.09, Subd. 4)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
91.   NOISE
         
92.   REFUSE
         
93.   DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND ARTICLES
         
94.   ANIMALS
         
95.   FIRE CODE AND EMERGENCY SERVICES
         
96.   PUBLIC PARKS
         
97.   NUISANCES
         
98.   VENDING MACHINE REGULATIONS
         
99.   CANNON VALLEY TRAIL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 90: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Curb and gutter, street and sidewalk painting or coloring
Ice and Snow on Public Sidewalks
   
90.015   Ice and snow a nuisance
   
90.016   City to remove snow and ice
   
90.017   Cost of removal to be assessed
   
90.018   Civil suit for cost of removal
Placing Snow or Ice in a Public Street or on City Property
   
90.030   Not acting under specific contract
   
90.031   Permission from city
   
90.032   Dumping on portion which is not traveled upon
Regulation of Trees, Grass and Weeds in Streets
   
90.045   City to control tree planting
   
90.046   Definitions
   
90.047   Tree planting requirements; species; locations
   
90.048   Public trees; planting, care and removal
   
90.049   Duty of property owners to cut grass and weeds and maintain trees and
shrubs
   
90.050   City may order work done
   
90.051   Assessment
Construction and Reconstruction of Roadway Surfacing, Sidewalk, Curb and Gutter
   
90.065   Methods of procedure
   
90.066   Permit required
   
90.067   Specifications and standards
   
90.068   Inspections
Coal Tar-Based Sealer Products
   
90.080   Purpose
   
90.081   Definitions
   
90.082   Prohibitions
   
90.083   Exemption
   
90.084   Asphalt-based seal coat products
Obstructions, Fire, Dumping, Signs and Other Structures
   
90.095   Fires
   
90.096   Dumping in streets
   
90.097   Signs and other structures
   
90.098   Continuing violation
   
90.099   Condition
Requirement of Sewer and Water Main Service Lateral Installation
   
90.115   Requirement of sewer and water laterals
   
90.116   Sewer system service and water main service laterals
   
90.117   Waiver
Rights-of-Way
   
90.150   Findings, purpose and intent
   
90.151   Election to manage the public rights-of-way
   
90.152   Definitions
   
90.153   Administration
   
90.154   Utility coordination committee
   
90.155   Registration and right-of-way occupancy
   
90.156   Registration information
   
90.157   Reporting obligations
   
90.158   Permit requirement
   
90.159   Permit applications
   
90.160   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
90.161   Permit fees
   
90.162   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
90.163   Joint applications
   
90.164   Supplementary applications
   
90.165   Other obligations
   
90.166   Denial of permit
   
90.167   Installation requirements
   
90.168   Inspection
   
90.169   Work done without a permit
   
90.170   Supplementary notification
   
90.171   Revocation of permits
   
90.172   Mapping data
   
90.173   Location and relocation of facilities
   
90.174   Pre-excavation facilities location
   
90.175   Damage to other facilities
   
90.176   Right-of-way vacation
   
90.177   Indemnification and liability
   
90.178   Abandoned and unused facilities
   
90.179   Appeal
   
90.180   Severability
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 CURB AND GUTTER, STREET AND SIDEWALK PAINTING OR COLORING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to paint, letter or color any street,
sidewalk or curb and gutter within the public right-of-way for advertising
purposes, or to paint or color any street, sidewalk or curb and gutter for any
purpose, except as the same may be done by city employees acting within the
course or scope of their employment.
   (B)   Provided, however, that this provision shall not apply to uniformly
coloring concrete or other surfacing, or uniformly painted house numbers, as
the coloring may be approved by the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.22) Penalty, see §
10.99
ICE AND SNOW ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS
§ 90.015 ICE AND SNOW A NUISANCE.
   All snow and ice remaining upon public sidewalks is hereby declared to
constitute a public nuisance and shall be abated by the owner or tenant of the
abutting private property within 24 hours after snow or ice has ceased to be
deposited.
(Prior Code, § 7.04, Subd. 1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Additional snow and ice removal provisions, see §
97.001
§ 90.016 CITY TO REMOVE SNOW AND ICE.
   The city may cause to be removed from all public sidewalks, beginning 24
hours after snow or ice has ceased to fall, all snow and ice which may be
discovered thereon, and it shall keep a record of the cost of the removal and
the private property adjacent to which the accumulations were found and
removed.
(Prior Code, § 7.04, Subd. 2)
§ 90.017 COST OF REMOVAL TO BE ASSESSED.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall, upon direction of the Council, and on
receipt of the information provided for in §
90.016 extend the cost of the removal of snow or ice as a special assessment
against the lots or parcels of ground abutting on walks which were cleared.
   (B)   The special assessments shall at the time of certifying taxes to the
County Auditor be certified for collection as other special assessments are
certified and collected.
(Prior Code, § 7.04, Subd. 3)
§ 90.018 CIVIL SUIT FOR COST OF REMOVAL.
   The City Administrator shall, in the alternative, upon direction of the
Council, bring suit in a court of competent jurisdiction to recover from the
persons owning land adjacent to which sidewalks were cleared, as provided in §
90.016, the cost of clearing and the cost and disbursements of a civil action
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 7.04, Subd. 4)
PLACING SNOW OR ICE IN A PUBLIC STREET OR ON CITY PROPERTY
§ 90.030 NOT ACTING UNDER SPECIFIC CONTRACT.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person, not acting under a specific contract
with the city or without special permission from the city, to remove snow or
ice from private property and place the same on the traveled portion of a
public street.
(Prior Code, § 7.05, Subd. 1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.031 PERMISSION FROM CITY.
   Where permission is granted by the city the person to whom permission is
granted shall be initially responsible for payment of all direct or indirect
costs of removing the snow or ice from the street. If not paid, collection
shall be by civil action or assessment against the benefitted property as any
other special assessment.
(Prior Code, § 7.05, Subd. 2)
§ 90.032 DUMPING ON PORTION WHICH IS NOT TRAVELED UPON.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person not acting under a contract with the city
to dump snow or ice on city property which is not the traveled portion of a
street.
(Prior Code, § 7.05, Subd. 3) Penalty, see §
10.99
REGULATION OF TREES, GRASS AND WEEDS IN STREETS
§ 90.045 CITY TO CONTROL TREE PLANTING.
   The city shall have control and supervision of planting shrubs and trees
upon, or overhanging, all streets and other public property. The city may
establish and enforce uniform standards relating to the species and types of
trees to be planted, placement and the maintenance and removal thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7.06, Subd. 1) (Ord. 149, effective 7-1-1994)
§ 90.046 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LARGE TREE. Any plant material that will grow to a height of over 50 feet.
   MEDIUM TREE. Any plant material that will grow to a height of no more than
50 feet.
   PARK TREE. A tree, shrub, bush or other woody vegetation in public parks
having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   PRIVATE TREE. A tree, shrub, bush or other woody vegetation growing on
private property within the city.
   PUBLIC TREE. A tree, shrub, bush or other woody vegetation growing on any
public property owned and/or managed by the city.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any public private or cooperatively owned line, facility of
system for producing, transmitting or distributing communications, power,
electricity, light, heat, gas, oil products, water, waste or stormwater, which
directly or indirectly serves the public or any part thereof within the
corporate limits of the city.
   SMALL TREE. Any plant material that will grow to a height of no more than 30
feet.
   STREET TREE. A tree, shrub, bush or other woody vegetation growing on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues and
boulevards within the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.06, Subd. 2) (Ord. 149, effective 7-1-1994)
§ 90.047 TREE PLANTING REQUIREMENTS; SPECIES; LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Landscaping plan review. In conjunction with issuing a building permit
for a new dwelling, or when the development of a new subdivision or commercial
property occurs, the City Forester will review landscaping plans and may
require trees to be planted in any of the streets, parking lots, parks and
other public places abutting the lands developed and/or subdivided, in
accordance with guidelines established by the Tree Board.
   (B)   Tree species. The Tree Board shall develop and maintain a list of
desirable trees for planting along streets in three size classes: small, medium
and large. A list of trees not suitable for planting will also be created and
enforced by the Tree Board.
   (C)   Spacing between trees. The spacing of street trees will be in
accordance with the three species and size classes listed in this subchapter
and no trees may be planted closer together than the following: small trees, 30
feet; medium trees, 40 feet; and large trees, 50 feet; except in special
plantings designed or approved by the City Forester.
   (D)   Planting near utilities. No street trees other than those species
listed herein as small trees may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of
any overhead utility wire.
   (E)   Planting near curbs and sidewalks. The distance trees may be planted
from curbs or curblines and sidewalks will be in accordance with the three
species size classes listed in this subchapter, and no trees may be planted
closer to any curb or sidewalk than the following: small trees, two feet;
medium trees, three feet; and large trees, four feet.
   (F)   Distance from corners, fire hydrants and driveways. No street tree
shall be planted closer than 35 feet to any street corner, measured from the
point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No street tree shall be
planted closer than 15 feet to any fire hydrant, nor 5 feet from any driveway.
   (G)   Special planting arrangements. The Board may grant a permit for
special planting arrangements that deviate from the requirements of this
section, when special circumstances exist.
(Prior Code, § 7.06, Subd. 3) (Ord. 149, effective 7-1-1994)
§ 90.048 PUBLIC TREES; PLANTING, CARE AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   Care of public trees. The city shall have the right to plant, prune,
maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets,
alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds as may be necessary to
ensure the public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of
public grounds. No other planting may be done without consent of the City
Forester.
   (B)   Removal of trees endangering utilities or other public improvements.
The City Forester may remove or cause to be removed any tree or part thereof
which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious
to any public utility or public improvement, or is affected with any injurious
fungus, insect or other pest. Every tree overhanging any street or right-of-way
within the city shall be pruned so that the branches will not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection, and
so that there is a clear space of at least eight feet above the street or
sidewalk.
   (C)   Protection of public trees near construction activities. Any tree
located on city property in the immediate vicinity of any excavation,
demolition or construction site of any building, structure, street or utilities
work which has potential for injury, shall be protected from injury.
   (D)   Tree topping prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to top any
street tree, park tree or other tree on public property. TOPPING is defined as
the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs within the tree's crown to a degree
so as to remove normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from
this subchapter, as determined by the Tree Board.
   (E)   Permits relating to public trees. It is unlawful for any person to
plant, remove, cut above the ground or disturb any tree on any street, park or
other public place without first filing an application and procuring a permit
from the City Forester. The person receiving the permit shall abide by the
standards set forth in this subchapter.
   (F)   Adjacent landowner responsibility. Owners of property adjacent to
street trees shall maintain the trees by periodic watering and fertilization of
street trees as necessary to maintain good health and vigor and protect the
trees against damage caused by lawnmowers, weed trimmers, snowblowers and
similar equipment.
      (1)   Public trees; private property owner requests; financial
responsibility. In cases where an owner of private real property abutting city
property requests city actions on street trees or public trees, the requesting
owner shall be financially responsible for the following:
         (a)   Removal of trees, limbs or roots preventing house moving or
other construction activities;
         (b)   Removal of trees, limbs or roots for the alteration of tree or
abutting property appearance where no hazard or nuisance exists; and
         (c)   Spraying, fertilizing or treatment other than may be regularly
conducted on a city-wide basis by the city.
      (2)   Financial responsibility. Financial responsibility does not
eliminate the requirement of obtaining necessary permits required by this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7.06, Subd. 4) (Ord. 149, effective 7-1-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.049 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNERS TO CUT GRASS AND WEEDS AND MAINTAIN TREES AND
SHRUBS.
   Every owner of property abutting on any street shall cause the grass and
weeds to be cut from the line of the property nearest to the street to the
center of the street. If the grass or weeds in a place attain a height in
excess of six inches it shall be prima facie evidence of a failure to comply
with this section. Every owner of property abutting on any street shall,
subject to the provisions herein requiring a permit therefor, trim, cut and
otherwise maintain all trees and shrubs in unhazardous and healthy condition,
from the line of the property nearest to the street to the center thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7.06, Subd. 5) (Ord. 149, effective 7-1-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.050 CITY MAY ORDER WORK DONE.
   The city may, in cases of failure to comply with this subchapter, perform
work with employees of the city, keeping an accurate account of the cost
thereof for each lot, piece or parcel of land abutting upon the street.
(Prior Code, § 7.06, Subd. 6) (Ord. 149, effective 7-1-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.051 ASSESSMENT.
   If maintenance work described in §
90.050 is performed by the city, the City Administrator shall forthwith upon
completion thereof ascertain the cost attributable to each lot, piece or parcel
of abutting land. The City Administrator shall, at the next regular meeting
thereof, present the certificate to the Council and obtain its approval
thereof. When the certificate has been approved it shall be extended as to the
cost therein stated as a special assessment against the abutting land and the
special assessment shall, at the time of certifying taxes to the County
Auditor, be certified for collection as other special assessments are certified
and collected.
(Prior Code, § 7.06, Subd. 7) (Ord. 149, effective 7-1-1994)
CONSTRUCTION AND RECONSTRUCTION OF ROADWAY SURFACING, SIDEWALK, CURB AND GUTTER
§ 90.065 METHODS OF PROCEDURE.
   Abutting or affected property owners may contract for, construct or
reconstruct roadway surfacing, sidewalk or curb and gutter in accordance with
this subchapter if advance payment is made therefor or arrangements for payment
considered adequate by the city are completed in advance, with or without
petition by the methods set forth in the Local Improvement Code, presently
beginning with M.S. § 429.011, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 7.07, Subd. 1)
§ 90.066 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is a misdemeanor to construct a sidewalk, curb and gutter, driveway or
roadway surfacing in any street or other public property in the city without a
permit in writing from the Council. Application for the permit shall be made on
forms approved and provided by the city and shall sufficiently describe the
contemplated improvements, the contemplated date of beginning of work, and the
length of time required to complete the same, provided, that no permit shall be
required for any improvement ordered installed by the Council. All applications
shall be referred by the City Administrator to the Public Works Director, and
no permit shall be issued until approval has been received from the Public
Works Director. All applications shall contain an agreement by the applicant to
be bound by this subchapter and plans and specifications consistent with the
provisions of this subchapter and good engineering practices shall also
accompany the application. A permit from the city shall not relieve the holder
from damages to the person or property of another caused by the work.
(Prior Code, § 7.07, Subd. 2) (Ord. 149, effective 7-1-1994)
§ 90.067 SPECIFICATIONS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   All construction and reconstruction of roadway surfacing, sidewalk and
curb and gutter improvements, including curb cuts, shall be strictly in
accordance with specifications and standards on file in the office of the City
Administrator and open to inspection and copying there.
   (B)   These specifications and standards may be amended from time to time by
the city, but shall be uniformly enforced.
(Prior Code, § 7.07, Subd. 3)
§ 90.068 INSPECTIONS.
   The Council shall designate a suitable and competent person to perform
inspections required herein and other inspection of the work as deemed
necessary. Any work not done according to the applicable specifications and
standards shall be removed and corrected at the expense of the permit holder.
Any work done hereunder may be stopped by the Inspector if found to be
unsatisfactory or not in accordance with the specifications and standards, but
this shall not place a continuing burden upon the city to inspect or supervise
the work.
(Prior Code, § 7.07, Subd. 4)
COAL TAR-BASED SEALER PRODUCTS
§ 90.080 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City understands that lakes, rivers, streams and other bodies of
water are natural assets which enhance the environmental, recreational,
cultural and economic resources and contribute to the general health and
welfare of the community.
   (B)   The use of sealers on asphalt driveways is a common practice. However,
scientific studies on the use of driveway sealers have demonstrated a
relationship between stormwater runoff and certain health and environmental
concerns.
   (C)   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the use of sealer
products within the city in order to protect, restore, and preserve the quality
of its waters.
§ 90.081 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASPHALT-BASED SEALER. A petroleum-based sealer material that is commonly
used on driveways, parking lots, and other surfaces and which does not contain
coal tar.
   COAL TAR. A byproduct of the process used to refine coal.
   MPCA. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   PAHs or POLYCYCLIC AROMATIC HYDROCARBONS. A group of organic chemicals
formed during the incomplete burning of coal, oil, gas, or other organic
substances. Present in coal tar and believed harmful to humans, fish, and other
aquatic life.
   UNDILUTED COAL TAR-BASED SEALER. A sealer material containing coal tar that
has not been mixed with asphalt and which is commonly used on driveways,
parking lots and other surfaces.
§ 90.082 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall apply any undiluted coal tar-based sealer to any
driveway, parking lot, or other surface within the city.
   (B)   No person shall contract with any commercial sealer product
applicator, residential or commercial developer, or any other person for the
application of any undiluted coal tar-based sealer to any driveway, parking
lot, or other surface within the city.
   (C)   No commercial sealer product applicator, residential or commercial
developer, or other similar individual or organization shall direct any
employee, independent contractor, volunteer, or other person to apply any
undiluted coal tar-based sealer to any driveway, parking lot, or other surface
within the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.083 EXEMPTION.
   Upon the express written approval from both the city and the MPCA, a person
conducting bona fide research on the effects of undiluted coal tar-based sealer
products or PAHs on the environment shall be exempt from the prohibitions
provided in §
90.082.
§ 90.084 ASPHALT-BASED SEAL COAT PRODUCTS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall only apply to use of undiluted coal
tar-based sealer in the city and shall not affect the use of asphalt-based
sealer products within the city.
OBSTRUCTIONS, FIRE, DUMPING, SIGNS AND OTHER STRUCTURES
§ 90.095 FIRES.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person to build or maintain a fire upon a
roadway.
(Prior Code, § 7.09, Subd. 2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.096 DUMPING IN STREETS.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person to throw or deposit in any street or any
other public place any nails, dirt, glass, tin cans, metal scraps, garbage,
leaves, grass or tree limbs, shreds or rubbish, oil, grease or other petroleum
products, or to empty any water containing salt or other injurious chemical
thereon. It is a violation of this section to haul any material, not adequately
enclosed or covered, thereby permitting the same to fall upon the streets.
(Prior Code, § 7.09, Subd. 3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.097 SIGNS AND OTHER STRUCTURES.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person to place or maintain a sign or other
structure in the traveled or untraveled portion of any street or other public
property without first having obtained a written permit from the Council. In a
district zoned for commercial or industrial enterprises special permission
allowing an applicant to erect and maintain signs overhanging the street may be
granted upon terms and conditions as may be set forth in the zoning or
construction provisions of the city code.
(Prior Code, § 7.09, Subd. 4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.098 CONTINUING VIOLATION.
   Each day that any person continues in violation of this subchapter shall be
a separate offense and punishable as such.
(Prior Code, § 7.09, Subd. 5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.099 CONDITION.
   Before granting any permit under any of the provisions of this subchapter,
the Council may impose insurance or bonding conditions thereon as it,
considering the projected danger to public or private property or to persons,
deems proper for safeguarding those persons and property. The insurance or bond
shall also protect the city from any suit, action or cause of action arising by
reason of the obstruction.
(Prior Code, § 7.09, Subd. 6)
REQUIREMENT OF SEWER AND WATER MAIN SERVICE LATERAL INSTALLATION
§ 90.115 REQUIREMENT OF SEWER AND WATER LATERALS.
   No petition for the improvement of a street shall be considered by the
Council if the petition contemplates constructing therein any part of a
pavement or stabilized base, or curb and gutter, unless all sewer and water
main installations shall have been made therein, including the installation of
service laterals to the curb, if the area along the street will be served by
utilities installed in the street.
(Prior Code, § 7.10, Subd. 1)
§ 90.116 SEWER SYSTEM SERVICE AND WATER MAIN SERVICE LATERALS.
   No sewer system shall be hereafter constructed or extended unless service
laterals to platted lots and frontage facing thereon shall be extended
simultaneously with construction of mains.
(Prior Code, § 7.10, Subd. 2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.117 WAIVER.
   The Council may waive the requirements of this subchapter only if it finds
the effects thereof are burdensome and upon notice and hearing as the Council
may deem necessary or proper.
(Prior Code, § 7.10, Subd. 3)
RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 90.150 FINDINGS, PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   To provide for the health, safety and welfare of its citizens, and to
ensure the integrity of its streets and the appropriate use of the rights-of-
way, the city strives to keep its rights-of-way in a state of good repair and
free from unnecessary encumbrances.
   (B)   The city hereby enacts this subchapter relating to right-of-way
permits and administration. This subchapter imposes reasonable regulation on
the placement and maintenance of facilities and equipment currently within its
rights-of-way or to be placed therein at some future time. It is intended to
complement the regulatory roles of state and federal agencies. Under this
subchapter, persons excavating and obstructing the rights-of-way will bear
financial responsibility for their work. Finally, this subchapter provides for
recovery of out-of-pocket and projected costs from persons using the public
rights-of-way.
   (C)   This subchapter shall be interpreted consistently with 1997 Session
Laws, Chapter 123, substantially codified in M.S. §§ 237.16, 237.162, 237.163,
237.79, 237.81 and 238.086 (the "Act"), as they may be amended from time to
time, and the other laws governing applicable rights of the city and users of
the right-of-way. This subchapter shall also be interpreted consistent with
Minn. Rules 7819.0050 to 7819.9950 where possible. To the extent any provision
of this subchapter cannot be interpreted consistently with the Minnesota Rules,
that interpretation most consistent with the Act and other applicable statutory
and case law is intended. This subchapter shall not be interpreted to limit the
regulatory and police powers of the city to adopt and enforce general
ordinances necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.
§ 90.151 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative and common law, the city hereby elects, pursuant M.S.
§ 237.163, Subdivision 2(b), as it may be amended from time to time, to manage
rights-of-way within its jurisdiction.
§ 90.152 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED FACILITY. A facility no longer in service or physically
disconnected from a portion of the operating facility, or from any other
facility, that is in use or still carries service. A facility is not abandoned
unless declared so by the right-of-way user.
   APPLICANT. Any person requesting permission to excavate or obstruct a right-
of-way.
   CITY. The City of Cannon Falls, Minnesota. For purposes of §
90.177, CITY means its elected officials, officers, employees and agents.
   COMMISSION. The State Public Utilities Commission.
   CONGESTED RIGHT-OF-WAY. A crowded condition in the subsurface of the public
right-of-way that occurs when the maximum lateral spacing between existing
underground facilities does not allow for construction of new underground
facilities without using hand digging to expose the existing lateral facilities
in conformance with M.S. § 216D.04, Subdivision 3, as it may be amended from
time to time, over a continuous length in excess of 500 feet.
   CONSTRUCTION PERFORMANCE BOND. Any of the following forms of security
provided at permittee's option:
      (1)   Individual project bond;
      (2)   Cash deposit;
      (3)   Security of a form listed or approved under M.S. § 15.73,
Subdivision 3, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (4)   Letter of credit, in a form acceptable to the city;
      (5)   Self-insurance, in a form acceptable to the city; and
      (6)   A blanket bond for projects within the city, or other form of
construction bond, for a time specified and in a form acceptable to the city.
   DEGRADATION. A decrease in the useful life of the right-of-way caused by
excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct the right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
or disturbance did not occur.
   DEGRADATION COST. Subject to Minn. Rules 7819.1100, means the cost to
achieve a level of restoration, as determined by the city at the time the
permit is issued, not to exceed the maximum restoration shown in plates 1 to
13, set forth in Minn. Rules parts 7819.9900 to 7819.9950.
   DEGRADATION FEE. The estimated fee established at the time of permitting by
the city to recover costs associated with the decrease in the useful life of
the right-of-way caused by the excavation, and which equals the degradation
cost.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Public Works of the city.
   DEPARTMENT INSPECTOR. Any person authorized by the city to carry out
inspections related to the provisions of this subchapter.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Public Works of the city, or her
or his designee.
   DELAY PENALTY. The penalty imposed as a result of unreasonable delays in
right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching or restoration as established by
permit.
   EMERGENCY. A condition that:
      (1)   Poses a danger to life or health, or of a significant loss of
property; or
      (2)   Requires immediate repair or replacement of facilities in order to
restore service to a customer.
   EQUIPMENT. Any tangible asset used to install, repair or maintain facilities
in any right-of-way.
   EXCAVATE. To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or
penetrate any part of a right-of-way.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this subchapter, must be
obtained before a person may excavate in a right-of-way. An EXCAVATION PERMIT
allows the holder to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in the
permit.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by an applicant to cover the
costs as provided in §
90.161.
   FACILITY or FACILITIES. Any tangible asset in the right-of-way required to
provide utility service.
   FIVE-YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the city for construction
within the next five years.
   HIGH DENSITY CORRIDOR. A designated portion of the public right-of-way
within which telecommunications right-of-way users having multiple and
competing facilities may be required to build and install facilities in a
common conduit system or other common structure.
   HOLE. An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length
less than the width of the pavement.
   LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE. A local person or persons, or designee of those person
or persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and to make decisions
for that registrant regarding all matters within the scope of this subchapter.
   MANAGEMENT COSTS. The actual costs the city incurs in managing its rights-
of-way, including costs, if incurred, as those associated with registering
applicants; issuing, processing and verifying right-of-way permit applications;
inspecting job sites and restoration projects; maintaining, supporting,
protecting, or moving user facilities during right-of-way work; determining the
adequacy of right-of-way restoration; restoring work inadequately performed
after providing notice and the opportunity to correct the work; and revoking
right-of-way permits. MANAGEMENT COSTS do not include payment by a
telecommunications right-of-way user for the use of the right-of-way, the fees
and cost of litigation relating to the interpretation of Minnesota Session Laws
1997, Chapter 123; M.S. § 237.162 or § 237.163, as they may be amended from
time to time; or any ordinance enacted under those sections, or the city fees
and costs related to appeals taken pursuant to §
90.179 of this subchapter.
   OBSTRUCT. To place any tangible object in a right-of-way so as to hinder
free and open passage over that or any part of the right-of-way.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this subchapter, must be
obtained before a person may obstruct a right-of-way, allowing the holder to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of that right-of-way,
for the duration specified therein.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by a permittee to cover the
costs as provided in §
90.161.
   PATCH or PATCHING.
      (1)   A method of pavement replacement that is temporary in nature.
      (2)   A PATCH consists of:
         (a)   The compaction of the subbase and aggregate base; and
         (b)   The replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement for a minimum
of two feet beyond the edges of the excavation in all directions.
      (3)   A PATCH is considered full restoration only when the pavement is
included in the city's five-year project plan.
   PAVEMENT. Any type of improved surface that is within the public right-of-
way and that is paved or otherwise constructed with bituminous, concrete,
aggregate or gravel.
   PERMIT. The meaning given RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT in M.S. § 237.162, as it may
be amended from time to time.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a permit to excavate or obstruct a right-of-
way has been granted by the city under this subchapter.
   PERSON. An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of this state,
however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or foreign,
whether for profit or nonprofit, and whether natural, corporate or political.
   PROBATION. The status of a person that has not complied with the conditions
of this subchapter.
   PROBATIONARY PERIOD. One year from the date that a person has been notified
in writing that he or she has been put on probation.
   REGISTRANT. Any person who:
      (1)   Has or seeks to have its equipment or facilities located in any
right-of-way; or
      (2)   In any way occupies or uses or seeks to occupy or use, the right-
of-way or place its facilities or equipment in the right-of-way.
   RESTORE or RESTORATION. The process by which an excavated right-of-way and
surrounding area, including pavement and foundation, is returned to the same
condition and life expectancy that existed before excavation.
   RESTORATION COST. The amount of money paid to the city by a permittee to
achieve the level of restoration according to plates 1 to 13 of Minnesota
Public Utilities Commission rules.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, cartway, bicycle lane or public sidewalk in which the city has an
interest, including other dedicated rights-of-way for travel purposes and
utility easements of the city. A RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include the airwaves
above a right-of-way with regard to cellular or other nonwire
telecommunications or broadcast service.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT. Either the excavation permit or the obstruction permit,
or both, depending on the context, required by this subchapter.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY USER.
      (1)   A telecommunications right-of-way user as defined by M.S. §
237.162, subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to time; or
      (2)   A person owning or controlling a facility in the right-of-way that
is used or intended to be used for providing utility service, and who has a
right under law, franchise or ordinance to use the public right-of-way.
   SERVICE or UTILITY SERVICE.
      (1)   Those services provided by a public utility as defined in M.S. §
216B.02, Subdivisions 4 and 6, as they may be amended from time to time;
      (2)   Services of a telecommunications right-of-way user, including
transporting of voice or data information;
      (3)   Services of a cable communications systems as defined in M.S.
Chapter 238, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (4)   Natural gas or electric energy or telecommunications services
provided by the city;
      (5)   Services provided by a cooperative electric association organized
under M.S. Chapter 308A, as it may be amended from time to time; and
      (6)   Water and sewer, including service laterals, steam, cooling or
heating services.
   SERVICE LATERAL. An underground facility that is used to transmit,
distribute or furnish gas, electricity, communications or water from a common
source to an end-use customer. A SERVICE LATERAL is also an underground
facility that is used in the removal of wastewater from a customer's premises.
   SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION. An application made to excavate or obstruct more
of the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend, a permit that had already
been issued.
   TEMPORARY SURFACE. The compaction of subbase and aggregate base and
replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement only to the edges of the
excavation. It is TEMPORARY in nature except when the replacement is of
pavement included in the city's two-year plan, in which case it is considered
full restoration.
   TRENCH. An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length
equal to or greater than the width of the pavement.
   TELECOMMUNICATION RIGHT-OF-WAY USER. A person owning or controlling a
facility in the right-of-way, or seeking to own or control a facility in the
right-of-way, that is used or is intended to be used for transporting
telecommunication or other voice or data information. For purposes of this
subchapter, a cable communication system defined and regulated under M.S.
Chapter 238, as it may be amended from time to time, and telecommunication
activities related to providing natural gas or electric energy services whether
provided by a public utility as defined in M.S. § 216B.02, as it may be amended
from time to time, a municipality, a municipal gas or power agency organized
under M.S. Chapters 453 and 453A, as they may be amended from time to time, or
a cooperative electric association organized under M.S. Chapter 308A, as it may
be amended from time to time, are not TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY USERS for
purposes of this subchapter.
   TWO YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the city for construction
within the next two years.
§ 90.153 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Director is the principal city official responsible for the
administration of the rights-of-way, right-of-way permits and the ordinances
related thereto. The Director may delegate any or all of the duties hereunder.
§ 90.154 UTILITY COORDINATION COMMITTEE.
   The city may create an advisory utility coordination committee.
Participation on the committee is voluntary. It will be composed of any
registrants that wish to assist the city in obtaining information and, by
making recommendations regarding use of the right-of-way, and to improve the
process of performing construction work therein. The city may determine the
size of the committee and shall appoint members from a list of registrants that
have expressed a desire to assist the city.
§ 90.155 REGISTRATION AND RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Registration. Each person who occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or
use, the right-of-way or place any equipment or facilities in or on the right-
of-way, including persons with installation and maintenance responsibilities by
lease, sublease or assignment, must register with the city. Registration will
consist of providing application information and paying a registration fee.
   (B)   Registration prior to work. No person may construct, install, repair,
remove, relocate or perform any other work on, or use any facilities or any
part thereof, in any right-of-way without first being registered with the city.
   (C)   Exceptions. Nothing herein shall be construed to repeal or amend the
provisions of a city ordinance permitting persons to plant or maintain
boulevard plantings or gardens in the area of the right-of-way between their
property and the street curb. Persons planting or maintaining boulevard
plantings or gardens shall not be deemed to use or occupy the right-of-way, and
shall not be required to obtain any permits or satisfy any other requirements
for planting or maintaining boulevard plantings or gardens under this
subchapter. However, nothing herein relieves a person from complying with the
provisions of the M.S. Chapter 216D, Gopher One Call Law, as it may be amended
from time to time.
§ 90.156 REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information required. The information provided to the city at the time
of registration shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Each registrant's name, Gopher One-Call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers;
      (2)   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration;
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state or a
form of self-insurance acceptable to the city;
         (b)   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the:
            1.   Use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees and permittees; and
            2.   Placement and use of facilities and equipment in the right-of-
way by the registrant, his, her or its officers, agents, employees and
permittees, including, but not limited to, protection against liability arising
from completed operations, damage of underground facilities and collapse of
property.
         (c)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all coverages;
         (d)   Requiring that the city be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term; and
         (e)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the city in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to carry
out the purposes and policies of this subchapter.
      (4)   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies;
      (5)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate is
required to be filed under M.S. § 302A.155, as it may be amended from time to
time, as recorded and certified to by the Secretary of State; and
      (6)   A copy of the person's order granting a certificate of authority
from the State Public Utilities Commission or other applicable state or federal
agency, where the person is lawfully required to have the certificate from the
Commission or other state or federal agency.
   (B)   Notice of changes. The registrant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times by providing to the city information as to
changes within 15 days following the date on which the registrant has knowledge
of any change.
§ 90.157 REPORTING OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Operations.
      (1)   Each registrant shall, at the time of registration and by December
1 of each year, file a construction and major maintenance plan for underground
facilities with the city. The plan shall be submitted using a format designated
by the city and shall contain the information determined by the city to be
necessary to facilitate the coordination and reduction in the frequency of
excavations and obstructions of rights-of-way.
      (2)   The plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
         (a)   The locations and the estimated beginning and ending dates of
all projects to be commenced during the next calendar year (in this section, a
"next-year project"); and
         (b)   To the extent known, the tentative locations and estimated
beginning and ending dates for all projects contemplated for the five years
following the next calendar year (in this section, a "five-year project").
      (3)   The term PROJECT in this section shall include both next-year
projects and five-year projects.
      (4)   By January 1 of each year, the city will have available for
inspection in the city's office a composite list of all projects of which the
city has been informed of the annual plans. All registrants are responsible for
keeping themselves informed of the current status of this list.
      (5)   Thereafter, by February 1, each registrant may change any project
in its list of next-year projects, and must notify the city and all other
registrants of all changes in the list. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a
registrant may at any time join in a next-year project of another registrant
listed by the other registrant.
   (B)   Additional next-year projects. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
will not deny an application for a right-of-way permit for failure to include a
project in a plan submitted to the city if the registrant has used commercially
reasonable efforts to anticipate and plan for the project.
§ 90.158 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way without first having obtained the
appropriate right-of-way permit from the city to do so.
      (a)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required by a registrant
to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in the permit and to hinder
free and open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by placing
facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified
therein.
      (b)   Obstruction permit. An obstruction permit is required by a
registrant to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of right-
of-way by placing equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the
extent and for the duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not
required if a person already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same
project.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless:
      (1)   The person makes a supplementary application for another right-of-
way permit before the expiration of the initial permit; and
      (2)   A new permit or permit extension is granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rules 7819.1000 subpart 3 and
notwithstanding division (B) above of this section, the city shall establish
and impose a delay penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation,
obstruction, patching or restoration. The delay penalty shall be established
from time to time by City Council resolution.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this subchapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the city.
§ 90.159 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit is made to the city. Right-of-way permit
applications shall contain, and will be considered complete only upon
compliance with, the requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Registration with the city pursuant to this subchapter;
   (B)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities;
   (C)   Payment of money due the city for:
      (1)   Permit fees, estimated restoration costs and other management
costs;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage or expense suffered by the city because
of applicant's prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way or any
emergency actions taken by the city; and
      (4)   Franchise fees or other charges, if applicable.
   (D)   Payment of disputed amounts due the city by posting security or
depositing in an escrow account an amount equal to at least 110% of the amount
owing; and
   (E)   Posting an additional or larger construction performance bond for
additional facilities when applicant requests an excavation permit to install
additional facilities and the city deems the existing construction performance
bond inadequate under applicable standards.
§ 90.160 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this subchapter, the city shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The city may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use.
§ 90.161 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. The city shall establish an excavation permit
fee in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      (1)   The city management costs; and
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstruction permit fee. The city shall establish the obstruction
permit fee and shall be in an amount sufficient to recover the city management
costs.
   (C)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of excavation or obstruction permit fees. The
city may allow applicant to pay the fees within 30 days of billing.
   (D)   Nonrefundable. Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the city
has revoked for a breach as stated in §
90.171 are not refundable.
   (E)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
§ 90.162 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as not seasonal or unreasonable under §
90.165.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. Permittee shall patch its own work. The city
may choose either to have the permittee restore the right-of-way or to restore
the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, permittee
shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If, following the
restoration, the pavement settles due to permittee's improper backfilling, the
permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, all costs
associated with correcting the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rules
7819.3000.
      (3)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee. However,
the right-of-way user shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation
fee shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform excavation, backfilling,
patching and restoration according to the standards and with the materials
specified by the city and shall comply with Minn. Rules 7819.1100.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching or restoration performed by permittee or its agents. The permittee
upon notification from the city, shall correct all restoration work to the
extent necessary, using the method required by the city. The work shall be
completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the city,
not including days during which work cannot be done because of circumstances
constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as unseasonable or
unreasonable under §
90.165.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the city, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the city, the
city at its option may do the work. In that event the permittee shall pay to
the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way. If
permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its rights under the
construction performance bond.
§ 90.163 JOINT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Joint application. Registrants may jointly apply for permits to
excavate or obstruct the right-of-way at the same place and time.
   (B)   Shared fees. Registrants who apply for permits for the same
obstruction or excavation, which the city does not perform, may share in the
payment of the obstruction or excavation permit fee. In order to obtain a joint
permit, registrants must agree among themselves as to the portion each will pay
and indicate the same on their applications.
   (C)   With city projects. Registrants who join in a scheduled obstruction or
excavation performed by the city, whether or not it is a joint application by
two or more registrants or a single application, are not required to pay the
excavation or obstruction and degradation portions of the permit fee, but a
permit would still be required.
§ 90.164 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater
area:
      (1)   Make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees
required thereby; and
      (2)   Be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date.
§ 90.165 OTHER OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with other laws. Obtaining a right-of-way permit does not
relieve permittee of its duty to obtain all other necessary permits, licenses
and authority and to pay all fees required by the city or other applicable
rule, law or regulation. A permittee shall comply with all requirements of
local, state and federal laws, including but not limited to M.S. § 216D.01 -.09
(Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System), as it may be amended from time to
time, and Minn. Rules Chapter 7560. A permittee shall perform all work in
conformance with all applicable codes and established rules and regulations,
and is responsible for all work done in the right-of-way pursuant to its
permit, regardless of who does the work.
   (B)   Prohibited work. Except in an emergency, and with the approval of the
city, no right-of-way obstruction or excavation may be done when seasonally
prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for the work.
   (C)   Interference with right-of-way. A permittee shall not so obstruct a
right-of-way that the natural free and clear passage of water through the
gutters or other waterways shall be interfered with. Private vehicles of those
doing work in the right-of-way may not be parked within or next to a permit
area, unless parked in conformance with city parking regulations. The loading
or unloading of trucks must be done solely within the defined permit area
unless specifically authorized by the permit.
   (D)   Trenchless excavation. As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including but not limited
to horizontal directional drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
M.S. Chapter 216D, as it may be amended from time to time, and Minn. Rules
Chapter 7560, and shall require potholing or open cutting over existing
underground utilities before excavating, as determined by the Director.
§ 90.166 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements and
conditions of this subchapter or if the city determines that the denial is
necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its current use.
§ 90.167 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules
7819.1100 and 7819.5000 and other applicable local requirements, in so far as
they are not inconsistent with the M.S. §§ 237.162 and 237.163, as they may be
amended from time to time. Installation of service laterals shall be performed
in accordance with Minn. Rules Chapter 7560 and these ordinances. Service
lateral installation is further subject to those requirements and conditions
set forth by the city in the applicable permits and/or agreements referenced in
§
90.172(B) of this subchapter.
§ 90.168 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
Minn. Rules 7819.1300.
   (B)   Site inspection. Permittee shall make the work-site available to the
city and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable
times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of Director.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the Director may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety
or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The Director may issue an order to the permittee for any work that
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the Director that
the violation has been corrected. If proof has not been presented within the
required time, the Director may revoke the permit pursuant to §
90.171.
§ 90.169 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations.
      (1)   Each registrant shall immediately notify the Director of any event
regarding its facilities that it considers to be an emergency. The registrant
may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary to respond to the emergency.
Excavators' notification to Gopher State One Call regarding an emergency
situation does not fulfill this requirement. Within two business days after the
occurrence of the emergency, the registrant shall apply for the necessary
permits, pay the fees associated therewith, and fulfill the rest of the
requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with this subchapter for
the actions it took in response to the emergency.
      (2)   If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding a registrant's
facilities, the city will attempt to contact the local representative of each
registrant affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event,
the city may take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the
emergency, the cost of which shall be borne by the registrant whose facilities
occasioned the emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit and, as a penalty, pay double
the normal fee for the permit, pay double all the other fees required by the
city code, deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to
the right-of-way, and comply with all of the requirements of this subchapter.
§ 90.170 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the city of
the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
§ 90.171 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit without a fee refund, if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner, unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittee's control; or
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
90.168.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit, the city shall make
a written demand upon the permittee to remedy the violation. The demand shall
state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the permit. A
substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its discretion, to
place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate and remedy the
breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city, that will cure the breach. Permittee's failure to so
contact the city, or permittee's failure to timely submit an acceptable plan,
or permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be
cause for immediate revocation of the permit. Further, permittee's failure to
so contact the city, or permittee's failure to submit an acceptable plan, or
permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall
automatically place the permittee on probation for one full year.
   (D)   Cause for probation. From time to time, the city may establish a list
of conditions of the permit, which if breached will automatically place the
permittee on probation for one full year, such as, but not limited to, working
out of the allotted time period or working on right-of-way grossly outside of
the permit authorization.
   (E)   Automatic revocation. If a permittee, while on probation, commits a
breach as outlined above, permittee's permit will automatically be revoked and
permittee will not be allowed further permits for one full year, except for
emergency repairs.
   (F)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city's reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys' fees
incurred in connection with the revocation.
§ 90.172 MAPPING DATA.
   (A)   Information required. Each registrant and permittee shall provide
mapping information required by the city in accordance with Minn. Rules
7819.4000 and 7819.4100. Within 90 days following completion of any work
pursuant to a permit, the permittee shall provide the Director accurate maps
and drawings certifying the "as-built" location of all equipment installed,
owned and maintained by the permittee. The maps and drawings shall include the
horizontal and vertical location of all facilities and equipment and shall be
provided consistent with the city's electronic mapping system, when practical
or as a condition imposed by the Director. Failure to provide maps and drawings
pursuant to this division shall be grounds for revoking the permit holder's
registration.
   (B)   Service laterals.
      (1)   All permits issued for the installation or repair of service
laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minn. Rules 7560.0150 subpart
2, shall require the permittee's use of appropriate means of establishing the
horizontal locations of installed service laterals, and the service lateral
vertical locations in those cases where the Director reasonably requires it.
Permittees or their subcontractors shall submit to the Director evidence
satisfactory to the Director of the installed service lateral locations.
      (2)   Compliance with this division (B) and with applicable Gopher State
One Call law and Minnesota Rules governing service laterals installed after
December 31, 2005, shall be a condition of any city approval necessary for:
         (a)   Payments to contractors working on a public improvement project
including those under M.S. Chapter 429, as it may be amended from time to time;
and
         (b)   City approval of performance under development agreements, or
other subdivision or site plan approval under M.S. Chapter 462, as it may be
amended from time to time.
      (3)   The Director shall reasonably determine the appropriate method of
providing the information to the city. Failure to provide prompt and accurate
information on the service laterals installed may result in the revocation of
the permit issued for the work or for future permits to the offending permittee
or its subcontractors.
§ 90.173 LOCATION AND RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Placement, location and relocation. Placement, location and relocation
of facilities must comply with the Act, with other applicable law, and with
Minn. Rules 7819.3100, 7819.5000 and 7819.5100, to the extent the rules do not
limit authority otherwise available to cities.
   (B)   Corridors.
      (1)   The city may assign a specific area within the right-of-way, or any
particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of facilities
that is or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will someday be
located within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction or other permits
issued by the city involving the installation or replacement of facilities
shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
      (2)   Any registrant who has facilities in the right-of-way in a position
at variance with the corridors established by the city shall, no later than at
the time of the next reconstruction or excavation of the area where the
facilities are located, move the facilities to the assigned position within the
right-of-way, unless this requirement is waived by the city for good cause
shown, upon consideration of factors such as the remaining economic life of the
facilities, public safety, customer service needs and hardship to the
registrant.
   (C)   Limitation of space.
      (1)   To protect health, safety and welfare, or when necessary to protect
the right-of-way and its current use, the city shall have the power to prohibit
or limit the placement of new or additional facilities within the right-of-way.
      (2)   In making these decisions, the city shall strive to the extent
possible to accommodate all existing and potential users of the right-of-way,
but shall be guided primarily by considerations of the public interest, the
public's needs for the particular utility service, the condition of the right-
of-way, the time of year with respect to essential utilities, the protection of
existing facilities in the right-of-way and future city plans for public
improvements and development projects which have been determined to be in the
public interest.
   (D)   Undergrounding. Unless otherwise agreed in a franchise between the
applicable right-of-way user and the city, facilities in the right-of-way must
be located or relocated and maintained underground in accordance with §§
150.085 through
150.089 of the city code.
§ 90.174 PRE-EXCAVATION FACILITIES LOCATION.
   In addition to complying with the requirements of M.S. § 216D.01-.09 ("One
Call Excavation Notice System"), as it may be amended from time to time, before
the start date of any right-of-way excavation, each registrant who has
facilities or equipment in the area to be excavated shall mark the horizontal
and vertical placement of all facilities. Any registrant whose facilities are
less than 20 inches below a concrete or asphalt surface shall notify and work
closely with the excavation contractor to establish the exact location of its
facilities and the best procedure for excavation.
§ 90.175 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support or move a registrant's facilities to protect it, the city
shall notify the local representative as early as is reasonably possible. The
costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and must be paid
within 30 days from the date of billing. Each registrant shall be responsible
for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way which it or its
facilities damage. Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost of
repairing any damage to the facilities of another registrant caused during the
city's response to an emergency occasioned by that registrant's facilities.
§ 90.176 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   If the city vacates a right-of-way that contains the facilities of a
registrant, the registrant's rights in the vacated right-of-way are governed by
Minn. Rules 7819.3200.
§ 90.177 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By registering with the city, or by accepting a permit under this
subchapter, a registrant or permittee agrees to defend and indemnify the city
in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rules 7819.1250.
§ 90.178 ABANDONED AND UNUSED FACILITIES.
   (A)   Discontinued operations. A registrant who has determined to
discontinue all or a portion of its operations in the city must provide
information satisfactory to the city that the registrant's obligations for its
facilities in the right-of-way under this subchapter have been lawfully assumed
by another registrant.
   (B)   Removal. Any registrant who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-
way shall remove it from that right-of-way if required in conjunction with
other right-of-way repair, excavation or construction, unless this requirement
is waived by the city.
§ 90.179 APPEAL.
   (A)   A right-of-way user may have the denial, revocation or fee imposition
reviewed, upon written request, by the City Council if he or she:
      (1)   Has been denied registration;
      (2)   Has been denied a permit;
      (3)   Has had a permit revoked;
      (4)   Believes that the fees imposed are not in conformity with M.S. §
237.163, Subdivision 6, as it may be amended from time to time; or
      (5)   Disputes a determination of the Director regarding §
90.172(B) of this subchapter.
   (B)   The City Council shall act on a timely written request at its next
regularly scheduled meeting, provided the right-of-way user has submitted its
appeal with sufficient time to include the appeal as a regular agenda item. A
decision by the City Council affirming the denial, revocation or fee imposition
will be in writing and supported by written findings establishing the
reasonableness of the decision.
§ 90.180 SEVERABILITY.
   If any portion of this subchapter is for any reason held invalid by any
court of competent jurisdiction, that portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct and independent provision and the holding shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions thereof. Nothing in this subchapter
precludes the city from requiring a franchise agreement with the applicant, as
allowed by law, in addition to requirements set forth herein.
CHAPTER 91: NOISE
Section
Vehicular Noise
   
91.01   Declaration
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Noise prohibited
   
91.04   Vehicular noise control
Noise
   
91.15   Noise amplification
   
91.16   Construction, maintenance and repair activities
VEHICULAR NOISE
§ 91.01 DECLARATION.
   There has come into being within the city certain loud, avoidable, unnatural
and unnecessary noises, which under certain circumstances and conditions,
constitute a serious threat to the health, the welfare, the contentment and the
feeling of well-being of the people. Therefore, the Council does declare that
the doing of these things in a manner prohibited by, or not in conformity with,
the terms of this subchapter constitutes an undesirable noise and shall be
punished as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 8.20, Subd. 1)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMBIENT NOISE LEVEL. The sound level which exists at a point of measurement
in the absence of the sound the noise emission of which is measured, being the
total effect of all other sounds coming from near and far.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Any of the following vehicles when equipped
and identified according to law:
      (1)   A vehicle of a Fire Department;
      (2)   A publicly owned police vehicle or a privately owned vehicle used
by a police officer for police work under agreement, express or implied with
the local authority to which he or she is responsible;
      (3)   An ambulance, whether publicly or privately owned;
      (4)   An emergency vehicle of a municipal department or a public service
corporation; and/or
      (5)   Any volunteer rescue squad operating pursuant to M.S. § 383C.425.
   AUXILIARY DEVICE. An instrument, tool, instrument, appliance, utensil or
contrivance.
   BACK-UP ALARM DEVICE. A warning device in any truck such as a horn, bell or
whistle in the rear thereof, sounded only while the truck is backing up.
   CENTERLINE OF A VEHICLE. A line which passes through the geometric center of
a vehicle, or, if the vehicle is in motion, that line passing through the
geometric center of the vehicle along which the geometric center moves.
   DAY. The 24-hour time period starting at local midnight, 12:00 a.m.
   DAYTIME. 6:00 a.m. through 6:00 p.m.
   dB. Abbreviation for decibel.
   dBA. A composite abbreviation for decibel and A-weighted sound level.
   DECIBEL. Unit of sound level.
   EMERGENCY SITUATION. A situation wherein immediate work is necessary to
restore property to a safe condition following a public calamity or immediate
work is required to protect persons or property from an imminent exposure to
danger.
   EMIT. The noise emitted by a vehicle shall be construed as the noise level
created at a specified distance from the vehicle. It shall not be construed as
the maximum noise-generating capability of a vehicle.
   EVENING. The time period from 6:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.
   EXCESSIVE NOISE. Sound which is injurious or which unreasonably interferes
with the comfortable enjoyment of life and property. Measured noise levels in
excess of those specified as limits in these regulations or those specified in
a valid permit are declared to be excessive.
   GOOD PROFESSIONAL PRACTICE. The methods and procedures used by a person
whose skills have been developed by intensive training and by experience and
whose work is accepted by others of similar training and experience as
competent.
   HEAVY VEHICLE. A vehicle which has a gross weight in excess of 12,000
pounds, or which has a passenger capacity in excess of 15.
   HOLIDAY. A day fixed by the United States or by state law for suspension of
business in whole or in part.
   LIGHT VEHICLE. A vehicle not specifically identified as a heavy vehicle.
   MEASUREMENT DISTANCE. The shortest interval of length between a centerline
of a vehicle and a point of measurement
   NEAREST POINT OF VEHICLE APPROACH. The point along the centerline of vehicle
travel which is closest to the point of measurement.
   NIGHT. The time period from 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
   NOISE. Sound of any sort and its environmental interaction.
   NOISE LEVEL. The sound level.
   OPERATE. Perform any operation with or on a vehicle or auxiliary device at
any time or under any condition of grade, load, acceleration or deceleration.
   OWNER. The legal owner of a vehicle including lessee (of whatever term) and
the purchaser of a vehicle under a conditional sales contract but and not
including the holder of a security interest therein.
   POINT OF MEASUREMENT. The point in space at which the microphone of the
sound measurement equipment is located.
   SOUND LEVEL. A quantity measured with a sound level meter and expressed in
decibels.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument, or combination of instruments, which meets
or exceeds the requirements for a type S1A or S2A sound level meter as
specified in American National Standards Institute specification for sound
level meters S14-1971, or its most recent revision.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. The value in decibels expressing the relationship
between a root-mean-square sound pressure, p, and a reference pressure, Pref,
where sound pressure level and Pref = 0.0002 microbar. The abbreviation for
sound pressure level is SPL.
 
(SPL) = LOG p
            10 pref
 
   TRAFFIC WAY. The entire area within the property lines of every way or
place, including parking areas, publicly or privately owned or maintained,
which is open to the use of the public for purposes of automotive traffic.
   VEHICLE. Any device, or combination of devices, used for or capable of being
used for transporting persons or property. VEHICLES include, but are not
limited to, the following: automobiles; trucks; buses, motorcycles; motorized
bicycles; scooters; go-carts, midget racers and the like devices; farm
machinery; industrial machinery; highway graders; trailers and semitrailers.
(Prior Code, § 8.20, Subd. 2)
§ 91.03 NOISE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful to make, continue or cause to be made or continued any noise
in excess of the noise levels hereinafter set forth unless the noise be
reasonably necessary to the preservation of life, health, safety or property.
(Prior Code, § 8.20, Subd. 3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 VEHICULAR NOISE CONTROL.
   (A)   Purpose and scope. It is the purpose of these regulations to state the
maximum sound levels that vehicles shall be allowed to emit when used on
traffic ways of the city. These regulations are intended to limit maximum sound
levels to those consistent with the physical, mental and social well-being of
the people.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   These regulations shall apply to all vehicles wherever operated on
the traffic ways of the city.
      (2)   These regulations shall apply to sounds of any time duration.
      (3)   For the purpose of these regulations, those persons who are the
vehicle owner(s) or operator(s) may be held responsible separately or jointly
for a violation.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   All vehicular warning devices authorized for use under the Traffic
Code of the city; and
      (2)   Back-up alarm devices on trucks when installed and operated in
accordance with the Society of Automotive Engineers Recommended Practice 1994,
Criteria for Back-up Alarm Devices.
   (D)   Light vehicles. It is unlawful for any person to operate, nor shall
its owner permit the operation of a light vehicle, or any auxiliary device
attached to or required for the operation of the vehicle, on any traffic way in
a manner that it emits noise at levels in excess of the limits specified in
Table A-1.
Table A-1: Noise Level Limits for Light Vehicles Operated in Cannon Falls on
or after 1-1-1977
                   Measurement District from Centerline of a Vehicle
Posted Speed Limit 20 Feet 25 Feet 50 Feet
Table A-1: Noise Level Limits for Light Vehicles Operated in Cannon Falls on
or after 1-1-1977
                   Measurement District from Centerline of a Vehicle
Posted Speed Limit 20 Feet 25 Feet 50 Feet
25 mph or less     69 dBA  67 dBA  61 dBA
30 mph             71 dBA  69 dBA  63 dBA
35 mph             73 dBA  71 dBA  65 dBA
40 mph             75 dBA  73 dBA  67 dBA
45 mph             77 dBA  75 dBA  69 dBA
50 mph             79 dBA  77 dBA  71 dBA
55 mph             81 dBA  79 dBA  73 dBA
60 mph or more     83 dBA  81 dBA  75 dBA
 
   (E)   Heavy vehicles. It is unlawful for any person to operate nor shall its
owner permit the operation of a heavy vehicle or any auxiliary device attached
to or required for the operation of the vehicle on any traffic way in a manner
that it emits noise at levels in excess of the limits specified in Table B-1.
Table B-1: Noise Level Limits for Heavy Vehicles Operated in Cannon Falls on
or after 1-1-1977
Posted Speed Limit Time Periods When Measurement Distance from Centerline of a
                   Applicable        Vehicle
                                     25 Feet 25 Feet 50 Feet
Table B-1: Noise Level Limits for Heavy Vehicles Operated in Cannon Falls on
or after 1-1-1977
Posted Speed Limit Time Periods When Measurement Distance from Centerline of a
                   Applicable        Vehicle
                                     25 Feet 25 Feet 50 Feet
35 mph or less     Daytime           83 dBA  81 dBA  75 dBA
                   Evening           75 dBA  73 dBA  67 dBA
                   Night             73 dBA  71 dBA  65 dBA
                   Holiday           73 dBA  71 dBA  65 dBA
                   Sunday            73 dBA  71 dBA  65 dBA
More than 35 mph   All               83 dBA  81 dBA  75 dBA
 
   (F)   Mufflers.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to operate, nor shall its owner
permit the operation of, a vehicle on a traffic way with a motor the exhaust
system of which has been altered, modified or repaired in a way that the noise
emitted by the motor's exhaust system is increased above that emitted by the
exhaust system with which the motor came originally equipped from the
manufacturer.
      (2)   The burden of proof shall be on the owner and/or operator of a
vehicle with an altered, modified, repaired or reconstructed motor exhaust
system to submit evidence that the system meets the provisions of division (F)
(1) above.
   (G)   Measurement of noise levels.
      (1)   Persons who measure noise levels for the purpose of enforcing these
regulations shall be trained in the techniques of sound measurement and
qualified in the use of the instruments required to make the measurements.
      (2)   A sound level meter shall be used in measuring noise levels, except
that:
         (a)   The B and C weighting networks and the "slow" meter dynamic
response characteristic need not be incorporated; and
         (b)   A "hold" network may be incorporated.
      (3)   Measurements shall be made in accordance with good professional
practice. In particular:
         (a)   The "A" weighting network shall be used;
         (b)   The "fast" meter response characteristic shall be used when
measuring vehicular noise levels;
         (c)   Sound level calibrators of the auxiliary closed-coupler type
specified in ANSI Standard S1.4-1971, or its most recent revision shall be
used;
         (d)   Windscreens shall be used whenever appropriate;
         (e)   Where measurements are made of vehicles in motion, the traffic
way surface near the point of measurement shall normally be dry, of concrete or
asphalt, free of extraneous loose material and free of sharp bumps, chuckholes,
wide cracks and patches needing repair;
         (f)   Measurements shall normally not be used for enforcement unless
the noise level at a point of measurement while a vehicle is operated is three
or more decibels greater than the ambient noise level; and
         (g)   The ambient noise level may be estimated from sound levels
measured before and/or after the passage of a moving vehicle or by sound levels
measured at one or more points near the point of measurement.
(Prior Code, § 8.20, Subd. 4)
NOISE
§ 91.15 NOISE AMPLIFICATION.
   (A)   No person shall use, operate or permit the use or operation of any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, tape or disc player,
paging system, machine or other device for the production or reproduction of
sound in a distinctly and loudly audible manner as to unreasonably disturb the
peace, quiet and comfort of any person nearby.
   (B)   Operation of any device between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
in a manner as to be plainly audible at the property line of a structure or
building in which it is located, in the hallway or apartment adjacent, or at a
distance of 50 feet if the source is located outside a structure or building,
shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section. Operation of any
device at any time in a motor vehicle in a manner as to be plainly audible at a
distance of 50 feet from the motor vehicle shall be prima facie evidence of a
violation of this section.
   (C)   When sound violating this section is produced or reproduced by any
device that is located in a motor vehicle, the motor vehicle's owner, if
present when the violation occurs, is guilty of the violation. If the motor
vehicle's owner is not present at the time of the violation, the person driving
the vehicle at the time of the violation is guilty of the violation. In
addition to an owner or a driver, any person who controls or assists with the
production of sound violating this section is guilty of the violation.
   (D)   Any device alleged to be used in violation of this section may be
seized for evidence and held until the final disposition of the court case. Any
device is subject to forfeiture if it was used in the commission of a violation
of this section which results in a conviction.
   (E)   This section shall not apply for special events issued a permit by the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 10.26, Subd. 1)
§ 91.16 CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR ACTIVITIES.
   No person shall engage in or permit outdoor construction, maintenance and
repair activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel or gas-
powered motor vehicle or machine or other power equipment except between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. The following are exempt from this section:
   (A)   Snow removal; and
   (B)   Excavation and grading operations, if the city has issued a permit in
which different hours are specified.
(Ord. 266, passed 9-7-2006)
CHAPTER 92: REFUSE
Section
Storage, Deposit and Disposal of Refuse
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Storage
   
92.03   Deposit
   
92.04   Commercial burning
Maintenance of Construction Sites
   
92.15   Contractor responsibility
   
92.16   Adjacent lots
   
92.17   Dumpsters
STORAGE, DEPOSIT AND DISPOSAL OF REFUSE
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any premises where a commercial or industrial
enterprise of any kind is carried on, and shall include restaurants, clubs,
churches and schools where food is prepared or served.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any building used for residential purposes consisting of
more than four dwelling units with individual kitchen facilities for each.
   REFUSE. Includes all organic material resulting from the manufacture,
preparation or serving of food or food products and spoiled, decayed or waste
foods from any source, bottles, cans, glassware, paper or paper products,
crockery, ashes, rags and discarded clothing, tree or lawn clippings, leaves,
weeds and other waste products, except human waste or waste resulting from
building construction or demolition.
   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING. Any single building consisting of one through four
dwelling units with individual kitchen facilities for each.
(Prior Code, § 10.01, Subd. 1)
§ 92.02 STORAGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to store refuse on residential dwelling
premises for more than one week. All storage shall be in five- to 30-gallon
metal or plastic containers with tight-fitting covers, which shall be
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition; provided, that tree leaves, weeds
and grass clippings may be stored in plastic bags and tree limbs must be stored
in bundles weighing no more than 75 pounds and no longer than four feet.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to store refuse on multiple dwelling
premises for more than one week. The storage shall be in containers as for
residential dwelling premises, except that so-called "dumpsters" with close-
fitting covers may be substituted.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to store refuse on commercial
establishment premises for more than one week. The storage shall be in
containers as for residential dwelling premises, except that so-called
"dumpsters" with close-fitting covers may be substituted.
   (D)   It is unlawful to store organic refuse unless it is drained and
wrapped.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person to permit a refuse container to remain
on the front yard (as that term is defined in
Chapter 152) of premises occupied by the person, except on the day designated
for refuse pickup service to the premises.
(Prior Code, § 10.01, Subd. 2) (Ord. 16, effective 7-17-1981; Ord. 110,
effective 1-5-1990) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 DEPOSIT.
   It is unlawful for any person to deposit refuse from any source, rubbish,
offal or the body of a dead animal, in any place other than a sanitary
landfill.
(Prior Code, § 10.01, Subd. 3) (Ord. 16, effective 7-17-1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 COMMERCIAL BURNING.
   It is unlawful for any person to commercially burn refuse, as defined in
this subchapter, or any other material or thing. For the purpose of this
section, COMMERCIALLY BURN means any burning, for a consideration, of refuse or
other material or thing generated by a use (as that term is defined in §
152.021) not present upon the immediate premises on which the burning takes
place.
(Prior Code, § 10.01, Subd. 4) (Ord. 93, effective 10-14-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
MAINTENANCE OF CONSTRUCTION SITES
§ 92.15 CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITY.
   It is the primary responsibility of any contractor, subcontractor, developer
and property owner to remove all building construction and demolition debris
from construction sites. No person shall store waste resulting from building
construction or demolition upon any property unless it is contained in covered
containers. Additional debris including refuse or other waste shall be disposed
of at legal disposal sites.
(Prior Code, § 10.03, Subd. 1) (Ord. 207, effective 10-27-2000)
§ 92.16 ADJACENT LOTS.
   It is the primary responsibility of any contractor, subcontractor, developer
and property owner to remove from any adjacent or neighboring lot, all building
construction and demolition debris that may leave the construction site. The
debris must be removed on a daily basis and must be stored or disposed of as
set forth in §
92.15. Unless required more frequently by the Director of Public Works,
building construction waste, demolition debris and dirt or soil that may leave
a construction site shall be cleaned from public streets on a weekly basis.
(Prior Code, § 10.03, Subd. 2) (Ord. 207, effective 10-27-2000)
§ 92.17 DUMPSTERS.
   DUMPSTER means a container that is intended to be used primarily for the
disposal of construction debris or waste material, not refuse, which has a
capacity larger than 100 gallons. A person must not cause, undertake, permit or
allow the placement or existence of a dumpster outside on property unless it
complies with the following requirements:
   (A)   A permit is approved by the city and the permit fee paid in an amount
established by resolution of the City Council;
   (B)   A dumpster must be placed only on a paved or graveled parking or
driveway area as far away from the public street as reasonably possible, or on
another area approved by the designated city official;
   (C)   A dumpster may not be on the paved portion of a public street unless
approved by the designated city official;
   (D)   A dumpster must be used only in connection with construction activity
that has been properly permitted by the city, in which case it may remain no
longer than 180 days in any 12-month period or the clean-up of property, in
which case it may remain for no longer than 30 days in any 12-month period;
   (E)   There can be no more than one dumpster per parcel unless approved by
the designated city official; and
   (F)   A dumpster must be maintained in a reasonably sound condition, with no
holes and little rust or pealing paint.
CHAPTER 93: DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND ARTICLES
Section
   
93.01   Acts prohibited
   
93.02   Exception
   
93.03   Discharge of firearms and explosives
   
93.04   Exception
   
93.05   Possession and sale of fireworks
   
93.06   Exposure of unused container
   
93.07   Use of bow and arrow
   
93.08   Definition
§ 93.01 ACTS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Recklessly handle or use a gun or other dangerous weapon or explosive
so as to endanger the safety of another;
   (B)   Intentionally point a gun of any kind, capable of injuring or killing
a human being and whether loaded or unloaded, at or toward another;
   (C)   Manufacture or sell for any unlawful purpose any weapon known as a
slung-shot or sand club;
   (D)   Manufacture, transfer or possess metal knuckles or a switch blade
knife opening automatically;
   (E)   Possess any other dangerous article or substance for the purpose of
being used unlawfully as a weapon against another;
   (F)   Sell or have in his or her possession any device designed to silence
or muffle the discharge of a firearm;
   (G)   Permit, as a parent or guardian, any child under 14 years of age to
handle or use, outside of the parent's or guardian's presence, a firearm or air
gun of any kind or any ammunition or explosive;
   (H)   Furnish a minor under 18 years of age with a firearm, air gun,
ammunition or explosive without the written consent of his or her parent or
guardian or of the Police Department; or
   (I)   Possess, sell, transfer or have in possession for sale or transfer,
any weapon commonly known as a throwing star, nun chuck or sharp stud. For the
purposes of this division:
      (1)   A THROWING STAR means a circular metallic device with any number of
points projecting from the edge;
      (2)   A NUN CHUCK means a pair of wood sticks or metallic rods separated
by chain links attached to one end of each stick or rod; and
      (3)   A SHARP STUD means a circular piece of metal attached to a wrist
band, glove, belt or other material which protrudes one-fourth inch, or more,
from the material to which it is attached, and with the protruding portion
pyramidal in shape, sharp or pointed.
(Prior Code, § 10.10, Subd. 1) (Ord. 70, effective 1-31-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 EXCEPTION.
   Nothing in §
93.01 shall prohibit the possession of the articles therein mentioned if the
purpose of the possession is for public exhibition by museums or collectors of
art.
(Prior Code, § 10.10, Subd. 2)
§ 93.03 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS AND EXPLOSIVES.
   It is unlawful for any person to fire or discharge any cannon, gun, pistol
or other firearm, firecracker, sky rocket or other fireworks, air gun, air
rifle or other similar device commonly referred to as a B-B gun.
(Prior Code, § 10.10, Subd. 3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.04 EXCEPTION.
   Nothing in §
93.03 shall apply to a display of fireworks by an organization or group of
organizations authorized in writing by the Council, or to a peace officer in
the discharge of his or her duty, or to a person in the lawful defense of his
or her person or family. This chapter shall not apply to the discharge of
firearms in a range authorized in writing by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 10.10, Subd. 4)
§ 93.05 POSSESSION AND SALE OF FIREWORKS.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell, possess or have in possession for the
purpose of sale, except as allowed in §
93.04, any firecrackers, sky rockets or other fireworks.
(Prior Code, § 10.10, Subd. 5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06 EXPOSURE OF UNUSED CONTAINER.
   It is unlawful for any person, being the owner or in possession or control
thereof, to permit an unused refrigerator, ice box or other container,
sufficiently large to retain any child and with doors which fasten
automatically when closed, to expose the same accessible to children, without
removing the doors, lids, hinges or latches.
(Prior Code, § 10.10, Subd. 6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.07 USE OF BOW AND ARROW.
   It is unlawful for any person to shoot a bow and arrow except in the
physical education program in a school supervised by a member of its faculty, a
community-wide supervised class or event specifically authorized by the Chief
of Police, or a bow and arrow range authorized by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 10.10, Subd. 7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.08 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Any substance or combination of substances or article prepared
for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion,
explosion, deflagration or detonation, and includes blank cartridges, toy
cannons and toy canes in which explosives are used, the type of balloons which
require fire underneath to propel them, firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets,
Roman candles, daygo bombs, sparklers or other fireworks of like construction,
and any fireworks containing any explosive or inflammable compound, or any
tablet or other device containing any explosive substance and commonly used as
fireworks. The term FIREWORKS shall not include toy pistols, toy guns, in which
paper caps containing 25 hundredths grains or less of explosive compound are
used, and toy pistol caps which contain less than 20 hundredths grains of
explosive mixture.
(Prior Code, § 10.10, Subd. 8)
CHAPTER 94: ANIMALS
Section
Dog Regulation
   
94.01   Running at large prohibited
   
94.02   Number of dogs restricted
   
94.03   [Reserved]
   
94.04   [Reserved]
   
94.05   Tag required
   
94.06   Dog pound
   
94.07   Notice of impounding
   
94.08   Release from dog pound
   
94.09   Other unlawful acts
   
94.10   Rabies control
Animals and Fowl; Keeping, Transporting, Treatment, Housing
   
94.25   Definitions
   
94.26   Keeping
   
94.27   Animals in transit
   
94.28   Treatment
   
94.29   Housing
   
94.30   Trespasses
   
94.31   Nuisances
   
94.32   Dangerous animals (excluding dogs)
   
94.33   Urban chickens permit required
DOG REGULATION
§ 94.01 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the dog of any person who owns, harbors or keeps a
dog, to run at large. A person, who owns, harbors or keeps a dog which runs at
large shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Dogs on a leash and accompanied by a
responsible person or accompanied by and under the control and direction of a
responsible person, so as to be effectively restrained by command as by leash,
shall be permitted in streets or on public land unless the city has posted an
area with signs reading "Dogs Prohibited."
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.02 NUMBER OF DOGS RESTRICTED.
   The number of dogs permitted shall not exceed three per single family
dwelling unit, or two per residential unit in multi-dwelling structures.
(Prior Code, § 10.11, Subd. 2) (Ord. 53, effective 1-4-1985; Ord. 362, passed
12-18-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 [RESERVED].
§ 94.04 [RESERVED].
§ 94.05 TAG REQUIRED.
   All dogs shall wear a collar and have a tag(s) firmly affixed thereto
evidencing the dog is currently vaccinated for rabies and the owner's
information. The owner's information at a minimum will include name, address
and phone number.
(Prior Code, § 10.11, Subd. 5) (Ord. 362, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 94.06 DOG POUND.
   (A)   Any dog found in the city without a tag, or running at large, shall be
placed in the dog pound, either a city maintained or private facility operated
by a vendor selected by the city, and an accurate record of the time of the
placement shall be kept on each dog.
   (B)   Every dog so placed in the dog pound shall be held for redemption by
the owner for a period of not less than five regular business days. A REGULAR
BUSINESS DAY is one during which the pound is open for business to the public
for at least four hours between 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
   (C)   Impoundment records shall be preserved for a minimum of six months and
shall show:
      (1)   The description of the animal by species, breed, sex, approximate
age and other distinguishing traits;
      (2)   The location at which the animal was seized;
      (3)   The date of seizure;
      (4)   The name and address of the person from whom any animal three
months of age or over was received; and
      (5)   The name and address of the person to whom any animal three months
of age or over was transferred.
   (D)   If unclaimed, the dog shall be given to some suitable person or
institution or humanely destroyed and the carcass disposed of, unless it is
requested by a licensed educational or scientific institution as authorized by
M.S. § 346.47, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 10.11, Subd. 6) (Ord. 362, passed 12-18-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.07 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDING.
   Upon the impounding of any dog, the owner shall be notified, or if the owner
of the dog is unknown, written notice shall be posted for five days at the
Police Department or other suitable location describing the dog and the place
and time of taking.
(Prior Code, § 10.11, Subd. 7) (Ord. 362, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 94.08 RELEASE FROM DOG POUND.
   Dogs shall be released to their owners or persons previously in possession
of them as follows:
   (A)   If the dog is owned or possessed by a resident of the city, after
providing proof of current immunization for rabies, collar displaying the
required tags for the dog, and payment of the impounding fee; and
   (B)   If the dog is owned or possessed by a person not a resident of the
city, after providing proof of current immunization for rabies and payment of
the impounding fee.
(Prior Code, § 10.11, Subd. 8) (Ord. 362, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 94.09 OTHER UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for the owner of any dog to:
      (1)   Fail to have the tag required by §
94.05 firmly attached to a collar worn at all times by the animal;
      (2)   Interfere with any police officer, or other city employee, in the
performance of his or her duty to enforce this section;
      (3)   Fail to keep his or her dog from barking, howling or whining; or
      (4)   Fail to pick up the feces from his or her dog after defecating in
or upon public property or the premises of another.
   (B)   It is also unlawful to abandon a dog. Any dog not claimed by the owner
within the five-day holding period shall be considered abandoned. The owner of
an abandoned dog shall be responsible for its care during the five-day holding
period.
(Prior Code, § 10.11, Subd. 9) (Ord. 110, effective 1-5-1990; Ord. 362, passed
12-18-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.10 RABIES CONTROL.
   When any owner of an animal has been notified that the animal has, or is
suspected to have, bitten or attacked any person, he or she must within 24
hours place the animal under the care and observation of the city or a licensed
veterinarian for a period of not less than ten days except in those cases when
an animal has bitten or attacked while on the premises of the owner and the
owner has a current rabies vaccination for the animal, in which case, the city
may, if it feels the facilities are adequate and if the owner is a responsible
person, quarantine the animal on the owner's premises. In this case the owner
must sign a statement and understand the responsibility and assume the
liability that is involved with the quarantine of an animal that has bitten.
The quarantined animal must at all times be available for inspection during the
quarantine. At the end of the ten days' observation period, the animal shall be
examined by the city and, if cleared, may be reclaimed by the owner and the
owner must pay the expense incurred incident thereto. Any animal impounded or
placed for observation, showing active signs of rabies, suspected or having
rabies or known to have been exposed to rabies, shall be confined under
competent observation for the time as may be deemed necessary to determine a
diagnosis. Any animal that has bitten or attacked that cannot be captured may
be destroyed in a manner that the head is not damaged and can be submitted for
a rabies examination to a laboratory.
(Prior Code, § 10.11, Subd. 10)
ANIMALS AND FOWL; KEEPING, TRANSPORTING, TREATMENT, HOUSING
§ 94.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMALS. Includes farm animals and all other animals, reptiles and feathered
birds or fowl except dogs, cats, gerbils, hamsters and caged household birds.
   COOP. The structure for the keeping or housing of chickens as permitted by
this Section.
   FARM ANIMALS. Cattle, horses, mules, sheep, goats, swine, ponies, ducks,
geese, turkeys, chickens, guinea hens and honey bees.
   RUN. A fully enclosed and covered area attached to a coop where chickens can
roam unsupervised.
   URBAN CHICKEN. A domesticated female of the species: Gallus domesticus, as
identified by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, hereafter referred to as
URBAN CHICKEN or CHICKEN.
(Prior Code, § 10.12, Subd. 1) (Ord. 350, passed 3-21-2017)
§ 94.26 KEEPING.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor any animal, not in transit,
except:
   (A)   Farm animals kept in that portion of the city zoned for agricultural
purposes;
   (B)   Animals kept as part of a show licensed under the city code;
   (C)   Animals kept in a laboratory for scientific or experimental purposes;
or
   (D)   Animals kept in an animal hospital or clinic for treatment by a
licensed veterinarian.
   (E)   Urban chickens are allowed only by permit as provided by §
94.33 at an owner-occupied single family dwelling property located within a
residential district that allows single family dwellings as permitted use.
(Prior Code, § 10.12, Subd. 2) (Ord. 350, passed 3-21-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.27 ANIMALS IN TRANSIT.
   It is unlawful for any person to transport animals unless they are:
   (A)   Confined within a vehicle, cage or other means of conveyance;
   (B)   Farm animals being transported in a portion of the city zoned for
agricultural purposes; or
   (C)   Restrained by means of bridles, halters, ropes or other means of
individual restraint.
(Prior Code, § 10.12, Subd. 3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.28 TREATMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to treat an animal in a cruel or inhumane
manner.
(Prior Code, § 10.12, Subd. 4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.29 HOUSING.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep any animal in any structure infested
by rodents, vermin, flies or insects.
(Prior Code, § 10.12, Subd. 5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.30 TRESPASSES.
   It is unlawful for any person to herd, drive or ride any animal over and
upon any grass, turf, boulevard, city park, cemetery, garden or lot without
specific permission therefor from the owner.
(Prior Code, § 10.12, Subd. 6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.31 NUISANCES.
   (A)   Habitual barking. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
harbor a dog which habitually barks or cries. Habitual barking shall be defined
as barking for repeated intervals of at least five minutes with less than one
minute of interruption. The barking must also be audible off of the owner's or
caretaker's premises.
   (B)   Damage to property. It shall be unlawful for any person's dog or other
animal to damage any lawn, garden, or other property, whether or not the owner
has knowledge of the damage.
   (C)   Cleaning up litter. The owner of any animal or person having the
custody or control of any animal shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces
of the animal and disposing of the feces in a sanitary manner whether on their
own property, on the property of others or on public property.
   (D)   Warrant required. The Animal Control Officer or police officer shall
not enter the property of the owner of an animal described in this section
unless the officer has first obtained the permission of the owner to do so or
has obtained a warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction, as provided
for in §
10.20, to search for and seize the animal.
   (E)   Other. Any animals kept contrary to this section are subject to
impoundment as provided in §
94.07.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.32 DANGEROUS ANIMALS (EXCLUDING DOGS).
   (A)   Attack by an animal. It shall be unlawful for any person's animal to
inflict or attempt to inflict bodily injury to any person or other animal
whether or not the owner is present. This section shall not apply to dogs.
   (B)   Destruction of dangerous animal. The Animal Control Officer shall have
the authority to order the destruction of dangerous animals in accordance with
the terms established by this chapter.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:
         (a)   Caused bodily injury or disfigurement to any person on public or
private property;
         (b)   Engaged in any attack on any person under circumstances which
would indicate danger to personal safety;
         (c)   Exhibited unusually aggressive behavior, such as an attack on
another animal;
         (d)   Bitten one or more persons on two or more occasions; or
         (e)   Been found to be potentially dangerous and/or the owner has
personal knowledge of the same, the animal aggressively bites, attacks, or
endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (2)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:
         (a)   Bitten a human or a domestic animal on public or private
property;
         (b)   When unprovoked, chased or approached a person upon the streets,
sidewalks, or any public property in an apparent attitude of attack; or
         (c)   Has engaged in unprovoked attacks causing injury or otherwise
threatening the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (3)   PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a securely locked
pen or structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and to provide
protection for the animal from the elements. A proper enclosure does not
include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure that
would allow the animal to exit of its own volition, or any house or structure
in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the only
barriers which prevent the animal from exiting. The enclosure shall not allow
the egress of the animal in any manner without human assistance. A pen or
kennel shall meet the following minimum specifications:
         (a)   Have a minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet.
         (b)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support posts shall be 1¼-inch or larger steel pipe buried in the
ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided, the sidewalls
shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground.
         (c)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and shall also have no openings in the wire greater than two inches.
         (d)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire
greater than two inches. The gate shall be equipped with a device capable of
being locked and shall be locked at all times when the animal is in the pen or
kennel.
      (4)   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the animal is not purposely
excited, stimulated, agitated or disturbed.
   (D)   Designation as potentially dangerous animal. The Animal Control
Officer shall designate any animal as a potentially dangerous animal upon
receiving evidence that the potentially dangerous animal has, when unprovoked,
then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or a domestic
animal as stated in division (C)(2). When an animal is declared potentially
dangerous, the Animal Control Officer shall cause one owner of the potentially
dangerous animal to be notified in writing that the animal is potentially
dangerous.
   (E)   Evidence justifying designation. The Animal Control Officer shall have
the authority to designate any animal as a dangerous animal upon receiving
evidence of the following:
      (1)   That the animal has, when unprovoked, bitten, attacked, or
threatened the safety of a person or domestic animal as stated in division (C)
(1).
      (2)   That the animal has been declared potentially dangerous and the
animal has then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or
domestic animal as stated in division (C)(1).
   (F)   Authority to order destruction. The Animal Control Officer, upon
finding that an animal is dangerous hereunder, is authorized to order, as part
of the disposition of the case, that the animal be destroyed based on a written
order containing one or more of the following findings of fact:
      (1)   The animal is dangerous as demonstrated by a vicious attack, an
unprovoked attack, an attack without warning or multiple attacks; or
      (2)   The owner of the animal has demonstrated an inability or
unwillingness to control the animal in order to prevent injury to persons or
other animals.
   (G)   Procedure. The Animal Control Officer, after having determined that an
animal is dangerous, may proceed in the following manner: The Animal Control
Officer shall cause one owner of the animal to be notified in writing or in
person that the animal is dangerous and may order the animal seized or make
orders as deemed proper. This owner shall be notified as to dates, times,
places and parties bitten, and shall be given 14 days to appeal this order by
requesting a hearing before the City Council for a review of this
determination.
      (1)   If no appeal is filed, the Animal Control Officer shall obtain an
order or warrant authorizing the seizure and the destruction of the animal from
a court of competent jurisdiction, unless the animal is already in custody or
the owner consents to the seizure and destruction of the animal.
      (2)   If an owner requests a hearing for determination as to the
dangerous nature of the animal, the hearing shall be held before the City
Council, which shall set a date for hearing not more than three weeks after
demand for the hearing. The records of the Animal Control or City Clerk's
office shall be admissible for consideration by the Animal Control Officer
without further foundation. After considering all evidence pertaining to the
temperament of the animal, the City Council shall make an order as it deems
proper. The City Council may order that the Animal Control Officer take the
animal into custody for destruction, if the animal is not currently in custody.
If the animal is ordered into custody for destruction, the owner shall
immediately make the animal available to the Animal Control Officer. If the
owner does not immediately make the animal available, the Animal Control
Officer shall obtain an order or warrant authorizing the seizure and the
destruction of the animal from a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (3)   No person shall harbor an animal after it has been found by to be
dangerous and ordered into custody for destruction.
   (H)   Stopping an attack. If any police officer or Animal Control Officer is
witness to an attack by an animal upon a person or another animal, the officer
may take whatever means the officer deems appropriate to bring the attack to an
end and prevent further injury to the victim.
   (I)   Notification of new address. The owner of an animal which has been
identified as dangerous or potentially dangerous shall notify the Animal
Control Officer in writing if the animal is to be relocated from its current
address or given or sold to another person. The notification shall be given in
writing at least 14 days prior to the relocation or transfer of ownership. The
notification shall include the current owner's name and address, the relocation
address, and the name of the new owner, if any.
   (J)   Dangerous animal requirements.
      (1)   Requirements. If the City Council does not order the destruction of
an animal that has been declared dangerous, the City Council may, as an
alternative, order any or all of the following:
         (a)   That the owner provide and maintain a proper enclosure for the
dangerous animal as specified in §
94.32(C)(3);
         (b)   Post the front and the rear of the premises with clearly visible
warning signs, including a warning symbol to inform children, that there is a
dangerous animal on the property;
         (c)   Provide and show proof annually of public liability insurance in
the minimum amount of $300,000;
         (d)   If the animal is outside the proper enclosure, the animal must
be muzzled (if physically possible depending on the type of animal) and
restrained by a substantial chain or leash (not to exceed six feet in length)
and under the physical restraint of a person 16 years of age or older. The
muzzle must be of a design as to prevent the animal from biting any person or
animal, but will not cause injury to the animal or interfere with its vision or
respiration;
         (e)   The animal shall have a microchip implant as provided by M.S. §
347.515, as it may be amended from time to time;
         (f)   All animals deemed dangerous by the Animal Control Officer shall
be registered with the county in which this city is located within 14 days
after the date the animal was so deemed and provide satisfactory proof thereof
to the Animal Control Officer.
         (g)   If the animal is a cat or ferret, it must be up to date with
rabies vaccination.
      (2)   Seizure. As authorized by M.S. § 347.54, as it may be amended from
time to time, the Animal Control Officer shall immediately seize any dangerous
animal if the owner does not meet each of the above requirements within 14 days
after the date notice is sent to the owner that the animal is dangerous.
Seizure may be appealed to district court by serving a summons and petition
upon the city and filing it with the district court.
      (3)   Reclaiming animals. A dangerous animal seized under §
94.32(J)(2), may be reclaimed by the owner of the animal upon payment of
impounding and boarding fees and presenting proof to animal control that each
of the requirements under §
94.32(J)(1), is fulfilled. An animal not reclaimed under this section within 14
days may be disposed of as provided under §
94.32(F), and the owner is liable to the city for costs incurred in confining
and impounding the animal.
   (D)   Subsequent offenses. If an owner of an animal has subsequently
violated the provisions under §
94.32 with the same animal, the animal must be seized by animal control. The
owner may request a hearing as defined in §
94.32(G). If the owner is found to have violated the provisions for which the
animal was seized, the Animal Control Officer shall order the animal destroyed
in a proper and humane manner and the owner shall pay the costs of confining
the animal. If the person is found not to have violated the provisions for
which the animal was seized, the owner may reclaim the animal under the
provisions of §
94.32(J)(3). If the animal is not yet reclaimed by the owner within 14 days
after the date the owner is notified that the animal may be reclaimed, the
animal may be disposed of as provided under §
94.32(F) and the owner is liable to the animal control for the costs incurred
in confining, impounding and disposing of the animal.
§ 94.33 URBAN CHICKENS PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is recognized that the ability to cultivate one’s own food is a
sustainable activity that can also be a rewarding pastime. Therefore, it is the
purpose and intent of this ordinance to permit the keeping and maintenance of
chicken hens for residential egg production by permit. The chicken MUST be kept
in a clean and sanitary manner that is not a nuisance to or detrimental to the
public health, safety and welfare of the community. The keeping of other
poultry is prohibited.
   (A)   Permit required. A permit is required for any person seeking to keep
urban chickens in the City of Cannon Falls as allowed by this section. Coops
and runs under this section will be exempt from and not counted towards the
limits of detached accessory building as provided by §
152.236 of the City Code of Ordinances. An applicant must complete an
application form provided by the city. Any amendment to an existing permit
shall constitute a new application fee. The application- shall include, but is
not limited to, the following information:
      (1)   Written, dated and signed application from 100% of the owners of
the property applying.
      (2)   Attesting to meet the requirements that the property is an owner
occupied single family dwelling located within a residential district that
allows single family dwellings as permitted use.
      (3)   A scaled drawing (site plan) showing the location, size and
dimensions of all structures (coops, runs, and the like) and containment area
for the urban chicken(s), including the distance of all structures and
containment areas from the property lines and adjoining and neighboring
structures.
      (4)   The number of chickens to be kept on site, six maximum.
      (5)   Detailed feces and waste management plan.
      (6)   An agreement by the applicant that the premises may be inspected by
the city at any reasonable time to ensure compliance with all applicant
conditions.
   (B)   Duration of permit and fee.
      (1)   Each permit issued under this ordinance shall expire on December 31
in the year of issuance unless sooner revoked. A permit shall be renewed
annually to continue the limited keeping of urban chickens.
      (2)   The annual fee and/or renewal fee for a permit shall be paid at the
time of the making of the application. Permit fees shall be in such amount as
set forth in the City Fee Schedule approved annually by the City Council.
      (3)   If permit is not approved, permit fees shall not be refunded.
      (4)   Permit fees shall not be pro-rated.
   (C)   Permit subject to terms and conditions of the ordinance.
      (1)   A permit is subject to all terms and conditions of this section and
any additional conditions deemed necessary by the city to protect health,
safety and welfare.
      (2)   The city may revoke a permit for failure to comply with the
provisions of the ordinance or any of the permit’s conditions. Prior to
revoking the permit, the city shall provide the owner with written notice of
such violation and provide the owner with 48 hours to become compliant with
this section.
   (D)   Conditions of permit for urban chickens.
      (1)   No person may keep a rooster or crowing hen.
      (2)   Chickens must be provided a secure and well-ventilated roofed
structure (“chicken coop”). Any chicken coop and run fencing must be consistent
with building and zoning codes.
      (3)   No chicken coop or run shall be constructed on any lot prior to the
time of construction of the principal structure.
      (4)   Chicken coops and runs shall not be in the front or side yard. The
chicken coop and run must be located in the rear yard.
      (5)   Any chicken coop or run shall be set back at least ten feet from
the property line and 50 feet from the principle structure on any adjacent
lots, as measured in all directions. Measurement shall be a straight line
distance between the closest points on each structure.
      (6)   The chicken coop must be built in such a manner that it is not
considered a nuisance to the neighboring properties.
      (7)   The chicken coop must be built tall enough to ensure proper
cleaning of the structure.
      (8)   The chicken coop must be fully enclosed, wind and weatherproof, and
have sufficient windows for natural light.
      (9)   The chicken coop must have a heat source for the winter months.
      (10)   The chicken coop must be constructed with materials that will
prevent rodent and predator access.
      (11)   Any coop or run shall be screened from view with a solid fence or
landscaped buffer with a minimum height of four feet.
      (12)    All chicken coops must have a minimum two square feet per chicken
and the coop must not exceed a total of 30 square feet (by outside dimensions)
and must be elevated with a clear open space of at least 18 inches between the
ground and the floor or framing of the coop and must not exceed six feet in
total height. The coop’s floor, foundation or footings must be constructed in
such a manner as to make the coop rodent-resistant. Fenced-in chicken runs must
be a minimum of three square feet per chicken with a maximum of 30 square feet
and fencing must not exceed six feet in total height. Chicken runs may be
enclosed with wood and/or woven wire materials, and may allow chickens to
contact the ground. Chicken runs must have a protective overhead netting or be
constructed under the coop to keep the chickens separated from other animals.
The run must be constructed in such a manner as to make the run rodent-
resistant.
      (13)   Chickens must be secured in a chicken coop from sunset to sunrise
each day.
      (14)   Chicken grains and feed must be stored in rodent-proof containers
inside a structure.
      (15)   No person may keep more than six hens at one time.
      (16)   The sale of chicks is strictly prohibited.
      (17)   The sale of eggs from the permitted residence is strictly
prohibited.
      (18)   Chicken fighting is prohibited. Chickens shall not be raised or
kept for fighting.
      (19)   The slaughtering of chickens inside the city limits is prohibited.
      (20)   The raising of chickens for breeding purposes is prohibited.
      (21)   No person may allow chickens to roam freely.
      (22)   No person may keep chickens inside a house or attached garage.
      (23)   Dead chickens must be disposed of within 24 hours of death. Dead
chickens must be disposed of according to the Minnesota Board of Animal Health
rules, acceptable forms of chicken carcass disposal may include off-site
burial, off-site incineration or rendering, or off-site composting.
      (24)   All premises on which the chickens are kept or maintained shall be
kept clean from filth, garbage and any substances which will attract rodents.
The roofed structure must be cleaned frequently enough to control odor. Manure
shall not be allowed to accumulate in a way that causes an unsanitary condition
or cause odors detectible on another property.
   (E)   Pens and yards. All chicken coops and chicken runs wherein chickens
are kept or permitted to be shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition, devoid of all rodents and vermin, and free from objectionable odors.
Such structures shall be maintained in good condition and shall be sufficient
in strength and size to allow the particular chickens being kept to move about,
but also able to prevent the escape of the chickens by climbing digging,
chewing, manipulating of locks, gates or any other means if such restraint is
necessary to prevent the creation of a nuisance. The city, upon complaint of
any individual, shall inspect any such structure or premises and issue any such
order as may be necessary to carry out the provisions hereof.
   (F)   Conditions and inspection. No person who owns, controls, keeps,
maintains or harbors hen chickens shall permit the premises where the hen
chicken are kept to be or remain in an unhealthy, unsanitary or noxious
condition or to permit the premises to be in such condition that noxious odors
are carried to adjacent public or private property. Any chicken coop and
chicken run authorized under this section may be inspected at any reasonable
time by a City of Cannon Falls Police Officer or other agent of the city as
designated by the City Council.
   (G)   Public or private nuisance.
      (1)   No person shall allow any chicken under his/her ownership or
control to disturb the peace and quiet of the city or to otherwise become a
public or private nuisance so as to annoy, injure, or endanger the health,
safety, comfort, or repose of the public. Nor shall the owner of chickens
maintain them in a manner so as to create a nuisance to owners of property
adjacent to or in close proximity with the property on which said animal is
located.
      (2)   Factors to be considered in deciding whether the keeping of
chickens creates a public or private nuisance include, but are not limited to,
the following:
         (a)   The condition of any structure or building wherein any chicken
and other fowl is kept.
         (b)   The proximity of pens, fences and other structures to adjacent
property lines.
         (c)   The general nature and characteristics of neighborhood.
         (d)   The number of chickens kept on any one parcel.
         (e)   The relative size of the parcel on which the chickens are kept.
         (f)   The type of chickens being kept.
         (g)   The extent to which neighboring property is protected from the
effects of said chickens, e.g., solid fences, landscape screening, buffer
areas, and the like.
         (h)   The presence of objectionable odors and or noise.
         (i)   The relative danger the chicken would pose if exposed to the
general public.
   (H)   Enforcement. City of Cannon Falls Police Officers or other agent of
the city as designated by the City Council shall enforce the provisions of this
section.
   (I)   Impounding of non-domesticated animals, chickens, and other fowl. Any
nondomesticated animal, including chickens and other fowl, running at large or
kept in violation of this section may be impounded by the city, and after being
so impounded for five days or more without being reclaimed by the owner may be
destroyed or sold. Any person reclaiming such impounded animal shall pay the
costs of impounding and keeping the same.
   (J)   Penalty for non-compliance. Failure to comply with these conditions
may result in the removal of all chickens from the premises to include the
revocation of the permit allowing.
      (1)   Violations of this section shall be subject to presumptive civil
penalties as indicated in the matrix below. These penalties are presumed to be
appropriate for every case; however, the Council may deviate in an individual
case where the Council finds that there exist substantial reasons making it
more appropriate to deviate. When deviating from these standards, the Council
must provide written findings that support the penalty selected. Multiple
violations occurring out of the same date shall be considered by the Council to
determine if they will be considered to be one violation for civil penalty
purposes or be considered as multiple violations, each processed according to
the matrix.
 
Violations
Type of violation             First Second Third Fourth
94.33(D)(1)-(23)              $75   $150   $300  Revocation
Months within first violation N/A   24     36    48
 
      (2)   Violations of this section may also be subject to criminal
penalties for violation of the City Code.
      (3)   Council will determine if a permit shall be revoked provided that
the permit holder(s) has been afforded an opportunity for a hearing in the
manner.
      (4)   Any person whose permit is revoked shall, within ten days
thereafter, humanely dispose of all chickens being owned, kept or harbored by
such person.
      (5)   Any person violating any conditions of this permit shall reimburse
the city for all costs borne by the city to enforce the conditions of the
permit.
      (6)   Any person whom is subject to revocation of an urban chicken permit
shall be ineligible for the issuance of a permit for 24 months from compliance
with the revocation of the permit.
(Ord. 350, passed 3-21-2017)
CHAPTER 95: FIRE CODE AND EMERGENCY SERVICES
Section
State Uniform Fire Code
   
95.01   Adoption
   
95.02   Storage of flammable and explosive materials
Emergency Services
   
95.15   Findings; authorization
   
95.16   Service charges
   
95.17   Billing of service charges
   
95.18   Collection of unpaid service charges
Anhydrous Ammonia
   
95.30   Storage
Key Box Security Devices
   
95.45   Purpose and findings
   
95.46   Definitions
   
95.47   Requirements
   
95.48   Exceptions
   
95.49   Key box contents
   
95.50   Installation and location
   
95.51   Notice; replaced keys
   
95.52   Waiver
   
95.53   Effective date and enforcement
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see §
31.03
   Police Department, see §
31.02
STATE UNIFORM FIRE CODE
§ 95.01 ADOPTION.
   The Minnesota State Fire Code, as adopted pursuant to M.S. § 299F.011, as it
may be amended from time to time, and as modified by Minn. Rules, Chapter 7511,
shall be applicable within the city.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   Wherever the word JURISDICTION is used in the State Fire Code, it
shall mean the City of Cannon Falls.
      (2)   Whenever the term THIS CODE is used in the State Fire Code or this
section, it shall mean the Code adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department, or his or her designated
representative, is authorized to enforce the provisions of the State Fire Code
and this section.
      (2)   The Chief of the Fire Department, or his or her designated
representative, may detail the members of the Fire Department as may be
necessary to administer and enforce the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Penalties. A person who violates the provisions of the State Fire Code
or this section after being given written notice shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Each day's violation after notice thereof shall constitute a
separate offense.
§ 95.02 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE AND EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS.
   (A)   Installations shall not be expanded nor shall new installations for
the purpose be permitted without a special permit from the Council.
   (B)   Prior to issuance of any permit, an application therefor shall be
investigated by the Chief of Police and the Chief of the Fire Department, and a
hearing held thereon before the Council.
(Prior Code, § 10.31, Subd. 2)
EMERGENCY SERVICES
§ 95.15 FINDINGS; AUTHORIZATION.
   The City Council finds it necessary to impose reasonable service charges for
emergency fire services provided by the city's Fire Department in order to
continue to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 10.27, Subd. 1)
§ 95.16 SERVICE CHARGES.
   The following service charges are adopted.
Alarm/Call Service Charge
Alarm/Call                                   Service Charge
False fire alarm
   2 false alarms during 12-month period  $0
   3 false alarms during 12-month period  $250
   4 or more false alarms during 12-month $500 each
period
Motor vehicle accidents and hazardous        $300 plus an hourly rate of $100
materials calls                              per truck
Resident fire call                           $250
Nonresident fire call                        Actual cost of service
 
(Prior Code, § 10.27, Subd. 2)
§ 95.17 BILLING OF SERVICE CHARGES.
   The city shall send a written bill to the person or entity that requested or
received the emergency services. The service charge shall be paid within 30
days from the date the bill is mailed by the city.
(Prior Code, § 10.27, Subd. 3)
§ 95.18 COLLECTION OF UNPAID SERVICE CHARGES.
   The city may assess the service charge to property owned, leased or occupied
by the recipient of the emergency services. The City Council may certify to the
County Auditor, on or before October 15 for each year, any overdue unpaid
service charges, which shall be collected together with property taxes levied
against the property. At least 30 days before certification of the charges, the
city must give written notice to the property owner of its intention to certify
the charges. The service charges shall be subject to the same penalties,
interest and other conditions provided for the collection of property taxes.
(Prior Code, § 10.27, Subd. 4)
ANHYDROUS AMMONIA
§ 95.30 STORAGE.
   It is unlawful to store anhydrous ammonia except by special permit from the
Council. For the purpose of this section, the words STORE and STORAGE shall
mean confining in any type of container except as is then in transit upon a
vehicle or other means of transportation.
(Prior Code, § 10.43) Penalty, see §
10.99
KEY BOX SECURITY DEVICES
§ 95.45 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   In cases of fire, medical or public safety emergencies, it is vital that
police officers, firefighters and emergency medical services (EMS) personnel be
able to gain access to secured areas of buildings. In an emergency response
situation there is insufficient time to locate a person serving as a key
holder. Use of key boxes will minimize the damage to doors and windows and
provide a more efficient means of emergency access to locked buildings by
public safety personnel, thereby enhancing the safety and security of the
building's occupants and protection of the premises and contents. A key box
provides secure storage of key, access codes and other vital information and
keeps it readily available to emergency personnel during a situation. To assist
emergency personnel in gaining entry into locked/secured facilities, the city
hereby requires the installation of a key box security device on all buildings
meeting certain criteria constructed after the effective date of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2008)
§ 95.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY PERSONNEL. Authorized members of the Police Department, Fire
Department and ambulance service of the city.
   KEY BOX. An armored, tamper-proof box in which entry keys or access cards
are placed for emergency personnel access.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. Any building that is owned or occupied by a government
entity.
   RESTRICTED ACCESS COMMERCIAL BUILDING. Any commercial building that has an
alarm system designed to monitor security or fire status that results in an
alert that is audible or transmitted to a central monitoring location or that
is designed with heightened security or access limitations that preclude ready
access to the interior of the building by emergency personnel.
   RESTRICTED ACCESS MULTIPLE DWELLING BUILDING. Any building housing two or
more living units that share a common secured entry door that requires a key or
code in order to gain entry inside.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2008)
§ 95.47 REQUIREMENTS.
   The owner of a restricted access multiple dwelling building, restricted
access commercial building or public building is required to properly install
and maintain a key box of a type approved by the Fire Chief or Police Chief or
their designee. The Fire Chief or Chief of Police or their designee is
authorized to require more than one key box on large building complexes with
multiple secured entry points for occupants. Where access is restricted because
of secured gates, the Fire Chief or Chief of Police or their designee is
authorized to require a key box to be properly installed and maintained in an
accessible location as close as possible to the gate.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2008)
§ 95.48 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to owner occupied and two-family dwellings
or other buildings that do not have restricted accesses.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2008)
§ 95.49 KEY BOX CONTENTS.
   (A)   The owner or operator subject to this subchapter is required at all
times to store keys in the box to allow access to the building. Keys shall be
placed on a group ring with each key thereon clearly identified by its
function.
   (B)   The key box shall contain the following:
      (1)   Keys to the main entrance door;
      (2)   Keys to locked mechanical and electrical rooms;
      (3)   Keys to elevator controls;
      (4)   Keys to any fences or otherwise secured areas;
      (5)   An inventory of keys posted inside the key box;
      (6)   A card containing the emergency contact names and phone numbers;
      (7)   Sprinkler system access keys or codes; and
      (8)   Any access codes required for the above items.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2008)
§ 95.50 INSTALLATION AND LOCATION.
   The key box shall be recess mounted into the front side (street side) of the
building at a height not less than 40 inches but not more than six feet above
grade as close as possible to the main entry door or in a location approved by
the Fire Chief or Police Chief.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2008)
§ 95.51 NOTICE; REPLACED KEYS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the on-site property supervisor and the
property owner to ensure that if keys, codes or information stored in the key
box become obsolete that they are replaced. The on-site property supervisor and
the property owner shall notify the Fire Chief or Chief of Police or their
designee within 24 hours of the change.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2008)
§ 95.52 WAIVER.
   The requirements of this subchapter may be waived in whole or in part upon a
majority vote of the entire City Council upon a written showing of sufficient
cause by the property owner.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2008)
§ 95.53 EFFECTIVE DATE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of this section shall be effective immediately after
publication for all new construction or remodeling of restricted access
commercial buildings and restricted access multiple dwelling buildings.
   (B)   All existing buildings within the city to which this subchapter
applies must be in compliance with its terms within three months of its
effective date.
   (C)   Violations of this section shall be a misdemeanor. In addition, the
city may enforce this subchapter by injunctive action or other appropriate
civil remedy.
(Ord. 281, passed 6-5-2008)
CHAPTER 96: PUBLIC PARKS
Section
   
96.01   Purpose
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Hours
   
96.04   Vandalism and related acts
   
96.05   Climbing
   
96.06   Erection of structures
   
96.07   Restrooms
   
96.08   Throwing of missiles
   
96.09   Camping
   
96.10   Dangerous games
   
96.11   Pollution of waters
   
96.12   Trapping
   
96.13   Movement of tables and benches
   
96.14   Picnicking
   
96.15   Sale of articles
   
96.16   Pets and animals
   
96.17   Use of loudspeakers
   
96.18   Fires
   
96.19   Disorderly conduct
   
96.20   Fishing
   
96.21   Seining minnows
   
96.22   Cutting holes in ice
   
96.23   Fires on frozen park waters
   
96.24   Use of vehicles
   
96.25   Launching of boats
   
96.26   Improper boat handling
   
96.27   Skating and warming house rules
   
96.28   Public swimming
   
96.29   Public gatherings
   
96.30   Dog park general conduct and enforcement
Cross-reference:
   Cannon Valley Trail regulations, see
Ch. 99
§ 96.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to afford a means of maintaining and using
the parks under the jurisdiction of the city in a manner which is consistent
with the maximum enjoyment of all persons and protective of the natural
resources therein.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 1)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG PARK. A park wholly contained by a fence perimeter which is specifically
designated for off- leash use by dogs and their owners.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in physical control of a vehicle.
   DRUGS. Any controlled substance, as defined by M.S. Chapter 152, as it may
be amended from time to time and successor statutes.
   NUCLEAR FAMILY. A family consisting of some or all of the following
individuals: husband, wife, son(s), daughter(s), grandparent(s) and
grandchildren.
   PARKS. Parks, parkways, ice skating rink, playgrounds, public accesses,
recreation fields, recreation buildings, beaches and water surrounded by parks.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any engine-driven vehicle of a type which utilizes sled-type
runners, or skis or an endless belt tread or any combination of these or other
similar means of contact with the surface upon which it is operated and which
is designed to operate over ice or snow.
   VEHICLE. Includes every device in, upon or by which any person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway except devices moved
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. Further, VEHICLE means any
bicycle, go-cart, minibike, motorcycle, snowmobile, recreational vehicle, all-
terrain vehicles or self-propelled instruments which carry or may carry an
occupant or occupants upon land or water.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 2) (Ord. 363, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 96.03 HOURS.
   It is unlawful for any person to park, be in or remain in, or leave any
vehicle in any park, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. Provided,
however, that this section shall not apply to those vehicles or persons
involved in organized activities which are authorized by permit issued by the
city to remain in a park.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 3) (Ord. 72, effective 7-4-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.04 VANDALISM AND RELATED ACTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to remove, break, destroy, injure, mutilate or
deface any plant materials or other property in any park.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.05 CLIMBING.
   It is unlawful for any person to climb trees or flagpoles, sit or stand upon
monuments, vases, fountains, railings or fences in any park or recreation
areas.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.06 ERECTION OF STRUCTURES.
   It is unlawful for any person to construct or erect or bring into any park
any building or structure of whatever kind, whether permanent or temporary in
character; or run or string any public service utility into, upon or across
those lands, except upon special written permit issued hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.07 RESTROOMS.
   It is unlawful for any person in any park to fail to cooperate in
maintaining restrooms and washrooms in a neat and sanitary condition. No person
over the age of four years shall use the restrooms or washrooms designated for
the opposite sex.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.08 THROWING OF MISSILES.
   It is unlawful for any person in any park to throw or cast any stone or
missile carelessly or heedlessly in disregard of the rights or safety of others
or in any manner so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or
property.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.09 CAMPING.
   It is unlawful for any person to set up tents, shacks or any other temporary
shelter, nor shall any person leave in any park after closing hours any movable
structure or special vehicle, such as a housetrailer, camptrailer, campwagon or
the like, without the written permission of the Chief of Police. The Chief of
Police may issue up to six permits for single, overnight camping per evening. A
permit shall be required for each individual or nuclear family desiring to camp
overnight. The permit shall specify where camping is permissible.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.10 DANGEROUS GAMES.
   It is unlawful for any person in any park to take part in or abet the
playing of games involving thrown or otherwise propelled objects including, but
not limited to, balls, stones, arrows, javelins, model airplanes or darts
except in areas specifically designated for forms of recreation. The playing of
rough or dangerous games such as football and baseball is prohibited except on
the field and courts and areas provided therefor.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.11 POLLUTION OF WATERS.
   It is unlawful for any person to discharge in waters of any pond, stream or
any other body of water, any substance, or liquid or solid, or any other matter
or thing which is a pollutant.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.12 TRAPPING.
   It is unlawful for any person to, at any time, set, lay, prepare or have in
his or her possession any trap, snare, artificial light, net, bird line or any
contrivance whatever, for the purpose of catching, taking, injuring or killing
any bird or animal in any park except upon the written authorization of the
City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.13 MOVEMENT OF TABLES AND BENCHES.
   It is unlawful for any person to move benches, seats or tables from their
places. Provided, however, that benches, seats and tables may be moved within a
designated picnic area within any single park for use.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.14 PICNICKING.
   It is unlawful for any person to picnic except in a designated area, and it
is also unlawful for any person or group of persons to exclude others from a
picnic area.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.15 SALE OF ARTICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale any article
whatsoever in any park or parkway, provided, however, that this prohibition
shall not apply to sales of refreshments or other articles by the city, its
duly licensed concessionaires or persons selling under its written direction.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.16 PETS AND ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person to take any animal upon any park property,
park waters or upon any skating rink or in any park building, unless the animal
is caged or kept on a leash, except for dogs in a dog park as defined in §
96.02 and in accordance with § 96.30.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 16) (Ord. 363, passed 12-18-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.17 USE OF LOUDSPEAKERS.
   It is unlawful for any person in any park to use loudspeakers and public
address systems without a written permit granted therefor by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.18 FIRES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to start any fire in any park, except
fires may be made by picnic parties in the park, but only in freestanding
barbecue grills or in the places in the parks provided for the purpose and so
designated by the City Administrator. Any person who starts any fire is charged
with the duty of completely extinguishing fire or fires before leaving the
park.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to limit or restrict the enforcement
of provisions of the city code or other law regulating air pollution control
and setting ambient air quality standards.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.19 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for any person in any park to persistently interfere with the
orderly conduct of games or play by the participants.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.20 FISHING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to fish in any park except in those
areas designated for open fishing by the Council and the State Department of
Natural Resources regulations.
   (B)   No person shall clean fish or dispose of the remains except at
facilities expressly designated for those purposes in any park.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.21 SEINING MINNOWS.
   It is unlawful for any person to take, entrap or seine minnows in any area
designated as a city park or park area. For purposes of this section, the term
PARK AREA means all city-owned property abutting upon that certain lake known
as Lake Fredrickson and extending in a general northeasterly direction along
the Little Cannon River to a point where that certain highway known as State
Highway 52 intersects and crosses the river.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.22 CUTTING HOLES IN ICE.
   It is unlawful for any person to cut any hole in the ice of any park waters
larger than 12 inches in diameter, unless the hole shall be completely enclosed
by an ice fishing house or spear fishing house. No ice fishing house or spear
fishing house shall be permitted within any park or upon the ice of any park
waters except upon the written authorization of the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.23 FIRES ON FROZEN PARK WATERS.
   It is unlawful for any person to have any fires on the ice of any park
waters, provided, however, that manufactured heaters burning liquid fuel may be
used.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.24 USE OF VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Ride or drive a vehicle in a public park at a rate of speed exceeding
15 mph, except upon roads as the Council may otherwise designate by sign-
posting;
   (B)   When using a park, interfere with the passage of vehicles;
   (C)   Operate, ride or control the operation of any vehicle on any footwalk,
lawn or any other grounds of city parks except in those areas or upon trails,
paths or roadways as are specifically designated by posted signs for traffic or
parking purposes;
   (D)   As a driver of any vehicle, tow or push any toboggan, sled, ice
skater, bicycle or any other sliding or coasting device, nor permit any person
to board or alight from or hang onto the vehicle when the vehicle is in motion;
   (E)   Operate, ride or control the operation of any vehicle across or on
park lands except roadways, except such as operated by the city. Nothing herein
shall be construed to prohibit the use of snowmobiles in any area of a park so
designated by resolution of the Council or a provision of the city code;
   (F)   Operate, ride or control the operation of any vehicle on the ice of
park waters or flooded skating or hockey rinks;
   (G)   Wash, grease or repair any vehicle on any park, boulevard or parkway
except to perform repairs as are necessary by an emergency; and/or
   (H)   Ride any bicycle upon any trail or sidewalk in a manner as to
interfere with any pedestrian thereon.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.25 LAUNCHING OF BOATS.
   The launching of boats within any park shall be limited to those areas which
are expressly marked and designated for those purposes by the Council by
resolution, and shall otherwise be prohibited. Areas so designated shall be
posted and marked by the Public Works Department with appropriate signs.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.26 IMPROPER BOAT HANDLING.
   It is unlawful for any person to navigate, direct or handle any boat in a
manner as to annoy, frighten or endanger the occupants of other boats or other
persons including swimmers.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 26) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.27 SKATING AND WARMING HOUSE RULES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in any of the following acts
within skating rinks on ice in any park, except in the course of winter sports
or organized events held under the supervision of the staff of the city or its
delegates, as follows: racing or playing of any games which interfere with the
general use of the skating rink, the use of sleds, toboggans, hockey sticks and
pucks. This section shall not be construed to prohibit the use of hockey sticks
and pucks upon rinks constructed or designated as hockey rinks by the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to smoke or loiter on any skating rink
or on the ice in any park, or within any warming house in any park.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 27) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.28 PUBLIC SWIMMING.
   (A)   Council action and enforcement. The Council shall, by resolution,
designate the date of the season opening and closing of the park swimming pool.
The swimming pool shall be attended by lifeguards who shall work the hours and
times designated by the Council. Duly appointed lifeguards are hereby
authorized and empowered to order swimmers out of the pool waters at a time and
under conditions as they deem necessary for public welfare.
   (B)   Unlawful acts. It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Change clothes in any park except enclosures provided for the same;
      (2)   Carry on unnecessary conversation with lifeguards; or falsely call
for help or assistance, or stand or sit upon or cling to any lifeguard perches
or light towers;
      (3)   Conduct himself or herself in the water in a manner as to
jeopardize the safety or health of himself or herself and others; and/or
      (4)   Having, or apparently having, any infectious disease to be
permitted into the water.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 28) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.29 PUBLIC GATHERINGS.
   (A)   Permit required. It is unlawful for any person to participate in a
public gathering without a permit therefor from the city. For the purpose of
this section, a PUBLIC GATHERING means carnivals, community celebrations,
gatherings of 15 or more persons, including picnics and political gatherings,
contests and exhibitions (including, among other things, those requesting
exclusive use of charging admission).
   (B)   Application. All applications for a permit shall be made at the office
of the City Administrator upon forms that have been formulated by the city for
that purpose, and shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name and address of the person, persons, corporation or
association sponsoring the activity, if any;
      (3)   The day and hours for which the permit is desired;
      (4)   The park or portions thereof for which the permit is desired;
      (5)   An estimate of the anticipated attendance;
      (6)   Whether alcohol is proposed to be served; and
      (7)   Other information as the Council shall deem necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should be issued hereunder.
   (C)   Action. The City Administrator shall issue a permit if it is found
that:
      (1)   The proposed activity or use of the park will not unreasonably
interfere with or detract from the general public enjoyment of the park;
      (2)   The proposed activity or use will not unreasonably interfere with
or detract from the promotion of public health, welfare, safety and recreation.
This should not give right to exclusive use of the park facilities;
      (3)   The proposed activity or use is not reasonably anticipated to
incite violence, crime or disorderly conduct;
      (4)   The proposed activity will not entail unusual, extraordinary or
burdensome expense for police operation by the city; and
      (5)   The facilities desired have not been reserved for some other use at
the date and hour required in the application.
   (D)   Refusal and revocation. The City Administrator may, for reasonable
cause, refuse to grant the application, and shall, within five days after
receipt of the application, notify the applicant in writing of his or her
reasons for refusing the permit. Any aggrieved person shall have the right to
appeal in writing within five days of mailed notice to the Council, which shall
consider the application under the standards set forth above, and sustain or
overrule the City Administrator's decision within 14 days. The decision of the
Council shall be final. The City Administrator shall have authority to revoke a
permit upon a finding of violation of any rule or provision of the city code,
or upon good cause shown.
(Prior Code, § 10.33, Subd. 29) (Ord. 60, effective 8-23-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.30 DOG PARK GENERAL CONDUCT AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The Council shall, by resolution, designate rules pertaining to the use of a
dog park as they deem necessary for safe use and public welfare. Said rules
will be visibly posted at a dog park and enforced as provided by § 10.99.
(Ord. 363, passed 12-18-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 97: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
97.001   Assessable current services
   
97.002   Tree diseases and shade tree pest control
Nuisances
   
97.015   Public nuisance
   
97.016   Public nuisances affecting health
   
97.017   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
97.018   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
97.019   Nuisance parking and storage
   
97.020   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
97.021   Building maintenance and appearance
   
97.022   Duties of city officers
   
97.023   Abatement
   
97.024   Recovery of cost
Weeds
   
97.035   Short title
   
97.036   Jurisdiction
   
97.037   Definitions; exclusions
   
97.038   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
97.039   Filing complaint
   
97.040   Notice of violations
   
97.041   Appeals
   
97.042   Abatement by city
   
97.043   Liability
Open Burning
   
97.060   Definitions
   
97.061   Prohibited materials
   
97.062   Permit required for open burning
   
97.063   Purposes allowed for open burning
   
97.064   Permit application for open burning; permit fees
   
97.065   Permit process for open burning
   
97.066   Permit holder responsibility
   
97.067   Revocation of open burning permit
   
97.068   Denial of open burning permit
   
97.069   Burning ban or air quality alert
   
97.070   Rules and laws adopted by reference
   
97.071   External solid fuel-fired heating devices (outdoor wood burning
stoves)
General Nuisances
   
97.085   Junk cars, furniture, household furnishings and appliances stored on
public or private property
   
97.086   Abandoning a motor vehicle
   
97.087   Prohibited use of mobile homes and recreational camping vehicles
   
97.088   Maintenance of private property
   
97.089   Open pits, basements and other excavations
   
97.090   Radio and television interference
 
   
97.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 97.001 ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CURRENT SERVICE. One or more of the following: snow, ice or rubbish
removal from sidewalks; weed elimination from street grass plots adjacent to
sidewalks or from private property; removal or elimination of public health or
safety hazards from private property, excluding any hazardous building included
in M.S. §§ 463.15 through 463.26, as they may amended from time to time;
installation or repair of water service lines; street sprinkling, street
flushing, light street oiling or other dust treatment of streets; repair of
sidewalks and alleys; trimming and care of trees and removal of unsound and
insect-infected trees from the public streets or private property; and the
operation of a street lighting system.
   (B)   Snow, ice, dirt and rubbish.
      (1)   Duty of owners and occupants. The owner and the occupant of any
property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use diligence to keep the walk
safe for pedestrians. No owner or occupant shall allow snow, ice, dirt or
rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 24 hours after its deposit thereon.
Failure to comply with this section shall constitute a violation.
      (2)   Removal by city. The City Administrator or other person designated
by the City Council may cause removal from all public sidewalks all snow, ice,
dirt and rubbish as soon as possible beginning 24 hours after any matter has
been deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased to fall. The City
Administrator or other designated person shall keep a record showing the cost
of removal adjacent to each separate lot and parcel.
   (C)   Public health and safety hazards. When the city removes or eliminates
public health or safety hazards from private property under the following
provisions of this chapter, the administrative officer responsible for doing
the work shall keep a record of the cost of the removal or elimination against
each parcel of property affected and annually deliver that information to the
City Administrator.
   (D)   Installation and repair of water service lines. Whenever the city
installs or repairs water service lines serving private property, the City
Administrator shall keep a record of the total cost of the installation or
repair against the property.
   (E)   Repair of sidewalks and alleys.
      (1)   Duty of owner. The owner of any property within the city abutting a
public sidewalk or alley shall keep the sidewalk or alley in repair and safe
for pedestrians. Repairs shall be made in accordance with the standard
specifications approved by the City Council and on file in the office of the
City Administrator.
      (2)   Inspections; notice. The City Council or its designee may make
inspections as are necessary to determine that public sidewalks and alleys
within the city are kept in repair and safe for pedestrians or vehicles. If it
is found that any sidewalk or alley abutting on private property is unsafe and
in need of repairs, the City Council may cause a notice to be served, by
registered or certified mail or by personal service, upon the record owner of
the property, ordering the owner to have the sidewalk or alley repaired and
made safe within 30 days and stating that if the owner fails to do so, the city
will do so and that the expense thereof must be paid by the owner, and if
unpaid it will be made a special assessment against the property concerned.
      (3)   Repair by city. If the sidewalk or alley is not repaired within 30
days after receipt of the notice, the City Administrator may report the facts
to the City Council and the City Council may by resolution order the work done
by contract in accordance with law. No person shall enter private property to
repair a sidewalk, except with the permission of the owner or after obtaining
an administrative warrant. The City Administrator shall keep a record of the
total cost of the repair attributable to each lot or parcel of property.
   (F)   Personal liability. The owner of property on which or adjacent to
which a current service has been performed shall be personally liable for the
cost of the service. As soon as the service has been completed and the cost
determined, the City Administrator, or other designated official, shall prepare
a bill and mail it to the owner and thereupon the amount shall be immediately
due and payable at the office of the City Administrator. If the bill remains
unpaid, after notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as it may be
amended from time to time, the City Administrator may list the total unpaid
charges along with all other charges as well as charges for current services to
be assessed under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to time,
against each separate lot or parcel to which the charges are attributable. The
City Council may then certify the charges against the property under that
statute and other pertinent statutes to the County Auditor for collection along
with current taxes the following year or in annual installments as the City
Council may determine in each case.
   (G)   Damage to public property. Any person driving any vehicle, equipment,
object or contrivance upon any street, road, highway or structure shall be
liable for all damages which the surface or structure thereof may sustain as a
result of any illegal operation, or driving or moving of the vehicle, equipment
or object or contrivance; or as a result of operating, driving or moving any
vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance weighing in excess of the maximum
weight permitted by statute or this code. When the driver is not the owner of
the vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance, but is operating, driving or
moving it with the express or implied permission of the owner, then the owner
and the driver shall be jointly and severally liable for any damage. Any person
who willfully acts or fails to exercise due care and by that act damages any
public property shall be liable for the amount thereof, which amount shall be
collectable by action or as a lien under M.S. § 514.67, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (H)   Assessment. On or before November 30 of each year, the City
Administrator shall list the total unpaid charges for each type of current
service and charges under this section against each separate lot or parcel to
which they are attributable under this section. The City Council may then
spread the charges against property benefitted as a special assessment under
the authority of M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to time, and
other pertinent statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collection
along with current taxes the following year or in annual installments, not
exceeding ten, as the City Council may determine in each case.
Penalty, see §
97.999
Cross-reference:
   Additional snow and ice removal provisions, see §§
90.015 et seq.
§ 97.002 TREE DISEASES AND SHADE TREE PEST CONTROL.
   (A)   Declaration of policy. The health of the trees in the city is
threatened by shade tree pests, and the loss or ill health of trees growing
upon public and private property substantially depreciates the value of
property within the city and impairs the safety, good order, general welfare
and convenience of the public. In addition to and in accordance with M.S. §§
89.001, 89.01 and 89.51 through 89.64, as those sections may be amended from
time to time, the provisions of this section are adopted to attempt to control
and prevent the spread of these shade tree pests.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The city shall have control of all street trees, shrubs
and other plantings now or hereafter in any street, park, public right-of-way
or easement or other public place within the city limits, and shall have the
power to plant, care for, maintain, remove and replace the trees, shrubs and
other plantings.
   (C)   Declaration of a shade tree pest. The Council may declare any
vertebrate or invertebrate animal, plant pathogen or plant threatening to cause
significant damage to a shade tree or community forest in the community, to be
a shade tree pest and prescribe control measures to effectively eradicate,
control or manage the shade tree pest including necessary timelines for action.
   (D)   Public nuisances declared. A shade tree pest declared by Council
occurring within a declared control zone is a public nuisance.
   (E)   Shade tree pest nuisances are unlawful. It is unlawful for any person
to permit any public nuisance as defined in this section to remain on any
premises the person owns or controls within the city. The nuisance may be
abated as provided in this section.
   (F)   Definition of control areas. Upon declaring a shade tree pest, the
Council may define one or more locations within the geographic boundaries of
the city to be within a shade tree pest control area provided the locations are
characterized by biologic, composition, environmental and size factors
favorable to successful application of the control measures prescribed by
Council.
   (G)   Tree Inspector. The Council may appoint a Tree Inspector to coordinate
the activities of the city relating to the control and prevention of damage by
shade tree pests. The Tree Inspector will recommend to the Council the details
of any program for the declaration, control and prevention of shade tree pests.
The Tree Inspector is authorized to enforce or cause to be enforced the duties
incident to the program adopted by the Council. The term TREE INSPECTOR
includes any person designated by Council or the Tree Inspector to carry out
activities authorized in this section.
   (H)   Abatement of shade tree pest nuisances.
      (1)   In abating a nuisance declared by ordinance under divisions (B) and
(C) above, the organism, condition or plant and any tree, wood or material
identified as injurious to the health of shade trees shall be removed or
effectively treated so as to destroy and prevent as fully as possible the
spread of the shade tree pest. The abatement procedures shall be carried out in
accordance with the control measures and areas prescribed by ordinance
according to divisions (C) above and (K) and (O) below.
      (2)   In addition, should the appropriate abatement procedure be removal
and the tree(s) and/or hedge(s) be within the limits of a highway in a rural
area within the city's jurisdiction, M.S. § 160.22, as it may be amended from
time to time, shall be complied with as necessary.
   (I)   Reporting discovery of shade tree pest. Any owner or occupier of land
or any person engaged in tree trimming or removal who becomes aware of the
existence of public nuisance caused by a shade tree pest as defined under
division (C) above shall report the same to the city.
   (J)   Registration of tree care firms. Any person, firm or corporation that
provides tree care, tree trimming or removal of trees, limbs, branches, brush
or shrubs for hire must be registered with the State Commissioner of
Agriculture under M.S. § 18G.07, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (K)   Inspection and application of control measures.
      (1)   The Tree Inspector is authorized to cause premises and places
within the city to be inspected to determine whether shade tree pests exist
thereon and to investigate all reported incidents of shade tree pests. The Tree
Inspector shall have the power to take all reasonable precautions to prevent
the maintenance of public nuisances and may enforce the provisions relating to
abatement in this section. Diagnosis of shade tree pests may be by the presence
of commonly recognized symptoms or by tests as may be recommended by the
Commissioner of the State Department of Agriculture or the Commissioner of the
State Department of Natural Resources.
      (2)   Except in situations of imminent danger to human life and safety,
the Tree Inspector shall not enter private property for the purpose of
inspecting or preventing maintenance of public nuisances without the permission
of the owner, resident or other person in control of the property, unless the
Tree Inspector has obtained a warrant or order from a court of competent
jurisdiction authorizing the entry.
      (3)   No person, firm or corporation shall interfere with the Tree
Inspector acting under his or her authority while engaged in activities
authorized by this section.
   (L)   Standard abatement procedure. Except as provided in divisions (M) and
(O) below, whenever a Tree Inspector determines with reasonable certainty that
a public nuisance as described by this section is being maintained or exists on
premises in the city, the Tree Inspector is authorized to abate a public
nuisance according to the following procedure.
      (1)   The Tree Inspector will notify in writing the owner of record or
occupant of the premises of the fact and order that the nuisance be terminated
or abated. The notice must be given in person or by mail. Failure of any party
to receive the mail does not invalidate the service of the notice. A copy of
the notice shall be filed with the City Administrator.
      (2)   The notice of abatement shall state that unless the public nuisance
is abated by the owner or occupant, it will be abated by the city at the
expense of the owner or occupant. The notice shall specify the control measures
to be taken to abate the nuisance, and provide a reasonable amount of time to
abate the nuisance. The notice will also state that the owner or occupant has
the right to appeal the determination that a public nuisance exists by
submitting a request in writing to the City Administrator within seven days
after service of the notice, or before the date by which abatement must be
completed, whichever comes first.
      (3)   If no timely appeal is submitted, and the notice of abatement and
its prescribed control measures are not complied with within the time provided
by the notice or any additional time granted, the Tree Inspector or designated
person shall have the authority to obtain permission or an administrative
search warrant, enter the property and carry out abatement in accordance with
the notice of abatement.
   (M)   High cost abatement. If the Tree Inspector determines that the cost of
abating a nuisance will exceed $5,000 based on a reasonable, good faith
estimate, the written notice referred to in division (L) above must provide
that if the nuisance is not abated within the reasonable amount of time
provided, the matter will be referred to the City Council for a hearing. The
date, time and location of the hearing must be provided in the notice.
   (N)   Appeal procedure. If the City Administrator receives a written request
for a hearing on the question of whether a public nuisance in fact exists, the
City Council shall hold a hearing within seven calendar days following receipt
by the City Administrator of the written request. At least three days notice
shall be given to the individual who made the written request for the hearing.
The Council may modify the abatement notice or extend the time by which
abatement must be completed. Each owner, agent of the owner, occupant and
lienholder of the subject property or properties in attendance, if any, shall
be given the opportunity to present evidence at the hearing. After holding the
hearing, the City Council may issue an order requiring abatement of the
nuisance.
   (O)   Abatement procedure in event of imminent danger.
      (1) If the Tree Inspector determines that the danger of infestation to
other shade trees is imminent and delay in control measures may put public
health, safety or welfare in immediate danger, the Tree Inspector may provide
for abatement without following divisions (L) or (M) above. The Tree Inspector
must reasonably attempt to notify the owner or occupant of the affected
property of the intended action and the right to appeal the abatement and any
cost recovery at the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting.
      (2)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the
city, without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition
which poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
   (P)   Recovery of cost of abatement; liability and assessment.
      (1)   The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been abated by the
city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the abatement,
including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been completed and the
cost determined, the City Administrator or other official shall prepare a bill
for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon the amount shall be
immediately due and payable at the office of the City Administrator.
      (2)   After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as it may
be amended from time to time, the City Administrator may list the total unpaid
charges along with all other charges as well as other charges for current
services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101 against each separate lot or
parcel to which the charges are attributable. The City Council may then certify
the charges against the property under that statute and other pertinent
statutes to the County Auditor for collection along with current taxes the
following year or in annual installments as the City Council may determine in
each case.
   (Q)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
section shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which
may be imposed for any crime which is a misdemeanor under this section,
including the state statutes specifically adopted by reference, shall be a
sentence of not more than 90 days or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
      (2)   Upon conviction of a misdemeanor, the costs of prosecution may be
added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which
a violation occurs or continues.
      (3)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this section shall not subject the officer or employee
to the penalty imposed for a violation.
      (4)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section, if any
person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of this section,
the City Council or any official designated by it, may institute appropriate
proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the violation.
   (R)   Declared shade tree pests, control measures and control areas.
      (1)   Oak wilt. Oak wilt is declared a shade tree pest and is defined as
any living or dead tree, log, firewood, limb, branch, stump or other portion of
a tree from any species of the genus Quercus existing within the control area
defined that has bark attached and that exceeds three inches in diameter or ten
inches in circumference and contains to any degree any spore or reproductive
structures of the fungus Ceratocystis fagacaarum. Control measures prescribed
for abating oak wilt disease are:
         (a)   Installation of a root graft barrier. A root graft barrier can
be ordered installed to prevent the underground spread of oak wilt disease. The
city will mark the location of the root graft barrier. The barrier disrupts
transmission of the fungus within the shared vascular systems of root grafted
trees. The barrier is created by excavating or vibratory plowing a line at
least 42 inches deep between any oak tree infected with oak wilt disease and
each nearby and apparently healthy oak tree within 50 feet of the infected
tree.
         (b)   Removal and disposal of trees on property zoned for residential
and commercial use. On property that is zoned residential and commercial the
city may mark for removal trees that have the potential to produce spores of
the fungus Ceratocvstis fagacearum. After, and in no case before the
installation of the root graft barrier and no later than May 1 of the year
following infection all marked trees must be felled. The stump from the felled
trees must not extend more than three inches above the ground or, if taller,
must be completely debarked. If, however, after the city prescribes the
location for a root graft barrier, the city determines that installation of the
barrier is impossible because of the presence of pavement or obstructions such
as a septic system or utility line, the city may mark for removal all oak trees
whether living or dead, infected or not and located between an infected tree
and the marked barrier location. These marked trees must be felled and disposed
of no later than May 1 of the year following infection. The stump from the
felled trees must not extend more than three inches above the ground or, if
taller, must be completely debarked.
         (c)   Removal and disposal of trees on all other property. On all
other property the city may mark for removal all oak trees whether living or
dead, infected or not and located between an infected tree and the marked
barrier location. These marked trees must be felled and disposed of no later
than May 1 of the year following infection. The stump from the felled trees
must not extend more than three inches above the ground or, if taller, must be
completely debarked.
         (d)   Wood disposal. All wood more than three inches in diameter or
ten inches in circumference from the felled trees must be disposed of by
burying or debarking or chipping or sawing into wane-free lumber or by
splitting into firewood, stacking the firewood and immediately covering the
woodpile with unbroken four mm or thicker plastic sheeting that is sealed into
the ground until October 1 of the calendar year following the calendar year in
which the tree was felled or by burning before May 1 of the year following
infection. Wood chips from infected trees may be stockpiled or immediately used
in the landscape.
         (e)   Control area. The control area for oak wilt disease is defined
as all lands within the boundaries of the city.
      (2)   Emerald ash borer. Emerald ash borer is declared a shade tree pest
and is defined as an insect that attacks and kills ash trees. The adults are
small, iridescent green beetles that live outside of trees during the summer
months. The larvae are grub or worm-like and live underneath the bark of ash
trees.
         (a)   Control measures. Control measures prescribed for abating
emerald ash borer are those provided in the document, Minnesota Emerald Ash
Borer Science Advisory Group Recommendations on Preparing for Emerald Ash Borer
in Minnesota.
         (b)   Definition of control areas. The control area for emerald ash
borer is defined as all lands within the boundaries of the city.
      (3)   Dutch elm disease. Dutch elm disease is declared a shade tree pest
and is defined as a disease of elm trees caused by the fungus Ophiostoma ulmi
or Ophiostoma novo-ulmi, and includes any living or dead tree, log, firewood,
limb, branch, stump or other portion of a tree from any species of the genus
Ulmus existing within the control area defined that has bark attached and that
exceeds three inches in diameter or ten inches in circumference and could
contain bark beetles or any spore or reproductive structures of the fungus
Ophiostoma ulmi or Ophiostoma novo-ulmi.
         (a)   Control measures. Control measures prescribed for abating Dutch
elm disease are:
            1.   Use of fungicide. Fungicides may be effective in preventing
Dutch elm disease when injected into living trees that do not already show
symptoms of Dutch elm disease. Fungicide injections on private lands are
optional and, if performed, are at the landowner's expense.
            2.   Removal and disposal of trees. Prompt removal of diseased
trees or branches reduces breeding sites for elm bark beetles and eliminates
the source of Dutch elm disease fungus. Trees that wilt before July 15 must be
removed within 20 days of detection (alternative: 30 days). Trees that wilt
after July 15 must be removed by April 1 of the following year. Diseased trees
not promptly removed will be removed by the city at the landowner's expense.
Wood may be retained for use as firewood or sawlogs if it is de-barked or
covered from April 15 to October 15 with four millimeter plastic. The edges of
the cover must be buried or scaled to the ground.
         (b)   Definition of control areas. The control area for Dutch elm
disease is defined as all lands within the boundaries of the city.
NUISANCES
§ 97.015 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Whoever by his or her act or failure to perform a legal duty intentionally
does any of the following is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, which is
a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage any public
highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Is guilty of any other act or omission declared by law or §§
97.016,
97.017 or
97.018, or any other part of this code to be a public nuisance and for which no
sentence is specifically provided.
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.016 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease;
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license; and
   (L)   All unnecessary and annoying vibrations.
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.017 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized by federal, state or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining that place. For the purposes of this
section INTOXICATING LIQUOR shall mean any ethyl alcohol, distilled, fermented,
spirituous, vinous or malt beverage containing more than 0.5% alcohol by
volume; and
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating
liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or illegal
purpose.
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.018 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 24 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   All obnoxious noises in violation of Minn. Rules Chapter 7030, as they
may be amended from time to time which are hereby incorporated by reference
into this code;
   (E)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharging of the
exhaust of any stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all terrain vehicle, snowmobile or any recreational device
except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud or
explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
   (F)   The using or operation or permitting the using or operation of any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine or
other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a distinctly and loudly
audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of any person
nearby. Operation of any device referred to above between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at the property line
of the structure or building in which it is located, or at a distance of 50
feet if the source is located outside a structure or building shall be prima
facie evidence of violation of this section;
   (G)   No person shall participate in any party or other gathering of people
giving rise to noise, unreasonably disturbing the peace, quiet or repose of
another person. When a police officer determines that a gathering is creating a
noise disturbance, the officer may order all persons present, other than the
owner or tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to disperse
immediately. No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered by a police
officer to do so. Every owner or tenant of the premises who has knowledge of
the disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the disturbance
is stopped;
   (H)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds except under conditions as are
permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (I)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (J)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (K)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not constructed
and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (L)   The allowing of rain water, ice or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (M)   Any barbed wire fence less than six feet above the ground and within
three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (N)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (O)   Wastewater cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other public
properties;
   (P)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies or other material in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health or safety
hazards from accumulation;
   (Q)   Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
another condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (R)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter or ditch with trash or other materials;
   (S)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
   (T)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property; and
   (U)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone.
   (V)   (1)   Noises prohibited.
         (a)   General prohibition. No person shall make or cause to be made
any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys, disturbs,
injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety or welfare of
any person or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property's
value. This general prohibition is not limited by the specific restrictions of
this section.
         (b)   Defective vehicles or loads. No person shall use any vehicle so
out of repair or so loaded as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling or other noise.
         (c)   Loading, unloading, unpacking. No person shall create loud or
excessive noise in loading, unloading or unpacking any vehicle.
         (d)   Radios, phonographs, paging systems and the like. No person
shall use or operate or permit the use or operation of any radio receiving set,
musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine or other device for the
production or reproduction of sound in a distinct and loudly audible manner as
to unreasonably disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of any person nearby.
Operation of any set, instrument, phonograph, machine or other device between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner as to be plainly audible at
the property line of the structure or building in which it is located, in the
hallway or apartment adjacent, or at a distance of 50 feet if the source is
located outside a structure or building, shall be prima facie evidence of a
violation of this section.
         (e)   Schools, churches, hospitals and the like. No person shall
create any excessive noise on a street, alley or public grounds adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, church or hospital when the noise unreasonably
interferes with the working of the institution or disturbs or unduly annoys its
occupants or residents and when conspicuous signs indicate the presence of the
institution.
      (2)   Hourly restriction of certain operations.
         (a)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill or
other similar domestic power maintenance equipment except between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any day. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this
provision.
         (b)   Refuse hauling. No person shall collect or remove garbage or
refuse in any residential district except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on
any weekend or holiday.
         (c)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. on any weekend or holiday.
      (3)   Noise impact statements. The Council may require any person
applying for a change in zoning classification or a permit or license for any
structure, operation, process, installation or alteration or project that may
be considered a potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a
form prescribed by the Council. It shall evaluate each statement and take its
evaluation into account in approving or disapproving the license or permit
applied for or the zoning change requested.
   (W)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
foot candles as measured on the property line of the property where the
lighting is located when abutting any residential parcel, and one footcandle
when abutting any commercial or industrial parcel.
   (X)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
foot candles as measured on the property line of the property where the
lighting is located when abutting any residential parcel and one footcandle
when abutting any commercial or industrial parcel.
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.019 NUISANCE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking and storage on
residentially-zoned property of large numbers of vehicles and vehicles,
materials, supplies or equipment not customarily used for residential purposes
in violation of the requirements set forth below is declared to be a public
nuisance because it:
      (1)   Obstructs views on streets and private property;
      (2)   Creates cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas;
      (3)   Prevents the full use of residential streets for residential
parking;
      (4)   Introduces commercial advertising signs into areas where commercial
advertising signs are otherwise prohibited;
      (5)   Decreases adjoining landowners' and occupants' enjoyment of their
property and neighborhood; and
      (6)   Otherwise adversely affects property values and neighborhood
patterns.
   (B)   Unlawful parking and storage.
      (1)   A person must not place, store or allow the placement or storage of
ice fish houses, skateboard ramps, playhouses or other similar non-permanent
structures outside continuously for longer than 24 hours in the front-yard area
of residential property unless more than 100 feet back from the front property
line.
      (2)   A person must not place, store or allow the placement or storage of
pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery or similar materials, including all
materials used in connection with a business, outside on residential property,
unless shielded from public view by an opaque cover or fence.
      (3)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles on residential property unless it complies with
the following requirements.
         (a)   No more than four vehicles per lawful dwelling unit may be
parked or stored anywhere outside on residential property, except as otherwise
permitted or required by the city because of nonresidential characteristics of
the property. This maximum number does not include vehicles of occasional
guests who do not reside on the property.
         (b)   Vehicles that are parked or stored outside in the front-yard
area must be on a paved or graveled parking or driveway area.
         (c)   Vehicles, watercraft and other articles stored outside on
residential property must be owned by a person who resides on that property.
Students who are away at school for periods of time but still claim the
property as their legal residence will be considered residents on the property.
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.020 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep, park, store or abandon any motor vehicle
which is not in operating condition, partially dismantled, used for repair of
parts or as a source of repair or replacement parts for other vehicles, kept
for scrapping, dismantling or salvage of any kind, or which is not properly
licensed for operation with the state, pursuant to M.S. § 168B.011, Subdivision
3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a motor vehicle enclosed in a building
and/or kept out of view from any street, road or alley, and which does not
foster complaint from a resident of the city. A privacy fence is permissible.
   (C)   Any motor vehicles described in this section constitute a hazard to
the health and welfare of the residents of the community in that the vehicles
can harbor noxious diseases, furnish a shelter and breeding place for vermin
and present physical danger to the safety and well-being of children and
citizens; and vehicles containing fluids which, if released into the
environment, can and do cause significant health risks to the community.
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.021 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Buildings, fences and other structures that
have been so poorly maintained that their physical condition and appearance
detract from the surrounding neighborhood are declared to be public nuisances
because they:
      (1)   Are unsightly;
      (2)   Decrease adjoining landowners and occupants' enjoyment of their
property and neighborhood; and
      (3)   Adversely affect property values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Standards. A building, fence or other structure is a public nuisance
if it does not comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   No part of any exterior surface may have deterioration, holes,
breaks, gaps, loose or rotting boards or timbers.
      (2)   Every exterior surface that has had a surface finish such as paint
applied must be maintained to avoid noticeable deterioration of the finish. No
wall or other exterior surface may have peeling, cracked, chipped or otherwise
deteriorated surface finish on more than 20% of:
         (a)   Any one wall or other flat surface; or
         (b)   All door and window moldings, eaves, gutters and similar
projections on any one side or surface.
      (3)   No glass, including windows and exterior light fixtures, may be
broken or cracked, and no screens may be torn or separated from moldings.
      (4)   Exterior doors and shutters must be hung properly and have an
operable mechanism to keep them securely shut or in place.
      (5)   Cornices, moldings, lintels, sills, bay or dormer windows and
similar projections must be kept in good repair and free from cracks and
defects that make them hazardous or unsightly.
      (6)   Roof surfaces must be tight and have no defects that admit water.
All roof drainage systems must be secured and hung properly.
      (7)   Chimneys, antennae, air vents and other similar projections must be
structurally sound and in good repair. These projections must be secured
properly, where applicable, to an exterior wall or exterior roof.
      (8)   Foundations must be structurally sound and in good repair.
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.022 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   For purposes of §§
97.022 and
97.023, the Police Department or Sheriff or person designated by the City
Council under §
10.20, if the city has at the time no Police Department, may enforce the
provisions relating to nuisances. Any peace officer or designated person shall
have the power to inspect private premises and take all reasonable precautions
to prevent the commission and maintenance of public nuisances. Except in
emergency situations of imminent danger to human life and safety, no police
officer or designated person shall enter private property for the purpose of
inspecting or preventing public nuisances without the permission of the owner,
resident or other person in control of the property, unless the officer or
person designated has obtained a warrant or order from a court of competent
jurisdiction authorizing the entry, as provided in §
10.20.
§ 97.023 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice. Written notice of violation; notice of the time, date, place
and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of City Council
order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be given as
set forth in this section.
      (1)   Notice of violation. Written notice of violation shall be served by
a peace officer or designated person on the owner of record or occupant of the
premises either in person or by certified or registered mail. If the premises
is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the owner of record or
occupant refuses to accept notice of violation, notice of violation shall be
served by posting it on the premises.
      (2)   Notice of City Council hearing. Written notice of any City Council
hearing to determine or abate a nuisance shall be served on the owner of record
and occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or registered
mail. If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the
owner of record or occupant refuses to accept notice of the City Council
hearing, notice of City Council hearing shall be served by posting it on the
premises.
      (3)   Notice of City Council order. Except for those cases determined by
the city to require summary enforcement, written notice of any City Council
order shall be made as provided in M.S. § 463.17 (Hazardous and Substandard
Building Act), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Notice of motion for summary enforcement. Written notice of any
motion for summary enforcement shall be made as provided for in M.S. § 463.17
(Hazardous and Substandard Building Act), as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (B)   Procedure. Whenever a peace officer or designated person determines
that a public nuisance is being maintained or exists on the premises in the
city, the officer or person designated may notify in writing the owner of
record or occupant of the premises of the fact and order that the nuisance be
terminated or abated. The notice of violation shall specify the steps to be
taken to abate the nuisance and the time within which the nuisance is to be
abated. If the notice of violation is not complied with within the time
specified, the officer or designated person shall report that fact forthwith to
the City Council. Thereafter, the City Council may, after notice to the owner
or occupant and an opportunity to be heard, determine that the condition
identified in the notice of violation is a nuisance and further order that if
the nuisance is not abated within the time prescribed by the City Council, the
city may seek injunctive relief by serving a copy of the City Council order and
notice of motion for summary enforcement or obtain an administrative search and
seizure warrant and abate the nuisance.
   (C)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement. In cases of emergency, where
delay in abatement required to complete the notice and procedure requirements
set forth in divisions (A) and (B) of this section will permit a continuing
nuisance to unreasonably endanger public health safety or welfare, the City
Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance. To proceed with
summary enforcement, the officer or designated person shall determine that a
public nuisance exists or is being maintained on premises in the city and that
delay in abatement of the nuisance will unreasonably endanger public health,
safety or welfare. The officer or designated person shall notify in writing the
occupant or owner of the premises of the nature of the nuisance and of the
city's intention to seek summary enforcement and the time and place of the City
Council meeting to consider the question of summary enforcement. The City
Council shall determine whether or not the condition identified in the notice
to the owner or occupant is a nuisance, whether public health, safety or
welfare will be unreasonably endangered by delay in abatement required to
complete the procedure set forth in division (A) of this section, and may order
that the nuisance be immediately terminated or abated. If the nuisance is not
immediately terminated or abated, the City Council may order summary
enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition which
poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.024 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city or a person who has caused a public nuisance on a property
not owned by that person shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of
the abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Administrator or other official
shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon the
amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City
Administrator.
   (B)   Assessment. After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as
it may be amended from time to time, if the nuisance is a public health or
safety hazard on private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public
sidewalks, the growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled
portion of streets, or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City Administrator
shall list the total unpaid charges along with all other charges as well as
other charges for current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101 against
each separate lot or parcel to which the charges are attributable. The City
Council may then spread the charges against the property under that statute and
other pertinent statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collection
along with current taxes the following year or in annual installments, not
exceeding ten, as the City Council may determine in each case.
Penalty, see §
97.999
WEEDS
§ 97.035 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be cited as the "Weed Ordinance."
§ 97.036 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter shall be in addition to any state statute or regulation or
county ordinance presently in effect, subsequently added, amended or repealed.
§ 97.037 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the City Council or designated
city official, in cases of appeal, on the property owner of the ordinance
violation that shall conform to M.S. § 18.83, Subdivision 2, as it may be
amended from time to time.
      MEADOW VEGETATION. Grasses and flowering broad-leaf plants that are
native to, or adapted to, the state and that are commonly found in meadow and
prairie plant communities, except weeds as defined herein.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-
of-way, easement, license or lease.
      WEEDS, GRASSES and RANK VEGETATION. Includes but is not limited to the
following:
         (a)   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation shall include but not be
limited to: alum (allium), Buckthorn, Bur Cucumber, Canada Thistle, Corncockle,
Cressleaf Groundsel, Curly Dock, Dodder, Field Bindweed, French Weed, Hairy
Whitetop, Hedge Bindweed, Hoary Cress, Horsenettle, Johnsongrass, Leafy Spurge,
Mile-A-Minute Weed, Musk Thistle, Oxeye Daisy, Perennial Sowthistle, Poison
Hemlock, Purple Loosestrife, Quackgrass, Russian Knapweed, Russian Thistle,
Serrated Tussock, Shatter Cane, Sorghum, Wild Carrot, Wild Garlic, Wild
Mustard, Wild Onion, Wild Parsnip;
         (b)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not pruned,
sprayed, cultivated or otherwise maintained for two consecutive years;
         (c)   Bushes of the species of tall, common or European barberry,
further known as berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties;
         (d)   Any weeds, grass or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers or
other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding 12 inches;
         (e)   Rank vegetation includes the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth
of annuals and perennial plants;
         (f)   The term WEEDS does not include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants
or crops; and
         (g)   Any other weed designated by M.S. § 18.77, Subdivision 8, Minn.
Rules 1505.0730, 1505.0732 or 1505.0750, as they may be amended from time to
time, as noxious.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
§ 97.038 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   All property owners shall be responsible for the removal, cutting or
disposal and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other
uncontrolled plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice, is in
excess of 12 inches in height.
   (B)   These provisions shall not apply to an area established with meadow
vegetation if:
      (1)   The prior vegetation is eliminated and the meadow vegetation is
planted through transplanting or seed by human or mechanical means; and
      (2)   A sign is posted on the property in a location likely to be seen by
the public, advising that a meadow or prairie is being established. This sign
must be no smaller than ten inches square, no larger than one square foot and
no higher than three feet tall.
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.039 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the city, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the city which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter shall make a written complaint signed, dated and
filed with the City Administrator. If the city makes the complaint, an
employee, officer or Council Member of the city shall file the complaint in all
respects as set out above.
§ 97.040 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in violation
of this subchapter, a person designated by the City Council shall make an
inspection and prepare a written report to the City Council regarding the
condition. The City Council, upon concluding that there is a probable belief
that this subchapter has been violated, shall forward written notification in
the form of a "Destruction Order" to the property owner or the person occupying
the property as that information is contained within the records of the City
Administrator or any other city agency. The notice shall be served in writing
by certified mail. The notice shall provide that within seven regular business
days after the receipt of the notice that the designated violation shall be
removed by the property owner or person occupying the property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing and all filings are to be with
the City Administrator.
      (2)   Certified mailing to the City Administrator or others is deemed
filed on the date of posting to the United States postal service.
§ 97.041 APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the City Council within 48 hours of the notice, excluding weekends and
holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the City Council. It is
the property owner's responsibility to demonstrate that the matter in question
is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops or is not otherwise in violation
of this subchapter, and should not be subject to destruction under the
subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the City
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council members in
attendance and being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the City
Council.
§ 97.042 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
"destruction order" within seven regular business days and has not filed a
notice within 48 hours to the City Administrator of an intent to appeal, the
City Council may employ the services of city employees or outside contractors
and remove the weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful means. No
person shall enter the property to abate the nuisance, except with the
permission of the owner, resident or other person in control of the property.
§ 97.043 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting or
destruction of weeds as defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including but not limited to court costs, attorney's
fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the city. If the city uses
municipal employees, it shall set and assign an appropriate per hour rate for
employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the City
Administrator and to be deposited in a general fund as compensation for
expenses and costs incurred by the city.
   (D)   All sums payable by the property owner may be collected as a special
assessment as provided by M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time.
OPEN BURNING
§ 97.060 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE CHIEF, FIRE MARSHAL and ASSISTANT FIRE MARSHALS. The Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal and Assistant Fire Marshals of the Fire Department which provides fire
protection services to the city.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter if the resultant combustion products
are emitted directly to the atmosphere without passing through a stack, duct or
chimney, except a "recreational fire" as defined herein. Mobile cooking devices
such as manufactured hibachis, charcoal grills, wood smokers and propane or
natural gas devices are not defined as OPEN BURNING.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire set with approved starter fuel no more than three
feet in height, contained within the border of a "recreational fire site" using
dry, clean wood; producing little detectable smoke, odor or soot beyond the
property line; conducted with an adult tending the fire at all times; for
recreational, ceremonial, food preparation for social purposes; extinguished
completely before quitting the occasion; and respecting weather conditions,
neighbors, burning bans and air quality so that nuisance, health or safety
hazards will not be created. No more than one RECREATIONAL FIRE is allowed on
any property at one time.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE. An area of no more than a three foot diameter circle
(measured from the inside of the fire ring or border); completely surrounded by
non-combustible and non-smoke or odor producing material, either of natural
rock, cement, brick, tile or blocks or ferrous metal only and which area is
depressed below ground, on the ground, or on a raised bed. Included are
permanent outdoor wood burning fireplaces. Burning barrels are not a RECREATION
FIRE SITE as defined herein. Recreational fire sites shall not be located
closer than 25 feet to any structure.
   RUNNING FIRE. An attended fire allowed to spread through surface vegetative
matter under controlled conditions for the purpose of vegetative management,
forest management, game habitat management, or agricultural improvement.
   STARTER FUELS. Dry, untreated, unpainted, kindling, branches, cardboard or
charcoal fire starter. Paraffin candles and alcohols are permitted as starter
fuels and as aids to ignition only. Propane gas torches or other clean gas
burning devices causing minimal pollution must be used to start an open burn.
   VEGETATIVE MATERIALS. Dry leaves, dry grass clippings, twigs, branches, tree
limbs, untreated or unpainted wood that contains no glues or resins and other
similar materials. Paper and cardboard are not considered VEGETATIVE MATERIALS.
   WOOD. Dry, clean fuel only such as twigs, branches, limbs, "presto logs,"
charcoal, cord wood or untreated dimensional lumber. The term does not include
wood that is green with leaves or needles, rotten, wet, oil soaked or treated
with paint, glue or preservatives. Clean pallets may be used for recreational
fires when cut into three-foot lengths.
§ 97.061 PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning oils, petro
fuels, rubber, plastics, chemically treated materials or other materials which
produce excessive or noxious smoke such as tires, railroad ties, treated,
painted or glued wood composite shingles, tar paper, insulation, composition
board, sheet rock, wiring, paint or paint fillers.
   (B)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of hazardous
waste or salvage operations, open burning of solid waste generated from an
industrial or manufacturing process or from a service or commercial
establishment or building material generated from demolition of commercial or
institutional structures.
   (C)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of discarded
material resulting from the handling, processing, storage, preparation, serving
or consumption of food.
   (D)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of any leaves or
grass clippings.
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.062 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   No person shall start or allow any open burning on any property in the city
without first having obtained an open burn permit, except that a permit is not
required for any fire which is a recreational fire as defined in §
97.060.
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.063 PURPOSES ALLOWED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Open burn permits may be issued only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Elimination of fire or health hazard that cannot be abated by other
practical means;
      (2)   Ground thawing for utility repair and construction;
      (3)   Disposal of vegetative matter for managing forest, prairie or
wildlife habitat, and in the development and maintenance of land and rights-of-
way where chipping, composting, landspreading or other alternative methods are
not practical;
      (4)   Disposal of diseased trees generated on-site, diseased or infected
nursery stock, diseased bee hives;
      (5)   Disposal of unpainted, untreated, non-glued lumber and wood shakes
generated from construction, where recycling, reuse, removal or other
alternative disposal methods are not practical; and
      (6)   Running fires.
   (B)   Fire training permits can only be issued by the State Department of
Natural Resources.
   (C)   Permits for the operation of permanent tree and brush burning sites
may only be issued by the State Department of Natural Resources (DNR).
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.064 PERMIT APPLICATION FOR OPEN BURNING; PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Open burning permits shall be obtained by making application on a form
prescribed the Department of Natural Resources (DNR) and adopted by the Fire
Department. The permit application shall be presented to the Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal and Assistant Fire Marshals for reviewing and processing those
applications.
   (B)   An open burning permit shall require the payment of a fee. Permit fees
shall be in the amount established and may be amended from time to time.
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.065 PERMIT PROCESS FOR OPEN BURNING.
   Upon receipt of the completed open burning permit application and permit
fee, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Assistant Fire Marshals, if he or she
reasonably believes necessary, may schedule a preliminary site inspection to
locate the proposed burn site, note special conditions and set dates and time
of permitted burn and review fire safety considerations.
§ 97.066 PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Prior to starting an open burn, the permit holder shall be responsible
for confirming that no burning ban or air quality alert is in effect. Every
open burn event shall be constantly attended by the permit holder or his or her
competent representative. The open burning site shall have available,
appropriate communication and fire suppression equipment as set out in the fire
safety plan.
   (B)   The open burn fire shall be completely extinguished before the permit
holder or his or her representative leaves the site. No fire may be allowed to
smolder with no person present. It is the responsibility of the permit holder
to have a valid permit, as required by this subchapter, available for
inspection on the site by the Police Department, Fire Department, MPCA
representative or DNR forest officer.
   (C)   The permit holder is responsible for compliance and implementation of
all general conditions, special conditions, and the burn event safety plan as
established in the permit issued. The permit holder shall be responsible for
all costs incurred as a result of the burn, including but not limited to fire
suppression and administrative fees.
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.067 REVOCATION OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   The open burning permit is subject to revocation at the discretion of DNR
forest officer, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Assistant Fire Marshals.
Reasons for revocation include but are not limited to a fire hazard existing or
developing during the course of the burn, any of the conditions of the permit
being violated during the course of the burn, pollution or nuisance conditions
developing during the course of the burn, or a fire smoldering with no flame
present.
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.068 DENIAL OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   If established criteria for the issuance of an open burning permit are not
met during review of the application, it is determined that a practical
alternative method for disposal of the material exists, or a pollution or
nuisance condition would result, or if a burn event safety plan cannot be
drafted to the satisfaction of the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Assistant Fire
Marshals, these officers may deny the application for the open burn permit.
§ 97.069 BURNING BAN OR AIR QUALITY ALERT.
   No recreational fire or open burn will be permitted when the city or DNR has
officially declared a burning ban due to potential hazardous fire conditions or
when the MPCA has declared an Air Quality Alert.
Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.070 RULES AND LAWS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. §§ 88.16 to 88.22, as these statutes may be amended
from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
subchapter as if fully set forth at this point.
§ 97.071 EXTERNAL SOLID FUEL-FIRED HEATING DEVICES (OUTDOOR WOOD BURNING
STOVES).
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   EXTERNAL SOLID FUEL-FIRED HEATING DEVICE. A device designed for
external solid fuel combustion so that usable heat is derived for the interior
of a building, and includes solid fuel-fired stoves, solid fuel-fired cooking
stoves and combination fuel furnaces or boiler which burn solid fuel. Solid
fuel-fired heating devices do not include natural gas-fired fireplace logs or
wood-burning fireplaces or wood stoves in the interior of a dwelling.
      (2)   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, company or other
association.
      (3)   STACKS OR CHIMNEYS. Any vertical structure incorporated into a
building and enclosing a flue or flues that carry off smoke or exhaust from a
solid fuel-fired heating device, especially, the part of a structure extending
above a roof.
   (B)   Requirements for operation.
      (1)   Any dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot or cinders, in
unreasonable quantities, or any use of an external solid fuel-fired heating
device to burn solid fuels other than those solid fuels for which the external
solid fuel-fired heating device was designed, is declared a public nuisance.
      (2)   No person may install, use or operate an external solid fuel fired
heating device on a lot less than four acres in size.
      (3)   All stacks or chimneys must be so constructed to withstand high
winds or other related elements and in accordance to the specifications of the
manufacturer of the external solid fuel-fired heating device. The stack height
shall be a minimum of 25 feet above ground level, but shall also extend at
least as high as the height of the roofs of residents within 500 feet. All
stacks or chimneys must be of masonry or insulated metal with a minimum six-
inch flue.
      (4)   All external solid fuel-fired heating devices must be setback a
minimum of 50 feet from all property lines.
      (5)   All external solid fuel-fired heating devices must be setback a
minimum of ten feet from any principal or accessory structure.
   (C)   Fuels.
      (1)   Only fuels designed for burning in an external solid fuel-fired
heating device may be burned. No garbage may be burned in an external solid
fuel-fired heating device.
      (2)   The only fuel permitted to be burned is untreated fuel. Wood may
not be treated, processed, stained, finished or painted. Specifically
prohibited woods include plywood, particle board and similar products. Other
fuels, such as corn, shall not contain any additives, treatments or chemicals.
No petroleum products or processed materials of any kind may be burned.
GENERAL NUISANCES
§ 97.085 JUNK CARS, FURNITURE, HOUSEHOLD FURNISHINGS AND APPLIANCES STORED ON
PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful to park or store any unlicensed, unregistered or inoperable
motor vehicle, household furnishings or appliances or parts or components
thereof, on any property, public or private, unless housed within a lawfully
erected building. Any violation of this section is declared to be a nuisance
and upon seven days written notice to the owner, as shown by the records in the
office of the County Auditor, of private premises on which the material is
found, the city may remove the same and certify the cost of the removal as any
other special assessment.
(Prior Code, § 10.34) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.086 ABANDONING A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to abandon a motor vehicle on any public
or private property without the consent of the person in control of the
property.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, a MOTOR VEHICLE is as defined in M.S.
Chapter 169, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 10.35) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.087 PROHIBITED USE OF MOBILE HOMES AND RECREATIONAL CAMPING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the terms MOBILE HOME
and RECREATIONAL CAMPING VEHICLE shall mean and include the following
definitions.
      CAMPING TRAILER. A folding structure, mounted on wheels and designed for
travel, recreation and vacation uses.
      MOTOR HOME. A portable, temporary dwelling to be used for travel,
recreation and vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled
vehicle.
      PICK-UP COACH. A structure designed to be mounted on a truck chassis for
use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation.
      TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and
vacation uses, permanently identified TRAVEL TRAILER by the manufacturer of the
trailer.
   (B)   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to park a mobile home or
recreational camping vehicle upon public or private property for human
habitation except in a licensed mobile home park.
(Prior Code, § 10.36) (Ord. 16, effective 7-17-1981; Ord. 43, effective 12-23-
1983) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.088 MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is the primary responsibility of any owner or occupant of any lot
or parcel of land to maintain any weeds or grass growing thereon at a height of
not more than six inches; to remove all public health or safety hazards
therefrom; to install or repair water service lines thereon; and to treat or
remove insect-infested or diseased trees thereon.
   (B)   If any owner or occupant fails to assume the primary responsibility
described in division (A) above of this section, and after notice given by the
City Administrator has not within seven days of the notice complied, the city
may cause the work to be done and the expenses thus incurred shall be a lien
upon the real estate. The City Administrator shall certify to the County
Auditor a statement of the amount of the cost incurred by the city. The amount
together with interest shall be entered as a special assessment against the lot
or parcel of land and be collected in the same manner as real estate taxes.
(Prior Code, § 10.39) (Ord. 16, effective 7-17-1981; Ord. 53, effective 1-4-
1985) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.089 OPEN PITS, BASEMENTS AND OTHER EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person owning or in control of real estate to
have any pit, basement, well, septic tank, cesspool or other excavation on the
premises open and without protection for the public.
   (B)   If an excavation is open for 72 hours or less, it shall be protected
by use of flares or lights at night and a railing or other temporary protection
during the day.
   (C)   If it shall be permanently installed, it shall be protected with a
chain link fence at least 48 inches high, night and day.
(Prior Code, § 10.40) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.090 RADIO AND TELEVISION INTERFERENCE.
   It is unlawful for any person to maintain, use or operate any apparatus or
device whether electrical, mechanical or of any other type, so as to cause
interference with radio or television reception. This section shall not apply
to electro-medical devices provided that they are equipped so far as reasonably
possible with apparatus tending to reduce interference.
(Prior Code, § 10.41) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.999 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter, including maintaining a nuisance
after being notified in writing by first class mail of a violation of any
provision of this chapter, shall be a misdemeanor and punished as provided in §
10.99
CHAPTER 98: VENDING MACHINE REGULATIONS
Section
   
98.01   Purpose
   
98.02   Unlawful act
§ 98.01 PURPOSE.
   The Council finds that the proliferation of vending machines has made
certain areas of the city unsightly and hazardous to persons and property, and
that restrictions are necessary to promote the health, safety and welfare of
persons and property.
(Prior Code, § 10.42, Subd. 1)
§ 98.02 UNLAWFUL ACT.
   It is unlawful for any person to place or maintain a vending machine in any
street or upon other public property. It is also unlawful for any person to
place or maintain a vending machine on private property not in a building or
structure, except adjacent to a gasoline service station, a gasoline service
station operated in conjunction with a so-called "convenience store" selling
groceries and other convenience items, or adjacent to a grocery store.
(Prior Code, § 10.42, Subd. 2) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 99: CANNON VALLEY TRAIL REGULATIONS
Section
   
99.01   Purpose
   
99.02   Definitions
   
99.03   General conduct
   
99.04   Protection of natural resources
   
99.05   No camping
   
99.06   Horseback riding
   
99.07   Bicycling
   
99.08   Motorized recreation vehicles
   
99.09   Meetings, speeches, demonstrations and parades
   
99.10   Vehicles
   
99.11   Park operation and enforcement
§ 99.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter, which is enacted pursuant to M.S. Chapter 375,
as it may be amended from time to time, is to secure the quiet, orderly and
suitable use and enjoyment by the public of the Cannon Valley Trail.
(Prior Code, § 10.44, Subd. 1)
§ 99.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The appointed and elected members of the Cannon Valley Trail Board.
   CANNON VALLEY TRAIL. The Cannon Valley Trail established.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any drug, substance or immediate precursor in
Schedules I through V of M.S. § 152.02, as it may be amended from time to time.
   MOTORIZED RECREATION VEHICLE. Any self-propelled, off-road or all-terrain
conveyance including, but not limited to, a snowmobile, mini-bike, amphibious
vehicle, motorcycle, go-cart, trail bike or dune buggy.
   NATURAL RESOURCES. All flora and fauna within the Cannon Valley Trails and
the physical factors upon which they depend, including the air, water, soil and
minerals.
   PET. Any animal that is tamed and domesticated and kept as a companion.
   POLLUTANT. Any substance, liquid or gas, which could cause contamination of
any air, land or water so as to create or cause a nuisance or render unclean or
noxious or impure so as to be actually or potentially harmful or detrimental or
injurious to public health, safety or welfare to wildlife.
   RANGER. Those Cannon Valley Trail employees vested with the authority and
primary duties to enforce laws and ordinances relating to the Cannon Valley
Trails.
   TRAIL. Any land or water area, and all facilities thereon, under the
jurisdiction, control or ownership of the Cannon Valley Trail Board.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power.
   WEAPON. Any device, including, but not limited to, firearms, bows, slings
and spring guns, from which a shot or a projectile of any type can be
discharged or propelled by means of an explosive, gas, compressed air or other
means.
   WILDLIFE. All living animals, not human, wild by nature, including, but not
limited to, mammals, birds, fish, amphibians, reptiles, crustaceans, mollusks
and insects.
(Prior Code, § 10.44, Subd. 2)
§ 99.03 GENERAL CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Intentionally or with knowledge that his or her conduct is likely to
cause public inconvenience, annoyance or alarm:
      (1)   Engage in fighting, threatening or violent or tumultuous behavior;
or
      (2)   Otherwise create a hazardous or physically offensive condition.
   (B)   Serve, possess or consume any alcoholic beverage within the Cannon
Valley Trail unless authorized by permit from a ranger. Alcoholic beverages may
be served, possessed or consumed only at locations designated by the Cannon
Valley Trail Board;
   (C)   Bring beer into the Cannon Valley Trail in kegs, barrels or other bulk
tap quantities;
   (D)   Use, possess or sell any controlled substance;
   (E)   Intentionally deface, vandalize or otherwise cause destruction to park
property;
   (F)   Intentionally disturb, harass or interfere with a Cannon Valley Trail
visitor's property;
   (G)   Deposit, scatter, drop or abandon in or on the Cannon Valley Trail
bottles, cans, broken glass, hot coals, ashes, sewage, waste or other material,
except in receptacles provided for those purposes;
   (H)   Place any debris or other pollutant in or upon any body of water in
the Cannon Valley Trail;
   (I)   Start a fire in the Cannon Valley Trail except in a designated area,
and then only in fire rings, portable stoves or grills;
   (J)   Leave a fire unattended or fail to fully extinguish a fire;
   (K)   Scatter or leave unattended lighted matches, burning tobacco, paper or
other combustible material;
   (L)   Sell, solicit or conduct any commercial enterprise in the Cannon
Valley Trail unless authorized by the Board;
   (M)   Discharge wastewater or any other wastes in the Cannon Valley Trail
except into designated containers, drains or dumping stations;
   (N)   Dig trenches, holes or other excavations in the Cannon Valley Trail
without authorization from a ranger;
   (O)   Distribute or disseminate leaflets, pamphlets or other written or
printed material or use loudspeakers or other amplifying systems in the Cannon
Valley Trail except with authorization from a ranger; and/or
   (P)   Bring or allow a pet into or on the Cannon Valley Trail, except for
dogs brought on the trail by hunters while getting to or from hunting areas.
The hunting dog must be on a leash while on the trail.
(Prior Code, § 10.44, Subd. 3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 99.04 PROTECTION OF NATURAL RESOURCES.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Intentionally remove, alter, injure or destroy any tree, other plant,
rock, soil or mineral;
   (B)   Kill, trap, hunt or in any manner disturb or cause to be disturbed,
any species of wildlife;
   (C)   Discharge any missile or other projectile from a weapon upon, over or
across the boundaries of the Cannon Valley Trail;
   (D)   Possess any uncased and/or loaded weapon within the boundaries of the
Cannon Valley Trail; and/or
   (E)   Release or abandon on the Cannon Valley Trail any animal or introduce
any plant, chemical or other agent without authorization from a ranger.
(Prior Code, § 10.44, Subd. 4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 99.05 NO CAMPING.
   It is unlawful for any person to camp in or on the Cannon Valley Trail
except in areas provided and designated for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 10.44, Subd. 5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 99.06 HORSEBACK RIDING.
   It is unlawful for any person to ride, lead or allow a horse on the Cannon
Valley Trail.
(Prior Code, § 10.44, Subd. 6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 99.07 BICYCLING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle on any area of the
Cannon Valley Trail except on bikeways and roadways.
   (B)   Bicycles shall be operated as close to the right hand side of the
bikeways and roadways as conditions will permit.
(Prior Code, § 10.44, Subd. 7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 99.08 MOTORIZED RECREATION VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motorized recreation vehicle on
the Cannon Valley Trail.
(Prior Code, § 10.44, Subd. 8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 99.09 MEETINGS, SPEECHES, DEMONSTRATIONS AND PARADES.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons to conduct public meetings,
assemblies, worship services, entertainment, parades or demonstrations on the
Cannon Valley Trail without first obtaining a use permit from a ranger.
(Prior Code, § 10.44, Subd. 9) (Ord. 66, effective 1-17-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 99.10 VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except as herein provided, it is unlawful for any person to operate,
park or leave a vehicle standing on the Cannon Valley Trail.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to make it unlawful
for maintenance, police, fire or other emergency vehicles to operate, park or
leave a vehicle standing on the Cannon Valley Trail.
   (C)   The city may post signs stating that it is unlawful to operate, park
or leave a vehicle standing on the Cannon Valley Trail.
(Prior Code, § 10.44, Subd. 10) (Ord. 124, effective 3-13-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 99.11 PARK OPERATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to violate any provision of a use permit
granted by a ranger.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to use, without payment, any facility or
area for which a fee or charge has been established.
   (C)   Any part of the Cannon Valley Trail may be declared temporarily closed
to the public at any time or to certain uses, as the Board shall find
reasonably necessary.
   (D)   Rangers shall, in connection with their duties imposed by law,
diligently enforce the provisions of this chapter, and may issue citations of
arrest, arrest with or without warrant and eject from the Cannon Valley Trail
persons acting in violation of this chapter.
   (E)   Rangers shall have the authority to seize, confiscate and impound any
substance, plant, animal, vehicle or other article which upon probable cause
they find to be used or possessed in violation of this section.
   (F)   A ranger shall have the authority to revoke for good cause any special
permit. Any special permit or reservation may be revoked upon the violation by
the permittee of any ordinance, rule or regulation of the Cannon Valley Trail.
   (G)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent employees or agents of the
Cannon Valley Trail from performing their assigned duties.
   (H)   The Board shall have the right to issue the rules and regulations to
enhance or supplement this chapter.
   (I)   The trail shall be open from sunrise to 10:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 10.44, Subd. 11) (Ord. 66, effective 1-17-1986)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATION AND LICENSING
         
111.   ALCOHOL LICENSING AND REGULATION
         
112.   MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES, DANCES AND SHOWS
         
113.   TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND RELATED DEVICES
         
114.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
         
115.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE HAULERS
         
116.   KENNELS
         
117.   SALES OF CERTAIN TYPES
         
118.   SAUNA PARLORS
         
119.   MASSAGE PRACTITIONERS
         
120.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
         
121.   MOBILE FOOD UNITS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATION AND LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
    
110.02   Applications
   
110.03   Action on application, transfer, termination and duplicate license
   
110.04   Carrying or posting
   
110.05   Property owners
   
110.06   Responsibility of licensee
   
110.07   Conviction of crime; denial of license
   
110.08   Conditional licenses
   
110.09   License fees and compensation
   
110.10   Insurance requirements
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person making an application for a license under this title.
   APPLICATION. A form with blanks or spaces thereon, to be filled in and
completed by the applicant as his or her request for a license, furnished by
the city and uniformly required as a prerequisite to the consideration of the
issuance of a license for a business.
   BOND. A corporate surety document in the form and with the provisions
acceptable and specifically approved by the City Attorney.
   BUSINESS. Any activity, occupation, sale of goods or services or transaction
that is either licensed or regulated, or both licensed and regulated, by the
terms and conditions of this title.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes, for a fee, tip or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   LICENSE. A document issued by the city to an applicant permitting him or her
to carry on and transact a business.
   LICENSEE. An applicant who, pursuant to his or her application, holds a
valid, current, unexpired and unrevoked license from the city for carrying on a
business. In the case of a sexually oriented business license, a person in
whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented business has been issued,
as well as the individual listed as an applicant on the application for a
license.
   LICENSE FEE. The money paid to the city pursuant to an application and prior
to issuance of a license to transact and carry on a business.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity
or displays "specified anatomical areas" is provided to be observed, sketched,
drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by other persons
who pay money or any form of consideration.
   NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY.
      (1)   The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus, male genitals, female
genitals or female breast; or
      (2)   A state of dress which fails to opaquely cover a human buttock,
anus, male genitals, female genitals or areola of the female breast.
   SALE, SELL and SOLD. All forms of barter and all manner or means of
furnishing merchandise to persons.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region and areolae of the female breast, as well as portions of
the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or
invited wherein coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically
or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or
other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer
persons per machine at any one time and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BOOKSTORE or SEXUALLY ORIENTED VIDEO STORE. A commercial
establishment which as a principal business purpose offers for sale or rental
for any form of consideration any one or more of the following: books,
magazines, periodicals or other printed matter or photographs, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions, compact discs, computer
software, digital recordings, slides or other visual representations which
depict or describe "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas."
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. A sexually oriented arcade; sexually oriented
bookstore; sexually oriented video store; sexually oriented cabaret; sexually
oriented conversation/rap parlor; sexually oriented massage parlor; sexually
oriented motel; sexually oriented motion picture theater; sexually oriented
sauna; sexually oriented theater; escort agency; nude model studio; or sexual
encounter center; and other premises, enterprises, establishments, businesses
or places open to some or all members of the public, at or in which there is an
emphasis on the presentation, display, depiction or description of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" which are capable of being
seen by members of the public.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar
commercial establishment which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities;" or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, compact discs,
computer software, digital recordings or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED CONSERVATION/RAP PARLOR. A conversation/rap parlor which
excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of engaging in
or listening to conversation, talk or discussion between an employee of the
establishment and a customer, if the service is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas."
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED MASSAGE PARLOR. A massage parlor which excludes minors by
reason of age, or which provides for any form of consideration, the rubbing,
stroking, kneading, tapping or rolling of the body, if the service provided by
the massage parlor is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment
which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas;" and has a sign visible from the public right-
of-way which advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic
reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where,
for any form of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides
or similar photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are
characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas."
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED SAUNA. A sauna which excludes minors by reason of age, or
which provides for any form of consideration, a steam bath or heat bathing room
used for the purpose of bathing, relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam or hot
air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent, if the service provided by the
sauna is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar
commercial establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state
of nudity or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities."
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Either of the following:
      (1)   The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; or
      (2)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (3) above.
(Prior Code, § 6.01) (Ord. 188, effective 10-2-1998)
§ 110.02 APPLICATIONS.
   All applications shall be made as follows.
   (A)   All applications shall be made at the office of the City Administrator
upon forms that have been formulated by the city for those purposes.
   (B)   All applications must be subscribed, sworn to and include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Applicant's name and citizenship;
      (2)   Applicant's present address and length of time he or she has lived
at that address;
      (3)   Applicant's occupation and length of time so engaged;
      (4)   Applicant's addresses and occupations for the three years last
preceding the date of application;
      (5)   Names and addresses of applicant's employers, if any, for the three
years last preceding the date of application;
      (6)   Whether or not applicant has ever been convicted of a felony, gross
misdemeanor or misdemeanor, including violation of a municipal ordinance, but
excluding traffic violations, and if so, the date and place of conviction and
the nature of the offense;
      (7)   Type of license and location of premises for which application is
made;
      (8)   At least four character references if applicant has not resided in
the city for two years last preceding the date of application; and
      (9)   Other information as the Council shall deem necessary considering
the nature of the business for which license application is made.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any applicant to intentionally make a false
statement or omission upon any application form. Any false statement in the
application, or any willful omission to state any information called for on the
application form shall, upon discovery of the falsehood work an automatic
refusal of license, or if already issued, shall render any license or permit
issued pursuant thereto, void, and of no effect to protect the applicant from
prosecution for violation of this title or any part hereof.
   (D)   The City Administrator shall, upon receipt of each application
completed in accordance herewith, forthwith investigate the truth of statements
made therein and the moral character and business reputation of each applicant
for license to the extent as he or she deems necessary. For the investigation
the City Administrator may enlist the aid of the Chief of Police. The Council
shall not grant an application before the investigation has been completed.
   (E)   Applications for renewal licenses may be made in an abbreviated form
as the Council may by resolution adopt.
(Prior Code, § 6.02)
§ 110.03 ACTION ON APPLICATION, TRANSFER, TERMINATION AND DUPLICATE LICENSE.
   (A)   Granting. The Council may grant any application for the period of the
remainder of the then current calendar year or for the entire ensuing license
year. All applications, including proposed license periods, must be consistent
with this title.
   (B)   Issuing. If an application is approved, the City Administrator shall
forthwith issue a license pursuant thereto in the form prescribed by the
Council upon proof of ownership, payment of the appropriate license fee and
approval of the bond or insurance as to form and surety or carrier, if
required. All licenses shall be on a calendar year basis unless otherwise
specified herein as to particular businesses. Unless otherwise herein
specified, license fees shall be pro-rated on the basis of one-twelfth for each
calendar month or part thereof remaining in the then current license year.
Licenses shall be valid only at one location and on the premises therein
described.
   (C)   Transfer. No license shall be transferable between persons or to a
different location. It is unlawful to make any transfer in violation of this
division.
   (D)   Termination. Licenses shall terminate only by expiration or
revocation.
   (E)   Refusal and revocation. The Council may, for any reasonable cause,
refuse to grant any application or revoke any license. No license shall be
granted to a person of questionable moral character or business reputation.
Before revocation of any license, the Council shall give notice to the licensee
and grant the licensee opportunity to be heard. Notice to be given and the
exact time of hearing shall be stated in the resolution calling for the
hearing.
   (F)   Duplicate license. Duplicates of all original licenses may be issued
by the City Administrator, without action by the Council, upon licensee's
affidavit that the original has been lost, and upon payment of a fee of $2 for
issuance of the duplicate. All duplicate licenses shall be clearly marked
"DUPLICATE."
(Prior Code, § 6.03)
§ 110.04 CARRYING OR POSTING.
   (A)   All solicitors shall at all times when so engaged, carry their license
on their person. All other licensees shall post their licenses in their place
of business near the licensed activity. Provided, however, that in the case of
machine or other device licensing, the city may provide a sticker for the
current license year which shall be affixed to each machine or device requiring
the sticker.
   (B)   All licensees shall display their licenses upon demand by any officer
or citizen.
(Prior Code, § 6.04)
Cross-reference:
   Peddlers and solicitors, see
Chapter 114
§ 110.05 PROPERTY OWNERS.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly permit any real property owned or
controlled by him or her to be used, without a license, for any business for
which a license is required by this title.
(Prior Code, § 6.05)
§ 110.06 RESPONSIBILITY OF LICENSEE.
   The conduct of agents and employees of a person to whom a license or permit
is issued shall be deemed the conduct of the licensee himself or herself.
(Prior Code, § 6.06)
§ 110.07 CONVICTION OF CRIME; DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   A license may be denied to an applicant by the Council solely or in part due
to a prior conviction of a crime by an applicant only upon a finding that the
conviction directly relates to the occupation for which the license is sought,
and then only after considering evidence of rehabilitation and other evidence
as may be presented, all in accordance with the state statutes. Provided,
however, that an applicant must show his or her present fitness to perform the
occupation for which the license is sought.
(Prior Code, § 6.07)
§ 110.08 CONDITIONAL LICENSES.
   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, the Council may, upon
a finding of the necessity therefor, place conditions and restrictions upon a
license as it, in its discretion, may deem reasonable and justified.
(Prior Code, § 6.08)
§ 110.09 LICENSE FEES AND COMPENSATION.
License Fee
License                                                          Fee
Tobacco                                                          $75/year
Initial liquor application deposit                               $550
Off-sale beer                                                    $125/year
Off-sale liquor                                                  $200/year
Off-sale liquor (if compliant with M.S. § 340A-408, Subdivision $100/year
3)
On-sale club (beer)                                              $300/year
On-sale wine                                                     $750/year
On-sale liquor license                                           $2750/year
On-sale Sunday license                                           $200/year
Special on-sale 3.2 beer (temporary)                             $25/day
Refuse hauler                                                    $200/year
Initial massage therapy application deposit                      $100/year
Massage therapy                                                  $75/year
Street excavation                                                $150/year
                                                                 $400/year
Peddlers, canvassers, transient merchants (solicitor's license)  $100
                                                                 investigation
                                                                 fee/year
Compost site-commercial haulers                                  Fee
Stumps                                                           $10/each
Brush/logs                                                       $4/yard
Wood chips                                                       $2/yard
Grass/leaves                                                     $2/yard
Animal control                                                   Fee
Dog license, spayed/neutered                                     $10/year
Dog license, not spayed/neutered                                 $15/year
Penalty after June 1                                             $2
Duplicate license                                                $1
Assessment searches                                              $25/each
Burning permit                                                   $2
 
(Prior Code, § 6.09) (Res. 1892, passed 1-4-2011)
§ 110.10 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever insurance is required by a chapter of this title, after
approval by the Council, but before the license shall issue, the applicant
shall file with the City Administrator a policy or certificate of public
liability insurance showing:
      (1)   The limits are at least as high as required;
      (2)   The coverage is effective for at least the license term approved;
and
      (3)   The insurance will not be canceled or terminated without 30 days'
written notice served upon the City Administrator.
   (B)   Cancellation or termination of the coverage shall be grounds for
license revocation.
(Prior Code, § 6.10) (Ord. 40, effective 12-23-1983)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOL LICENSING AND REGULATION
Section
General Provisions
   
111.001   Definitions
Applications and Licenses; Procedure and Administration
   
111.015   Application
   
111.016   False statements
   
111.017   Investigation
   
111.018   Action
   
111.019   Duplicate licenses
   
111.020   Posting
   
111.021   Persons disqualified
Licensing and Conditions Generally
   
111.035   Delinquent taxes and charges
   
111.036   Conditional licenses
   
111.037   Premises licensed
   
111.038   Conduct on licensed premises
   
111.039   Sale by employee
   
111.040   License condition and unlawful act
   
111.041   Other unlawful acts
   
111.042   Spiking prohibited
   
111.043   Management
   
111.044   Corporate applicants and licensees
   
111.045   Limitation on ownership
   
111.046   Renewal of licenses
   
111.047   Financial responsibility of licensees
   
111.048   Insurance certificate requirements
   
111.049   Worker's compensation
   
111.050   Fixing license fees
Beer Licensing
   
111.065   Beer license required
   
111.066   Temporary beer license; conditions and fees
   
111.067   Beer license restrictions and regulations
   
111.068   Hours of sale
   
111.069   Beer sales to intoxicated persons
   
111.070   Unlawful acts
Brew Licensing
   
111.080   Brew-on premises store, unlawful acts
   
111.081   Brewer taproom on-sale license
   
111.082   Hours and days of brewer taproom on-sale license
   
111.083   Brewer taproom off-sale license
   
111.084   Hours and days of brewer taproom off-sale license
Liquor Licenses
   
111.085   Liquor license required
   
111.086   Hours and days of liquor sales
   
111.087   On-sale licenses
   
111.088   Liquor license restrictions and regulations
   
111.089   Number of liquor licenses restricted; standards
   
111.090   Temporary liquor license
   
111.091   Combination licenses
Clubs
   
111.105   Club license required
   
111.106   Sales limited to members and guests
   
111.107   Other club license restrictions and regulations
On-Sale Wine License
   
111.120   License required
   
111.121   Wine license restrictions
License Restrictions and Conditions of Operation
   
111.135   Gambling devices
   
111.136   Inspections
   
111.137   Refilled containers
   
111.138   Employment of felons
   
111.139   Employment of persons under 18 years of age
   
111.140   Selling or serving to intoxicated persons
   
111.141   Licensee responsibility
   
111.142   Loitering
   
111.143   Consumption and possession of alcoholic beverages on streets public
property and private parking lots to which the public has access
   
111.144   Alcoholic beverages in certain buildings and grounds
Outdoor Alcoholic Beverage Licenses Required for Outdoor Consumption
   
111.160   License required
   
111.161   Limitations on issuance of outdoor alcoholic beverage license
   
111.162   State statutes enforced within outdoor seating area
Minors; Unlawful Acts
   
111.175   Consumption
   
111.176   Purchasing
   
111.177   Possession
   
111.178   Entering licensed premises
   
111.179   Misrepresentation of age
   
111.180   Proof of age
Nudity or Obscenity Prohibited
   
111.195   Definitions
   
111.196   Unlawful act
Social Host
   
111.210   Definitions
   
111.211   Prohibited acts
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beverage containing more than one-half of 1% alcohol
by volume, including, but not limited to, beer, wine and liquor as defined in
this section.
   APPLICANT. Any person making an application for a license under this
chapter.
   APPLICATION. A form with blanks or spaces thereon, to be filled in and
completed by the applicant as his or her request for a license, furnished by
the city and uniformly required as a prerequisite to the consideration of the
issuance of a license for a business.
   BANQUET FACILITY. A RESTAURANT as defined in this section, in which the
primary purpose of the establishment is to provide room(s), food and beverages
for large groups and special events, such as weddings and parties, where a room
(s) within the establishment is reserved in advance.
   BEER. Malt liquor containing not less than one-half of 1% alcohol by volume
nor more than 3.2% alcohol by weight. (This definition includes so-called MALT
COOLERS with the alcoholic content limits stated therein.)
   BREW-ON-PREMISES STORE. A facility that provides the ingredients and
equipment for a customer to use to brew malt liquor (beer) at the store.
   BREWER. A person who manufactures malt liquor for sale and is licensed under
M.S. § 340A.301, subdivision 6, clause (c), (i), or (j).
   CLUB.
      (1)   An incorporated organization organized under the laws of the state
for civic, fraternal, social or business purposes, for intellectual
improvement, or for the promotion of sports, or a congressionally chartered
veterans' organization, which:
         (a)   Has more than 50 members;
         (b)   Has owned or rented a building or space in a building for more
than one year that is suitable and adequate for the accommodation of its
members; and
         (c)   Is directed by a board of directors, executive committee or
other similar body chosen by the members at a meeting held for that purpose.
      (2)   No member, officer, agent or employee shall receive any profit from
the distribution or sale of beverages to the members of the club, or their
guests, beyond a reasonable salary or wages fixed and voted each year by the
governing body.
   FARM WINERY. A winery operated by the owner of a Minnesota farm and
producing table or sparkling wines from grapes, grape juice, other fruit bases
or honey with a majority of the ingredients grown or produced in the state.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR and LIQUOR. Ethyl alcohol and distilled, fermented,
spirituous, vinous and malt beverages containing in excess of 3.2% of alcohol
by weight.
   LICENSE. A document, issued by the city, to an applicant permitting him or
her to carry on and transact the business stated therein.
   LICENSE FEE. The money paid to the city pursuant to an application and prior
to issuance of a license to transact and carry on the business stated therein.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The space or structure described in the issued license.
   LICENSEE. An applicant who, pursuant to his or her approved application,
holds a valid, current, unexpired license from the city for carrying on the
business stated therein.
   MANUFACTURER. Every person who, by any process of manufacture, fermenting,
brewing, distilling, refining, rectifying, blending or by the combination of
different materials, prepares or produces liquors, wine or beer for sale.
   MINOR. Any natural person who has not attained the age of 21 years.
   OFF-SALE. The retail sale of beer or liquor in original packages for
consumption off or away from the premises where sold.
   ON-SALE. The retail sale of beer, wine or liquor, by the glass or by the
drink, for consumption on the premises where sold only.
   PACKAGE and ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any container or receptacle holding liquor,
wine or beer, which container or receptacle is corked, capped or sealed by a
manufacturer or wholesaler.
   RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SERVICE TRAINING CENTER. A course dealing with state
laws regarding the sale and service of liquor, beer or wine, the course must
include an examination that demonstrates that the student has successfully
learned the basic facts and information relating to the safe and legal sale and
service of liquor, beer or wine.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises and served at tables to the general public, and having seating
capacity for at least 30 guests and banquet facilities.
   SALE, SELL and SOLD. All barters and all manners or means of furnishing
beer, wine or liquor to persons, including the furnishing in violation or
evasion of law.
   TRAINING VERIFICATION. The money paid to the city prior to the issuance of
and in connection with an application for a liquor or wine license for the sale
or service of liquor wine.
   WHOLESALER. Any person engaged in the business of selling liquor, wine or
beer to retail dealers.
   WINE. A beverage made without rectification or fortification by the
fermentation of sound ripe grapes, grape juice, other fruits or honey, and also
carbonated wine, wine made from condensed grape mush, wine made from other
agricultural products, imitation wine, compounds sold as wine, vermouth, cider,
perry and sake, containing not less than one-half of 1% nor more than 14%
alcohol by volume. (This definition includes so-called WINE COOLERS with the
alcoholic content limits stated therein.)
(Prior Code, § 5.01) (Ord. 6, effective 7-3-1981; Ord. 68, effective 1-24-1986;
Ord. 167, effective 12-29-1995; Ord. 214, effective 9-27-2001; Ord. 240,
effective 7-8-2004; Ord. 338, passed 7-1-2014; Ord. 344, passed 2-9-2016)
APPLICATIONS AND LICENSES; PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 111.015 APPLICATION.
   All applications shall be made at the office of the City Administrator upon
forms prescribed by the proper agency of the state together with additional
information as the Council may desire. A training verification form shall be
filed with the application at the office of the City Administrator wherein the
applicant verifies that all sellers or servers of liquor, beer or wine upon the
licensed premises have successfully completed a responsible beverage service
training course within the preceding 12 months and declare that all new sellers
or servers will complete the training before beginning to sell or serve liquor,
beer or wine. All questions or information required by the application forms
shall be answered fully and completely by the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 5.02, Subd. 1)
§ 111.016 FALSE STATEMENTS.
   It is unlawful for any applicant to intentionally make a false statement or
omission upon any application form. Any false statement in the application, or
any willful omission to state any information called for on the application
form shall, upon discovery of the falsehood, work an automatic refusal of
license, or if already issued, shall render any license issued pursuant thereto
void and of no effect to protect the applicant from prosecution for violation
of this chapter, or any part hereof.
(Prior Code, § 5.02, Subd. 2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.017 INVESTIGATION.
   An initial application for an on-sale or off-sale liquor or on-sale wine
license shall be accompanied, by a deposit of $550 to apply toward the expense
of investigation. Upon receipt of the application and deposit, the city shall
cause an investigation of the applicant to be made. A time and expense record
shall be kept. Time shall be charged at a rate to be set by the Council and
uniformly enforced. If, during the course of investigation, the initial deposit
toward the cost of investigation shall have been expended without completion,
the investigation shall cease until an additional deposit of $550 has been
made.
(Prior Code, § 5.02, Subd. 3) (Ord. 101, effective 5-19-1989)
§ 111.018 ACTION.
   (A)   Granting. The Council may approve any application for the period of
the remainder of the then current license year or for the entire ensuing
license year. All applications including proposed license periods must be
consistent with this chapter.
   (B)   Issuing. If an application is approved, the City Administrator shall
forthwith issue a license pursuant thereto in the form, prescribed by the city
or the proper agency of the state, as the case may be and upon payment of the
license fee. All licenses shall be on a calendar year basis unless otherwise
specified herein. For licenses issued and which are to become effective other
than on the first day of the licensed year, the fee to be paid with the
application shall be a pro rated share of the annual license fee. Licenses
shall be valid only at one location and on the premises therein described.
   (C)   Transfer. No license shall be transferable to a different location or
between persons.
   (D)   Refusal and termination. The Council may, in its sole discretion and
for any reasonable cause, refuse to grant any application. No license shall be
granted to a person of questionable moral character or business reputation.
Licenses shall terminate only by expiration or revocation.
   (E)   Revocation or suspension of liquor licenses.
      (1)   Grounds for revocation. The Council may suspend or revoke any
license for the sale of intoxicating liquor or beer for any of the following
reasons:
         (a)   False or misleading statements made on a license application or
renewal, or failure to abide by the commitments, promises or representations
made to the Council;
         (b)   Violation of any special conditions under which the license was
granted, including, but not limited to, the timely payment of real estate taxes
and all other city charges;
         (c)   Violation of any state or federal law, or city ordinances
regulating the sale of intoxicating liquor or controlled substances;
         (d)   Creation of a nuisance on the premises or in the surrounding
area;
         (e)   The licensee suffered or permitted illegal acts upon the
licensed premises or on property owned or controlled by the licensee adjacent
to the licensed premises, unrelated to the sale of beer, wine or liquor; and
         (f)   The licensee had knowledge of illegal acts upon or attributable
to the licensed premises, but failed to report the same to the police.
      (2)   Inactive license. The Council may revoke the intoxicating liquor or
beer license of any establishment granted a license that is not under
construction and exhibiting satisfactory progress toward completion within six
months from its issuance, or any establishment that ceases operation for a
period of six months. A hearing shall be held to determine what progress has
been made toward opening or reopening the establishment and, if satisfactory
progress is not demonstrated, the Council may revoke the license.
      (3)   Hearing; notice. Revocation or suspension of a license by the
Council shall be preceded by a public hearing conducted in accordance with M.S.
§§ 14.57 to 14.69, as they may be amended from time to time. The Council may
appoint a hearing examiner or may conduct a hearing itself. The hearing notice
shall be given at least ten days prior to the hearing, include notice of the
time and place of the hearing, and shall state the nature of the charges
against the licensee.
      (4)   Costs. Once a notice of intent to revoke or suspend a license has
been mailed, the licensee becomes responsible for any reasonable costs of
investigation, administration and hearings associated with the action as a
condition to reinstatement, termination or suspension or dismissal prior to
hearing.
      (5)   Presumptive civil penalties.
         (a)   Purpose. The purpose of this division is to establish a standard
by which the Council determines the length of license suspensions and the
propriety of revocations, and shall apply to all on-sale and off-sale licensed
premises. These penalties are presumed to be appropriate for every case;
however, the Council may deviate in an individual case where the Council finds
that there exist substantial reasons making it more appropriate to deviate.
When deviating from these standards, the Council must provide written findings
that support the penalty selected.
         (b)   Presumptive penalties for violations. Penalties for convictions
or violations must be presumed as follows (unless specified, numbers below
indicate consecutive days' suspension) The Council may in its discretion impose
a civil fine of $500 in lieu of a suspension on the first appearance.
Appearance
Type of Violation First Second Third Fourth
Appearance
Type of Violation                       First      Second Third      Fourth
After hours display or consumption of   2          4      12         Revocation
alcoholic beverages
After hours sale of alcoholic beverages
or sale or service of liquor or wine
upon licensed premises by a person who
has not successfully completed a
responsible beverage service training   3          6      18         Revocation
course within the preceding 12 months
with proof thereof on file in the
Office of the City Administrator or as
can be verified by on-line access
provided to the Chief of Police
Commission of a felony related to the   Revocation NA     NA         NA
licensed activity
Failure to make application for license
renewal prior to license expiration     3          6      18         Revocation
date
Failure to take reasonable steps to
stop person from leaving premises with  2          4      12         Revocation
alcoholic beverages
Illegal gambling on premises            3          6      18         Revocation
Refusal to allow city inspectors or     5          15     Revocation NA
police admission to inspect premises
Sale of alcoholic beverages to          3          6      18         Revocation
obviously intoxicated person
Sale of alcoholic beverages to underage 3          6      18         Revocation
person
Sale of alcoholic beverages while       Revocation NA     NA         NA
license is under suspension
Sale of intoxicating liquor where only  3          6      18         Revocation
license is for nonintoxicating liquor
 
         (c)   Multiple violations. At a licensee's first appearance before the
Council, the Council must act upon all of the violations that have been alleged
in the notice sent to the licensee. The Council in that case must consider the
presumptive penalty for each violation under the first appearance column in the
table above. The occurrence of multiple violations is grounds for deviation
from the presumed penalties in the Council's discretion.
         (d)   Subsequent violations. Violations occurring after the notice of
hearing has been mailed, but prior to the hearing, must be treated as a
separate violation and dealt with as a second appearance before the Council,
unless the City Administrator and licensee agree in writing to add the
violation to the first appearance. The same procedure applies to a second,
third or fourth appearance before the Council.
         (e)   Subsequent appearances. Upon a second, third or fourth
appearance before the Council by the same licensee, the Council must impose the
presumptive penalty for the violation or violations giving rise to the
subsequent appearance without regard to the particular violation or violations
that were the subject of the first or prior appearance. However, the Council
may consider the amount of time elapsed between appearances as a basis for
deviating from the presumptive penalty imposed by this division.
         (f)   Computation of appearances. After the first appearance, a
subsequent appearance by the same licensee will be determined as follows.
            1.   If the first appearance was within 18 months of the current
violation, the current appearance will be treated as a second appearance.
            2.   If a licensee has appeared before the Council on two previous
occasions, and the current violation occurred within 30 months of the first
appearance, the current appearance will be treated as a third appearance.
            3.   If a licensee has appeared before the Council on three
previous occasions, and the current violation occurred within 48 months of the
first appearance, the current appearance will be treated as a fourth
appearance.
            4.   Any appearance not covered by division (E)(5)(f)1., (E)(5)
(f)2. or (E)(5)(f)3. above will be treated as a first appearance.
         (g)   Other penalties. Nothing in this division (E)(5) shall restrict
or limit the authority of the Council to suspend up to 60 days, revoke the
license or impose a civil fine not to exceed $2,000 to impose conditions or
take any other action in accordance with law; provided, that the license holder
has been afforded an opportunity for a hearing in the manner provided for in a
hearing notice as in division (E)(3) above.
   (F)   On-sale liquor license refund in certain cases. In the event that,
during the license year, on-sale liquor licensed premises shall be destroyed or
so damaged by fire, or otherwise, that the licensee shall cease to carry on the
licensed business, or in case the business of the licensee shall cease by
reason of his or her illness or death, or if it shall become unlawful for the
licensee to carry on the licensed business under his or her license, except
when the license is revoked, the city shall, upon the happening of any event,
refund to the licensee or to his or her estate, the part of the license fee
paid by him or her as corresponds to the time the license had yet to run. In
the event of death of the licensee, his or her personal representative is
hereby authorized to continue operation of the business for not more than 90
days after the death of the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 5.02, Subd. 4) (Ord. 6, effective 7-3-1981; Ord. 194, effective
11-27-1999)
§ 111.019 DUPLICATE LICENSES.
   Duplicates of all original licenses may be issued by the City Administrator,
without action by the Council, upon licensee's affidavit that the original has
been lost, and upon payment of a fee of $2 for issuance of the duplicate. All
duplicate licenses shall be clearly marked "DUPLICATE."
(Prior Code, § 5.02, Subd. 5)
§ 111.020 POSTING.
   All licensees shall conspicuously post their licenses in their places of
business.
(Prior Code, § 5.02, Subd. 6)
§ 111.021 PERSONS DISQUALIFIED.
   (A)   No license under this chapter may be issued or renewed to:
      (1)   A person who within five years of the license application has been
convicted of any felony or a willful violation of a federal or state law, or
local ordinance governing the manufacture, sale, distribution or possession for
sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages;
      (2)   A person who has had an alcoholic beverage license revoked within
five years of the license application, or to any person who at the time of the
violation owns any interest, whether as a holder of more than 5% of the capital
stock of a corporate licensee, as a partner or otherwise, in the premises or in
the business conducted thereon, or to a corporation, partnership, association,
enterprise, business or firm in which any person is in any manner interested;
      (3)   A person under the age of 21 years; or
      (4)   A person not of good moral character and repute.
   (B)   No person holding a license from the Commissioner as a manufacturer,
brewer (except as provided by statute), wholesaler or importer may have a
direct or indirect interest, in whole or in part, in a business holding an
alcoholic beverage license from the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.02, Subd. 7) (Ord. 167, effective 12-29-1995)
LICENSING AND CONDITIONS GENERALLY
§ 111.035 DELINQUENT TAXES AND CHARGES.
   No license shall be granted for operation on any premises on which taxes,
assessments or installments thereof, or other financial claims of the city, are
owed and are delinquent and unpaid.
(Prior Code, § 5.03) (Ord. 25, effective 12-10-1982)
§ 111.036 CONDITIONAL LICENSES.
   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, the Council may, upon
a finding of the necessity therefor, place conditions and restrictions upon a
license as it, in its discretion, may deem reasonable and justified.
(Prior Code, § 5.04)
§ 111.037 PREMISES LICENSED.
   A license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be valid only
for the premises described in the license, and all transactions relating to a
sale under the license must take place within the space or structure.
(Prior Code, § 5.05) (Ord. 167, effective 12-29-1995)
§ 111.038 CONDUCT ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   Except as herein provided, every licensee under this chapter shall be
responsible for the conduct of his or her place of business and shall maintain
conditions of sobriety and order therein.
(Prior Code, § 5.06)
§ 111.039 SALE BY EMPLOYEE.
   Any sale of beer, wine or liquor in or from any premises licensed under this
chapter by any employee authorized to make a sale in or from the place is the
act of the employer as well as of the person actually making the sale; and
every employer is liable to all of the penalties provided by law for the sale,
equally with the person actually making the sale.
(Prior Code, § 5.07)
§ 111.040 LICENSE CONDITION AND UNLAWFUL ACT.
   (A)   All premises licensed under this chapter shall at all times be open to
inspection by any police officer, in accordance with §
10.20, to determine whether or not this chapter and all other laws are being
observed. All persons, as a condition to being issued the license, consent to
the inspection by the officers and without a warrant for searches or seizures.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee, or agent or employee of a licensee,
to hinder or prevent a police officer from making an inspection.
(Prior Code, § 5.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.041 OTHER UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   Consumption. It is unlawful for any person to consume, or any licensee
to permit consumption of beer, wine or liquor on licensed premises more than 30
minutes after the hour when a sale thereof can legally be made.
   (B)   Removal of containers.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any on-sale licensee to permit any glass, bottle
or other container containing beer, wine or liquor in any quantity, to remain
upon any table, bar, stool or other place where customers are served, more than
30 minutes after the hour when a sale thereof can legally be made.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any on-sale licensee to permit any glass, bottle
or other container, containing beer, wine or liquor in any quantity, to be
removed from the licensed premises by any person.
   (C)   Closing. It is unlawful for any person, other than an on-sale
licensee's bona fide employee actually engaged in the performance of his or her
duties to be on premises licensed under this chapter more than 30 minutes after
the legal time for making licensed sales.
(Prior Code, § 5.09) (Ord. 6, effective 7-3-1981; Ord. 210, effective 10-20-
2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.042 SPIKING PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to mix or prepare liquor for consumption in
any restaurant or other similar establishment selling or serving beer or soft
drinks, except an on-sale liquor licensee. It is also unlawful for any owner or
operator, or the agent or employee of an owner or operator to sell or serve
beer or soft drinks for the purpose of mixing the same with liquor.
(Prior Code, § 5.10) (Ord. 6, effective 7-3-1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.043 MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Manager.
      (1)   Before a license is issued under this chapter to an individual who
is a nonresident of the city, to more than one individual whether or not they
are residents of the city or to a corporation, partnership or association, the
applicant or applicants shall appoint in writing a natural person who is a
resident of the city as its manager or agent. The resident manager or agent
shall, by the terms of his or her written consent:
         (a)   Take full responsibility for the conduct of the licensed
premises; and
         (b)   Serve as agent for service of notices and other process relating
to the license.
      (2)   The manager or agent must be a person who, by reason of age,
character, reputation and other attributes, could qualify individually as a
licensee. If the manager or agent ceases to be a resident of the city or ceases
to act in that capacity for the licensee without appointment of a successor,
the license issued pursuant to the appointment shall be subject to revocation
or suspension.
   (B)   Person in charge. It is unlawful for any on-sale licensee to be absent
from the licensed premises during a time when the premises are open for
business unless a manager or other person is in charge thereof and responsible
for proper conduct thereon. The manager or person in charge need not be the
same as that designated under division (A) above of this section, but must be a
person who, by reason of age, character, reputation and other attributes, could
qualify as a licensee.
(Prior Code, § 5.11) (Ord. 107, effective 1-5-1990)
§ 111.044 CORPORATE APPLICANTS AND LICENSEES.
   A corporate applicant, at the time of application, shall furnish the city
with a list of all persons that have an interest in the corporation and the
extent of the interest. The list shall name all shareholders and show the
number of shares held by each, either individually or beneficially for others.
It is the duty of each corporate licensee to notify the City Administrator of
any change in legal ownership, or beneficial interest in the corporation or in
shares. Any change in the ownership or beneficial interest in the shares
entitled to be voted at a meeting of the shareholders of a corporate licensee,
which results in the change of voting control of the corporation by the persons
owning the shares therein, shall be deemed equivalent to a transfer of the
license issued to the corporation, and any license shall be revoked 30 days
after any change in ownership or beneficial interest of shares unless the
Council has been notified of the change in writing and has approved it by
appropriate action. The Council, or any officer of the city designated by it,
may at any reasonable time examine the stock transfer records and minute books
of any corporate licensee in order to verify and identify the shareholders, and
the Council or its designated officer may examine the business records of any
other licensee to the extent necessary to disclose the interest which persons
other than the licensee have in the licensed business. The Council may revoke
any license issued upon its determination that a change of ownership of shares
in a corporate licensee or any change of ownership of any interest in the
business of any other licensee has actually resulted in the change of control
of the licensed business so as materially to affect the integrity and character
of its management and its operation, but no action shall be taken until after a
hearing by the Council on notice to the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 5.12)
§ 111.045 LIMITATION ON OWNERSHIP.
   No person shall be granted beer, liquor or wine licenses at more than one
location. For the purpose of this section, any person owning an interest of 5%
or more, of the entity to which the license is issued, or the ownership by a
member of his or her immediate family, shall be deemed to be a licensee.
(Prior Code, § 5.13)
§ 111.046 RENEWAL OF LICENSES.
   Applications for renewal of all licenses under this chapter shall be made at
least 60 days prior to the date of expiration of the license, and shall contain
information as is required by the city. This time requirement may be waived by
the Council for good and sufficient cause.
(Prior Code, § 5.14) (Ord. 6, effective 7-3-1981)
§ 111.047 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OF LICENSEES.
   (A)   Proof. No beer, wine or liquor license shall be issued or renewed
unless and until the applicant has provided proof of financial responsibility
by filing with the city a certificate that there is in effect an insurance
policy or pool, or bond of a surety company authorized to transact business in
the state providing minimum coverages of:
      (1)   $50,000 because of bodily injury to any one person in any one
occurrence;
      (2)   $100,000 because of bodily injury to two or more persons in any one
occurrence;
      (3)   $10,000 because of injury to or destruction of property of others
in any one occurrence;
      (4)   $50,000 for loss of means of support of any one person in any one
occurrence; and
      (5)   $100,000 for loss of means of support of two or more persons in any
one occurrence.
   (B)   Exception. This section does not apply to on-sale beer licensees with
sales of beer of less than $25,000 for the preceding year, nor to off-sale beer
licensees with sales of beer of less than $50,000 for the preceding year, nor
does it apply to holders of on-sale wine licenses with sales of wine of less
than $25,000 for the preceding year. An affidavit of the licensee shall be
required to establish the exemption under this division.
   (C)   Documents submitted to Commissioner. All proofs of financial
responsibility and exemption affidavits filed with the city under this section
shall be submitted by the city to the State Commissioner of Public Safety.
(Prior Code, § 5.16) (Ord. 143, effective 1-14-1994; Ord. 181, effective 2-20-
1998)
§ 111.048 INSURANCE CERTIFICATE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All applicants for any type of intoxicating liquor, 3.2% malt liquor,
or wine license, must, as a condition to the issuance of the license,
demonstrate proof of financial responsibility with regard to liability imposed
by M.S. § 340A.801 to the city. This section does not apply to 3.2% malt liquor
licensees who, by affidavit, establish that they had sales of less than $25,000
of 3.2% malt liquor for the preceding year, or off-sale 3.2% malt liquor
licensees with sales of less than $50,000 of 3.2% malt liquor for the preceding
year, or to holders of on-sale wine licenses with sales of less than $25,000 of
wine for the preceding year. Proof of financial responsibility may be given by
filing one of the following:
      (1)   A certificate that there is in effect for the period of the license
an insurance policy or pool providing the following minimum coverage:
         (a)   Three hundred thousand dollars because of bodily injury to one
or more persons in any one occurrence and in the amount of $300,000 because of
injury to or destruction of property of others in any one occurrence;
         (b)   Three hundred thousand dollars for loss of means of support of
one or more persons in any one occurrence; or
      (2)   A bond of a surety company with the minimum coverage as provided in
subsection (1) of this section; or
      (3)   A certificate of the State Treasurer that the licensee has
deposited with him or her $300,000 in cash or securities which may legally be
purchased by savings banks or for trust funds having a market value of
$300,000.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter regarding
suspension of licenses, if the insurance or other evidence of financial
responsibility lapses during the term of any on-sale licenses issued under this
chapter, then such lapse shall act as an automatic suspension of the license.
Notice of cancellation of liquor liability insurance or other evidence of
financial responsibility shall serve as notice to the licensee of the impending
suspension. If evidence of compliance with the financial responsibility
requirement is not presented to the City Clerk or other licensing authority
before termination is effective, the license shall be deemed suspended
immediately upon lapse.
(Prior Code, § 5.17) (Ord. 39, effective 12-23-1983)
§ 111.049 WORKER'S COMPENSATION.
   No license to operate a business shall be issued by the city until the
applicant presents acceptable evidence of compliance with the worker's
compensation insurance coverage requirement of state statutes by providing the
name of the insurance company, the policy number and dates of coverage or the
permit to self-insure.
(Prior Code, § 5.19) (Ord. 107, effective 1-5-1990)
§ 111.050 FIXING LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise specifically provided, all fees for licenses
provided for in this chapter, including, but not by way of limitation, license
fees, investigation and administration fees, and training verification fees,
shall be fixed and determined by the Council, adopted by resolution and
uniformly enforced.
   (B)   The fees may, from time to time, be amended by the Council by
resolution.
   (C)   A copy of the resolution shall be kept on file in the office of the
City Administrator and open to inspection during regular business hours.
   (D)   For the purpose of fixing fees, the Council may categorize and
classify, provided, that the categorization and classification shall be
included in the resolution authorized by this section.
(Prior Code, § 5.19.1) (Ord. 128, effective 6-5-1992)
BEER LICENSING
§ 111.065 BEER LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell, or keep or offer for on-sale or off-
sale, any beer without a license therefor from the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.066 TEMPORARY BEER LICENSE; CONDITIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Applicant. A club or charitable, religious or nonprofit organization
shall qualify for a temporary on-sale beer license. The license may authorize
the sale of beer in any school or school building.
   (B)   Conditions.
      (1)   An application for a temporary license shall state the exact dates
and place of proposed temporary sale.
      (2)   No applicant shall qualify for a temporary license for more than a
total of seven days in any calendar year.
      (3)   If the premises proposed to be licensed are city-owned property,
the Council may, as a condition to issuance of the license, require insurance
coverage.
      (4)   The applicant shall comply with all other restrictions, limitations
and regulations for the sale of beer under the city code and statutes,
including mandatory seller and server training requirements.
   (C)   Fees. The fee for a temporary on-sale beer license shall be $25 per
day.
(Prior Code, § 5.22) (Ord. 68, effective 1-24-1986)
§ 111.067 BEER LICENSE RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No beer licensee shall, during the effective period of the license, be
the owner or holder of a federal retail liquor dealer's tax stamp for the sale
of intoxicating liquor, and ownership or holding thereof shall be grounds for
revocation.
   (B)   No license shall be granted to a manufacturer of beer or to anyone
holding a financial interest in the manufacture.
   (C)   Except as herein otherwise provided, every licensee shall be
responsible for the conduct of his or her place of business and shall maintain
conditions of sobriety and order.
   (D)   No person who has not attained the age of 18 years shall be employed
to sell or serve beer in any on-sale establishment.
   (E)   Licenses shall be granted only to bona fide clubs, beer stores, drug
stores, restaurants and hotels where food is prepared and served for
consumption on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 5.23) (Ord. 80, effective 4-3-1987)
§ 111.068 HOURS OF SALE.
   No sale of 3.2% malt liquor may be made between 12:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on
the days of Sunday through Thursday, except that on July 3, the Wednesday
before Thanksgiving and on New Years Eve sales are permitted until 2:00 a.m. No
sale of 3.2% malt liquor may be made between 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the
days of Friday and Saturday. No licensee may sell 3.2% malt liquor between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. unless the licensee has obtained a permit from
the state pursuant to the provisions of M.S. § 340A.504, Subd. 7.
(Prior Code, § 5.24) (Ord. 249, passed 5-19-2005; Ord. 306, passed 12-7-2010;
Ord. 319, passed 6-19-2012; Ord. 377, passed 6-1-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.069 BEER SALES TO INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   It is unlawful to sell beer to a person who is in an intoxicated condition
or to an habitual drunkard.
(Prior Code, § 5.26) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.070 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It is unlawful for:
   (A)   Any person to knowingly induce another to make an illegal sale or
purchase of beer;
   (B)   Any licensee to sell beer on any day, or during any hour, when the
sales are not permitted by the city code;
   (C)   Any licensee to allow consumption of beer on licensed premises on any
day, or during any hour, when sales of beer are not permitted by the city code;
   (D)   Any person to purchase or consume beer on licensed premises on any
day, or during any hour, when sales of beer are not permitted by the city code;
and/or
   (E)   Any license to allow persons to sell or serve liquor or wine on the
licensed premises who have not first successfully completed a responsible
beverage service training course and have filed proof thereof in the office of
the City Administrator or as can be verified by on-line access provided to the
Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 5.27) Penalty, see §
10.99
BREW LICENSING
§ 111.080 BREW-ON PREMISES STORE, UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   The following are unlawful acts for a brew-on premises store:
   (A)   To sell or otherwise provide alcoholic beverages to customers of a
brew-on-premises store unless the owner of the brew-on-premises store holds an
appropriate liquor license;
   (B)   For a customer to re-sell malt liquor (beer) brewed in a brew-on-
premises store or use it for any purpose other than personal use; and
   (C)   For a minor to be a customer of a brew-on-premises store.
(Prior Code, § 5.47) (Ord. 167, effective 12-29-1995; Ord. 344, passed 2-9-
2016)
§ 111.081 BREWER TAPROOM ON-SALE LICENSE.
   A brewer taproom on-sale license authorizes on-sale of malt liquor produced
by the brewer for consumption on the premises of or adjacent to one brewery
location owned by the brewer.
(Ord. 344, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 111.082 HOURS AND DAYS OF BREWER TAPROOM ON-SALE LICENSE.
   No sale of malt liquor may be made between 12:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the
days of Sunday through Thursday, except that on the Wednesday before
Thanksgiving and on New Year’s Eve sales are permitted until 2:00 a.m. No sale
of malt liquor may be made between 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the days of
Friday and Saturday. No licensee may sell malt liquor between the hours of 1:00
a.m. and 2:00 a.m. unless the licensee has obtained a permit from the state
pursuant to the provisions of M.S. § 340A.504, Subd.7, as it may be amended
from time to time.
(Ord. 344, passed 2-9-2016; Ord. 377, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 111.083 BREWER TAPROOM OFF-SALE LICENSE.
   A brewery taproom off-sale license authorizes retail off-sale of malt liquor
produced by the brewer as provided by M.S. § 340.28.
(Ord. 344, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 111.084 HOURS AND DAYS OF BREWER TAPROOM OFF-SALE LICENSE.
   No sale of malt liquor shall be made by a taproom off-sale licensee before
8:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m. on Monday through Saturday; or before 8:00 a.m.
or after 10:00 p.m. on Sunday. No sales shall be made on Thanksgiving Day;
after 8:00 p.m. on Christmas Eve, December 24; or on Christmas Day, December
25.
(Ord. 344, passed 2-9-2016; Ord. 377, passed 6-1-2021)
LIQUOR LICENSES
§ 111.085 LIQUOR LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, or keep or offer for sale, any
liquor without a license therefor from the city.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Possession or handling for sale or otherwise of sacramental wine or
any representative of any religious order or for use in connection with a
legitimate religious ceremony;
      (2)   Potable liquors as are prescribed by licensed physicians and
dentists for therapeutic purposes;
      (3)   Industrial alcohol and its components not prepared or used for
beverage purposes;
      (4)   Wine in the possession of a person duly licensed under this chapter
as an on-sale wine licensee; or
      (5)   Sales by manufacturers to wholesalers duly licensed as by the state
and to sales by wholesalers to persons holding on-sale licenses from the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.40) (Ord. 107, effective 1-5-1990)
§ 111.086 HOURS AND DAYS OF LIQUOR SALES.
   No sale of intoxicating liquor may be made between 12:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
on the days of Sunday through Thursday, except that on July 3, the Wednesday
before Thanksgiving and on New Years Eve sales are permitted until 2:00 a.m. No
sale of intoxicating liquor may be made between 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the
days of Friday and Saturday. No licensee may sell intoxicating liquor between
the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. unless the licensee has obtained a permit
from the state pursuant to the provisions of M.S. § 340A.504, subd. 7.
(Prior Code, § 5.41) (Ord. 249, passed 5-19-2005; Ord. 306, passed 12-7-2010;
Ord. 319, passed 6-19-2012; Ord. 377, passed 6-1-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.087 ON-SALE LICENSES.
   The electorate of the city, having heretofore authorized the same, an on-
sale liquor license and/or a special Sunday on-sale liquor license may be
issued to hotels and restaurants as herein defined.
(Prior Code, § 5.43) (Ord. 87, effective 6-10-1988)
Editor's note:
   This section was amended by Ordinance 87 while the city owned on-sale liquor
facilities
§ 111.088 LIQUOR LICENSE RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No license shall be granted to a wholesaler or manufacturer of liquor,
or to anyone holding a financial interest in the manufacture or wholesaling.
   (B)   No license shall be effective until a permit shall be issued to a
licensee under the laws of the United States, if the permit be required under
those laws or the state.
   (C)   Every license shall be granted subject to the provisions of this
chapter and all other applicable provisions of the city code and other laws
relating to the operation of the licensed business.
   (D)   No licensee shall display liquor to the public during hours when the
sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   No license shall be granted for any building within 300 feet of any
public elementary or secondary school structure or within 100 feet of any
church structure.
   (F)   No licensee under this section shall be issued an on-sale or off-sale
beer license, nor shall the licensee be permitted to sell beer.
(Prior Code, § 5.44) (Ord. 6, effective 7-3-1981; Ord. 25, effective 12-10-
1982)
§ 111.089 NUMBER OF LIQUOR LICENSES RESTRICTED; STANDARDS.
   (A)   Findings. The Council finds that certain standards should be placed on
issuance of future licenses for the protection of the health, safety, morals
and general welfare of the city.
   (B)   License standards. Each off-sale liquor licensee shall have one off-
street vehicular parking space for each 200 square feet of retail service area
within the proposed off-sale liquor establishment with ten parking spaces as
the minimum required. No off-sale licensee shall be permitted to locate his or
her off-sale liquor establishment within the same premises as occupied by an
on-sale licensee unless the licensee has been issued a combination license by
the city.
   (C)   Present licenses. When an on-sale liquor license on premises licensed
on the effective date of this division is allowed to expire, either:
      (1)   Without a successor in interest to a licensed premises having duly
and timely filed (prior to the expiration) an application for a license
describing the premises; or
      (2)   Without the then-present licensee having duly and timely (as
provided in the city code) filed an application for a renewal license, then,
any subsequent application for an on-sale liquor license on the same premises
shall be an application for an initial license subject to division (D) below of
this section.
   (D)   Future licenses; standards. After the effective date of this division,
no initial licenses shall be issued for the on-sale of liquor unless the
following standards are met and thereafter continuously and strictly observed.
      (1)   The premises, proposed to be licensed and the operation thereof,
are a restaurant as defined in §
111.001.
      (2)   The premises must comply with all provisions of the city code,
including, but not limited to, all building and zoning provisions.
      (3)   The licensed restaurant shall serve food on all days when on-sale
liquor is sold/served. The licensed restaurant must also be licensed as a
medium establishment or large food and beverage establishment by the Minnesota
Department of Health or Minnesota Department of Agriculture with oversight and
control of the licensee restaurant.
      (4)   The licensee shall provide kitchen facilities separated from the
dining facilities; the kitchen shall be equipped with refrigeration, food
preparation and dishwashing facilities capable of performing all services on
the licensed premises.
      (5)   Failure on the part of any licensee to whom this division applies,
to continuously and strictly comply with these standards during the term of any
initial or renewal license on the same premises shall be grounds for
revocation.
(Prior Code, § 5.45) (Ord. 64, effective 1-3-1986; Ord. 101, effective 5-19-
1989; Ord. 144, effective 1-14-1994; Ord. 197, effective 12-4-1998; Ord. 282,
passed 6-5-2008; Ord. 301, passed 1-5-2010; Ord. 338, passed 7-1-2014; Ord.
352, passed 5-2-2017; Ord. 360, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 111.090 TEMPORARY LIQUOR LICENSE.
   (A)   License authorized.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any provision of the city code to the contrary, the
Council may issue a license for the temporary on-sale of liquor in connection
with a social event sponsored by the licensee.
      (2)   The license may provide that the licensee may contract with the
holder of a full-year on-sale license, issued by the city, for liquor catering
services.
   (B)   Applicant. The applicant for a license under this section must be a
club or charitable, religious or other nonprofit organization in existence for
at least three years, or a political committee registered under M.S. § 10A.14,
as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Terms and conditions of license.
      (1)   No license is valid until approved by the Commissioner.
      (2)   No license shall be issued for more than four consecutive days.
      (3)   All licenses and licensees are subject to all provisions of
statutes and the city code relating to liquor sale and licensing, including
mandatory seller and server training requirements, except those relating to
financial responsibility and insurance, and except those which by their nature
are not applicable.
      (4)   Licenses may authorize sales on premises other than those owned or
permanently occupied by the licensee.
      (5)   No more than 3 four-day, 4 three-day or 6 two-day licenses in any
combination not to exceed 12 days per year may be issued to any one
organization or registered political committee, or for any one location within
a 12-month period.
      (6)   No more than one temporary license may be issued to any one
organization or registered political committee or for any one location within
any 30-day period.
(Prior Code, § 5.46) (Ord. 167, effective 12-29-1995; Ord. 181, effective 2-20-
1998)
§ 111.091 COMBINATION LICENSES.
   The city may issue a combination off-sale and on-sale intoxicating license
to the same licensee in lieu of issuing separate licenses but the area for off-
sale may not exceed 600 square feet. The city may only issue one combination
off-sale and on-sale intoxicating license.
(Ord. 360, passed 4-17-2018)
CLUBS
§ 111.105 CLUB LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any club to sell or keep or offer for sale any beer or
liquor without a license therefor from the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.60, Subd. 1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.106 SALES LIMITED TO MEMBERS AND GUESTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GUEST. A person present on the licensed premises in the company of and
being entertained by a member.
      MEMBER. Any person in good standing according to rules and regulations of
the club, wherever located, having evidence of current membership upon his or
her person.
   (B)   Unlawful acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for a club licensee to sell liquor or beer to any
person not a member of the licensed club unless he or she is the guest of a
member and actually in the company of his or her host member, and present on
the licensed premises only while the member is also present.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person who is not a member of the licensed
club to purchase liquor or beer from the club unless he or she is a guest of
the member.
(Prior Code, § 5.60, Subd. 3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.107 OTHER CLUB LICENSE RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All club licensees shall keep a daily register showing the names of
guests present and the name of the host member. The register shall be open to
inspection by any police officer at all times.
   (B)   All liquor and beer license restrictions, sale regulations and hours
and days of sales, as stated in this chapter and relating to the on-sale of
liquor and beer, shall be binding upon all club licensees.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any club licensee to fail to strictly comply with
the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 5.60, Subd. 4) Penalty, see §
10.99
ON-SALE WINE LICENSE
§ 111.120 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell, or keep or offer for sale, any wine,
which shall not exceed 14% alcohol by volume, without a license therefor from
the City.
(Prior Code, § 5.70, Subd. 1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.121 WINE LICENSE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Sale when not permitted by city code. It is unlawful to sell wine
during hours, or on days, when the on-sale of liquor is not permitted by the
city code.
   (B)   Consumption of wine on licensed premises more than 30 minutes after
hours. It is unlawful for any person to consume, or any licensee to permit
consumption of, any wine on licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the
hour when a sale can legally be made. Provided, that this shall not prevent a
licensee from continuing to serve food after the legal time for wine sales.
   (C)   Sale to persons to whom liquor sales are not permitted. It is unlawful
to sell wine to persons to whom liquor sales are not permitted by the city
code.
   (D)   Issuance of wine license. No wine license shall be issued to an
applicant other than a restaurant. For purposes of this section, a RESTAURANT
means an establishment, under control of a single proprietor or manager, having
appropriate facilities for the serving of meals, and where, in consideration of
payment therefor, meals are regularly served at tables to its guests, the
principal part of the business being the serving of foods, and which shall have
seating facilities for seating not less than 25 guests at one time.
   (E)   Sale of wine. It is unlawful for any licensee to make any sale of wine
except for consumption on the licensed premises and in conjunction with the
sale of food.
   (F)   Removal of wine from restaurant. An establishment licensed to sell
liquor or wine at on-sale under this chapter may permit a person purchasing a
full bottle of wine in conjunction with the purchase of a meal to remove the
bottle on leaving the licensed premises provided that the bottle has been
opened and the contents partially consumed. A removal of a bottle under the
conditions described in this provision is not an off-sale of liquor and may be
permitted without additional license.
(Prior Code, § 5.70, Subd. 4) (Ord. 128, effective 6-5-1992; Ord. 300,
effective 12-17-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
LICENSE RESTRICTIONS AND CONDITIONS OF OPERATION
§ 111.135 GAMBLING DEVICES.
   No slot machines or other gambling device or apparatus shall be permitted on
licensed premises, or in any room connected therewith, except that gambling
devices may be kept or operated and raffles conducted on licensed premises and
adjoining rooms when the activities are licensed by the Charitable Gambling
Control Board.
(Prior Code, § 5.80, Subd. 1) (Ord. 50, effective 1-4-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.136 INSPECTIONS.
   Any licensed premises may be inspected by the Health Officer, in accordance
with §
10.20, at a time or times as necessary or advisable to maintain clean and
sanitary conditions.
(Prior Code, § 5.80, Subd. 3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.137 REFILLED CONTAINERS.
   No licensee shall sell, offer for sale or keep for sale, liquor in any
original package which has been refilled or partly refilled.
(Prior Code, § 5.80, Subd. 4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.138 EMPLOYMENT OF FELONS.
   No person shall be employed on licensed premises who has been convicted of a
felony or of any law relating to the manufacture, sale or transportation of
liquor.
(Prior Code, § 5.80, Subd. 5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.139 EMPLOYMENT OF PERSONS UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE.
   No person under 18 years of age employed in a place where liquor is sold for
consumption on the premises, may serve or sell intoxicating liquor.
(Prior Code, § 5.80, Subd. 6) (Ord. 80, effective 4-3-1987; Ord. 352, passed 5-
2-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.140 SELLING OR SERVING TO INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   It is unlawful for any licensee or employee thereof to sell or serve liquor
to any person who is obviously intoxicated.
(Prior Code, § 5.80, Subd. 7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.141 LICENSEE RESPONSIBILITY.
   Every licensee shall be responsible for the conduct of his or her place of
business and for conditions of sobriety and order therein.
(Prior Code, § 5.80, Subd. 8)
§ 111.142 LOITERING.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect's escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a "no loitering" sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
§ 111.143 CONSUMPTION AND POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON STREETS PUBLIC
PROPERTY AND PRIVATE PARKING LOTS TO WHICH THE PUBLIC HAS ACCESS.
   It is unlawful for any person to consume, or possess in an unsealed
container, any alcoholic beverage on any street, public property or private
parking lot to which the public has access, except city parks, public property
and private parking lots to which the public has access, when and where
permission has been specifically granted or licensed by the Council. Provided,
that this section shall not apply to the possession of an unsealed container in
a motor vehicle when the container is kept in the trunk of the vehicle if it is
equipped with a trunk, or kept in some other area of the vehicle not normally
occupied by the driver or passengers, if the motor vehicle is not equipped with
a trunk. For the purpose of this section, a utility or unlocked glove
compartment shall be deemed to be within the area occupied by the driver or
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 5.82) (Ord. 80, effective 4-3-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.144 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN CERTAIN BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS.
   It is unlawful for any person to introduce upon, or have in his or her
possession upon, or in, any public elementary or secondary school building, any
alcoholic beverage, except for experiments in laboratories and except for those
organizations who have been issued temporary licenses to sell alcoholic
beverages, and for any person to possess alcoholic beverages as a result of a
purchase from those organizations holding temporary licenses.
(Prior Code, § 5.83) (Ord. 128, effective 6-5-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
OUTDOOR ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE LICENSES REQUIRED FOR OUTDOOR CONSUMPTION
§ 111.160 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No licensee shall permit the consumption of alcohol beverages on any
part of the licensed premises not enclosed within the building, except under
license granted by the City Council.
   (B)   The licenses are a privilege in which no rights vest and, therefore,
may be revoked by the City Council at its pleasure at any time or shall
otherwise expire on December 31 of each year.
   (C)   No person shall consume or have in his or her possession alcohol
beverages on any undesignated part of the licensed premises which is not
described in a valid outdoor alcoholic beverage license.
(Ord. 283, passed 6-5-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.161 LIMITATIONS ON ISSUANCE OF OUTDOOR ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE LICENSE.
   (A)   No outdoor alcoholic beverage license shall be issued for a licensed
premises if any part of the premises described outdoor seating area is within
100 feet of a structure used for residential purposes, except residential uses
located in the same structure as the licensed premises or residential uses
found only on the second floor of a structure. No outdoor alcoholic beverage
license shall be issued for an establishment if the described outdoor seating
area is greater than 50% of the gross floor area of the adjoining licensed
premises. Each applicant for an outdoor alcoholic beverage license shall
accurately describe the area intended for use as an outdoor seating area and
shall indicate the nature of fencing or other measures intended to provide
control over the operation of the licensed premises outdoor seating area. The
Building Inspector shall review the site prior to approval. The nature of
fencing or other measures shall be approved by the Chief of Police and shall
review all proposed outdoor alcoholic beverage licenses to determine if they
are harmful, offensive or otherwise adverse to the surrounding neighborhood and
shall recommend that the license be granted as requested, modified or denied to
the City Council for final decision.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall verify that criteria established by the
Chief of Police and the City Council are met prior to issuance of an outdoor
alcoholic beverage license.
   (C)   No amplified sound or music is permitted outside the enclosed
(building) premises. Amplified sound or music is not permitted in the outdoor
seating area. There shall be a licensed operator with the outdoor seating area
at all times.
   (D)   There shall be a $50 fee for an outdoor alcoholic beverage license.
(Ord. 283, passed 6-5-2008)
§ 111.162 STATE STATUTES ENFORCED WITHIN OUTDOOR SEATING AREA.
   (A)   Every licensee under this subchapter shall comply with and enforce all
provisions of state statutes, applicable to a licensed premises, except insofar
as the provisions are clearly inapplicable.
   (B)   Violation of the provisions of state statutes shall be grounds for
immediate revocation of the outdoor alcoholic beverage license by the City
Council.
(Ord. 283, passed 6-5-2008)
MINORS; UNLAWFUL ACTS
§ 111.175 CONSUMPTION.
   It is unlawful for:
   (A)   Any licensee to permit any minor to consume alcoholic beverages on
licensed premises; and/or
   (B)   Any minor to consume alcoholic beverages except in the household of
the minor's parent or guardian, and then only with the consent of the parent or
guardian.
(Prior Code, § 5.18, Subd. 1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.176 PURCHASING.
   It is unlawful for:
   (A)   Any person to sell, barter, furnish or give alcoholic beverages to a
minor unless the person is the parent or guardian of the minor, and then only
for consumption in the household of the parent or guardian;
   (B)   Any minor to purchase or attempt to purchase any alcoholic beverage;
and/or
   (C)   To induce a minor to purchase or procure any alcoholic beverage.
(Prior Code, § 5.18, Subd. 2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.177 POSSESSION.
   It is unlawful for a minor to possess any alcoholic beverage with the intent
to consume it at a place other than the household of the minor's parent or
guardian. Possession of an alcoholic beverage by a minor at a place other than
the household of the parent or guardian is prima facie evidence of intent to
consume it at a place other than the household of his or her parent or
guardian.
(Prior Code, § 5.18, Subd. 3) (Ord. 68, effective 1-24-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.178 ENTERING LICENSED PREMISES.
   It is unlawful for any minor, as defined in this chapter, to enter licensed
premises for the purpose of purchasing or consuming any alcoholic beverage. It
is not unlawful for any person who has attained the age of 16 years to enter
licensed premises for the following purposes:
   (A)   To perform work for the establishment, including the serving of
alcoholic beverages, unless otherwise prohibited by statute;
   (B)   To consume meals; and
   (C)   To attend social functions that are held in a portion of the
establishment where liquor is not sold.
(Prior Code, § 5.18, Subd. 4) (Ord. 128, effective 6-5-1992; Ord. 352, passed
5-2-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.179 MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE.
   It is unlawful for a minor to misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of
purchasing an alcoholic beverage.
(Prior Code, § 5.18, Subd. 5) (Ord. 68, effective 1-24-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.180 PROOF OF AGE.
   Proof of age for purchasing or consuming alcoholic beverages may be
established only by a valid driver's license or identification card issued by
this state, another state or a province of Canada and including the photograph
and date of birth of the licensed person; or by a valid military identification
card issued by the United States Department of Defense; or, in the case of a
foreign national, from a nation other than Canada, by a valid passport.
(Prior Code, § 5.18, Subd. 6) (Ord. 148, effective 7-1-1994)
NUDITY OR OBSCENITY PROHIBITED
§ 111.195 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUDITY. Uncovered, or less than opaquely covered, post-pubertal human
genitals, pubic areas, the post-pubertal human female breast below a point
immediately above the top of the areola or the covered human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state. For purposes of this definition, a female breast is
considered uncovered if the nipple only or the nipple and the areola only are
covered.
   OBSCENE PERFORMANCE. A play, motion picture, dance, show or other
presentation, whether pictured animated or live, performed before an audience
and which in whole or in part depicts or reveals nudity, sexual conduct, sexual
excitement or sado-masochistic abuse, or which includes obscenities or explicit
verbal descriptions or narrative accounts of sexual conduct.
   OBSCENITIES. Those slang words currently generally rejected for regular use
in mixed society, that are used to refer to genitals, female breasts, sexual
conduct or excretory functions or products, either that have no other meaning
or that in context are clearly used for their bodily, sexual or excretory
meaning.
   SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person who is
nude or clad in undergarments or in revealing or bizarre costume, or the
condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained on the
part of one so clothed.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Human masturbation, sexual intercourse or any touching of
the genitals, pubic areas or buttocks of the human male or female, or the
breasts of the female, whether alone or between members of the same or opposite
sex or between humans and animals in an act of apparent sexual stimulation or
gratification.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals or the
breasts of the female when in a state of sexual stimulation, or the sensual
experiences of humans engaging in or witnessing sexual conduct or nudity.
(Prior Code, § 5.90, Subd. 1)
§ 111.196 UNLAWFUL ACT.
   It is unlawful for any person issued a license provided for in this chapter
to permit upon licensed premises any nudity, obscene performance or continued
use of obscenities by any agent, employee, patron or other person.
(Prior Code, § 5.90, Subd. 2) (Ord. 6, effective 7-3-1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
SOCIAL HOST
§ 111.210 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, whiskey, rum,
brandy, gin, or any other distilled spirits including dilutions and mixtures
thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.  Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every liquid
or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which contains .5% or
more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage purposes either alone
or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other substances.
   EVENT OR GATHERING.  Any group of three or more persons who have assembled
or gathered together for a social occasion or other activity.
   HOST.  To aid, conduct, allow, entertain, organize, supervise, control, or
permit a gathering or event.
   PARENT.  Any person having legal custody of a juvenile as natural, adoptive,
or step-parent; as legal guardian; or as a person to whom legal custody has
been given by order of the court.
   RESIDENCE or PREMISES.  Any home, yard, farm, field, land, apartment,
condominium, hotel or motel room, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting
room, park, or any other place of assembly, public or private, whether occupied
on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or
specifically for a party or other social function, and whether owned, leased,
rented, or used with or without permission or compensation.
   UNDERAGE PERSON.  Any individual under 21 years of age.
§ 111.211 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Prohibited acts. It is unlawful for any person(s) to host an event or
gathering at any residence or premises, or any other private or public
property, where alcohol or alcoholic beverages are present, when the person
knows or reasonably should know that an underage person will or does consume
any alcohol or alcoholic beverage or possess any alcohol or alcoholic beverage
with the intent to consume it; and the person fails to take reasonable steps to
prevent possession or consumption by the underage person(s).
   (B)   Aiding others. A person is criminally responsible for violating this
section if the person intentionally aids, advises, hires, counsels, or
conspires with or otherwise procures another to commit the prohibited act.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This section does not apply to conduct solely between an underage
person and his or her parents while present in the parent's household.
      (2)   This section does not apply to legally protected religious
observances.
      (3)   This section does not apply to retail intoxicating liquor or 3.2%
malt liquor licensees, municipal liquor stores, or bottle club permit holders
who are subject to M.S. § 340A.503, Subdivision 1(a)(1).
      (4)   This section does not apply to underage persons who are lawfully in
possession of alcohol or alcoholic beverages during the course and scope of
their employment.
   (D)   Enforcement. This section is enforceable by any certified peace
officer.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES, DANCES AND SHOWS
Section
Mechanical Amusement Devices
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Location of machine
   
112.03   Use for gambling
   
112.04   Payoffs
   
112.05   Automatic payoffs
   
112.06   Destruction of illegally operated machines
   
112.07   Certain machines not regulated
   
112.08   Amusement centers; restrictions
   
112.09   Exception
Dances
   
112.25   Definitions
   
112.26   License required
   
112.27   License fee
   
112.28   Application and license
   
112.29   Dance regulations
Shows
   
112.40   License required
   
112.41   Exceptions
Cross-reference:
   Alcohol licensing and regulation, see
Ch. 111
   General business regulation and licensing, see
Ch. 110
MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT CENTERS. The operation by any person of ten and up to 40 machines,
for public use, upon premises solely within one enclosure and devoted
exclusively to the operation of mechanical amusement devices.
   MACHINE. A mechanical amusement device of any of the following types:
      (1)   A machine or contrivance, including "pinball" machines, mechanical
miniature pool tables, bowling machines, shuffle boards, electric rifle or gun
ranges, miniature mechanical devices and games or amusements patterned after
baseball, basketball, hockey and similar games and like devices, machines or
games which may be played solely for amusement and not as a gambling device,
which devices or games are played by the insertion of a coin or coins or at a
fee fixed and charged by the establishment in which the devices or machines are
located, and which contain no automatic payoff devices for the return of money,
coins, merchandise, checks, tokens or any other thing or item of value;
provided, however, that the machine may be equipped to permit a free play or
game; and
      (2)   Amusement devices designed for and used exclusively as rides by
children, such as, but not limited to, kiddie cars, miniature airplane rides,
mechanical horses and other miniature mechanical devices, not operated as a
part of or in connection with any carnival, circus, show or other entertainment
or exhibition.
(Prior Code, § 6.20, Subd. 1)
§ 112.02 LOCATION OF MACHINE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to locate, place, maintain or operate
any machine on any street or other public ground, and no machine shall be so
located that its operation will create a nuisance.
   (B)   The maximum number of machines as defined in §
112.01 shall be limited to nine in number at any one location or any one
business establishment.
(Prior Code, § 6.20, Subd. 6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 USE FOR GAMBLING.
   It is unlawful for the owner of any machine, or for the owner or operator of
any establishment where it is located, to permit the same to be used for
gambling or for the making of bets or wagers.
(Prior Code, § 6.20, Subd. 7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 PAYOFFS.
   It is unlawful for the licensee or for the owner or operator of the
establishment where the machine is located to give any money, token,
merchandise or any other thing of value or any reward or prize in lieu of free
games registered on the machine, and all free games so registered shall be
played on the machine registering the free game, and there shall be no device
on the machine whereby the operator can cancel registered free games.
(Prior Code, § 6.20, Subd. 8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.05 AUTOMATIC PAYOFFS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, sell or permit to be
operated in his or her place of business any machine which has been converted
into an automatic payoff device which shall automatically award money, prizes,
tokens, merchandise, gifts or anything of value, other than free games to the
operator or player of the machine.
   (B)   It is also unlawful for any person to convert any machine into an
automatic payoff device.
(Prior Code, § 6.20, Subd. 9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.06 DESTRUCTION OF ILLEGALLY OPERATED MACHINES.
   Any machine which shall have been made use of in violation of §
112.03, §
112.04 or §
112.05 of this subchapter may be seized and destroyed in compliance with the
provisions of the statutes of the state relating to gambling devices.
(Prior Code, § 6.20, Subd. 10)
§ 112.07 CERTAIN MACHINES NOT REGULATED.
   This subchapter shall not apply to any machine held or kept for storage for
later sale or distribution.
(Prior Code, § 6.20, Subd. 11)
§ 112.08 AMUSEMENT CENTERS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No amusement center nor any coin-operated musical device therein shall
be operated so as to constitute a public nuisance.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to maintain order on
the licensed premises at all times.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to see that the
licensed premises do not become overcrowded so as to constitute a hazard to the
health or safety of persons therein. The Fire Chief may designate the maximum
number of persons to be permitted on the licensed premises.
   (D)   The licensee shall provide a full-time adult attendant upon the
licensed premises during business hours.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person engaged in the business of operating an
amusement center to sell, offer for sale or knowingly permit to be sold or
offered for sale or to be dispensed or consumed or knowingly brought on the
licensed premises any alcoholic beverages, or narcotic drugs or to knowingly
allow any illegal activity upon the licensed premises.
   (F)   Every amusement center licensed under this section shall have affixed
on its premises in plain view a decalcomania evidencing the issuance of its
license and each machine on the licensed premises shall have affixed to it a
plate or sticker evidencing its being licensed under this section.
   (G)   The license required and described in this section shall be purely a
personal privilege and shall not constitute property. It is not transferable in
any manner.
   (H)   It is unlawful for the owner or operator of any amusement center to
allow the center to be open after 12:00 a.m. of each night or before 9:00 a.m.
on weekdays and 12:00 p.m. on Sunday.
(Prior Code, § 6.20, Subd. 12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.09 EXCEPTION.
   This subchapter shall not apply to video games of chance under the control
of the Charitable Gambling Control Board.
(Prior Code, § 6.20, Subd. 13) (Ord. 51, effective 1-4-1985)
DANCES
§ 112.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC DANCE. Any dance wherein the public may participate by payment,
directly or indirectly, of an admission fee or price for dancing, which fee may
be in the form of a club membership, or payment of money, directly or
indirectly.
   PUBLIC DANCING PLACE. Any room, place or space open to public patronage in
which dancing, wherein the public may participate, is carried on and to which
admission may be had by the public by payment, directly or indirectly, of an
admission fee or price for dancing.
(Prior Code, § 6.21, Subd. 1)
§ 112.26 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a public dancing place, or hold a
public dance, without a license therefor from the city except that a licensed
liquor establishment may allow dancing by its customers without an additional
license.
(Prior Code, § 6.21, Subd. 2) (Ord. 250, passed 6-2-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.27 LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee shall be fixed and determined by the Council at the time the
application is approved by it, which fee shall include the cost of any
investigation and the fees and expenses of providing attendance of a police
officer or officers.
(Prior Code, § 6.21, Subd. 3)
§ 112.28 APPLICATION AND LICENSE.
   (A)   A verified application for a dance license shall be filed with the
city and shall specify the names and addresses of the person, persons,
committee or organization that is to hold the dance, time and place thereof,
and area of the dance floor.
   (B)   All applications shall be accompanied by affidavits of two residents
showing that the applicant is of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she lives, that he or she has not been convicted of a felony,
gross misdemeanor or violation of any public dance laws within the past five
years. No license shall be issued to any person who has been so convicted.
   (C)   No license shall be granted by the Council for any place having so-
called private apartments or "private rooms" furnished or used for any purposes
other than a legitimate business purpose which adjoins the dancing place, or
which may be reached by stairs, elevators or passageway leading from the
dancing place. Nor shall a license be granted for any place which is not
properly ventilated and equipped with necessary toilets, washrooms or lighting
facilities.
   (D)   Applications may be referred by the Council to the Chief of Police for
investigation and report prior to being acted upon by the Council.
   (E)   The Council shall act upon all dance license applications at a regular
or special meeting thereof, whether or not it is included in the call or agenda
of the meeting.
   (F)   The Council may require the presence of one or more police officers,
employed by the city, as a condition to issuance of the license, and the cost
of which shall be paid in advance by the applicant.
   (G)   The dance license shall be posted in the public dancing place and
shall state the name of the licensee, the amount paid therefor, and the time
and place licensed. The license shall also state that the licensee is
responsible for the manner of conducting the dance.
   (H)   No license shall be issued to any applicant under the age of 18 years.
(Prior Code, § 6.21, Subd. 4) (Ord. 108, effective 1-5-1990)
§ 112.29 DANCE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Obscenity and immorality prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to
dance, or for a licensee to permit or suffer any person to dance at any public
dance in an indecent or immodest manner.
   (B)   Certain persons prohibited.
      (1)   No licensee shall permit any unmarried person under the age of 16
years, unless the unmarried person is accompanied by his or her parent or
guardian, to remain in a public dancing place.
      (2)   Nor shall any licensee permit any intoxicated person, or other
person who persists in violating the law, to be or remain in a public dancing
place.
   (C)   Hours of dancing.
      (1)   No public dance shall be held on Sunday between the hours of 1:00
a.m. and 12:00 p.m.
      (2)   No public dance shall be held on any day between the hours of 1:00
a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      (3)   Dancing in licensed liquor establishments is allowed during the
same hours as liquor may be sold.
(Prior Code, § 6.21, Subd. 5) (Ord. 250, passed 6-2-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
SHOWS
§ 112.40 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to present any public show, movie, caravan,
circus, carnival, theatrical or other performance or exhibition without first
having obtained a license therefor from the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.22, Subd. 1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.41 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following performances are exempt from payment of a license fee:
   (A)   Performances presented in the local schools and colleges, under the
sponsorship of the schools and colleges, and primarily for the students thereof
only;
   (B)   Performances of athletic, musical or theatrical events sponsored by
local schools; and
   (C)   Any performance or event in, or sponsored by, bona fide local church
and nonprofit organizations.
(Prior Code, § 6.22, Subd. 2)
CHAPTER 113: TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND RELATED DEVICES
Section
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   License required
   
113.04   License fee
   
113.05   Prohibited sales
   
113.06   Mobile sales
   
113.07   Violations
   
113.08   Hearing on denial or violation
   
113.09   Affirmative defense
§ 113.01 PURPOSE.
   The Council finds that current state law of prohibiting sales of tobacco-
related products to persons under the age of 18 has proven ineffective in
preventing those persons from using tobacco-related products. The Council has
concluded that minors have ready access to self-service merchandising,
including vending machines, which sell tobacco-related products. The Council
has also concluded that the prohibition of the sale or dispensing of tobacco-
related products through vending machines and the regulation of sales through
self-service merchandising will thereby promote the health, safety and welfare
of the residents of the city, particularly those residents under 18 years of
age.
(Prior Code, § 6.23, Subd. 1) (Ord. 200, effective 5-21-1999)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT. A person 18 years of age or older.
   APPLICANT. A person as defined herein, who completes or signs an application
for a license to sell tobacco-related products individually or on behalf of a
business.
   BUSINESS. The business of selling tobacco-related products.
   LICENSE HOLDER. The owner of the business.
   MOVABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. A business whose physical location is not
permanent or is capable of being moved or changed.
   PERSON. One or more natural persons; a partnership, including a limited
partnership; a corporation, including a foreign, domestic or nonprofit
corporation; a trust; a political subdivision of the state; or any other
business organization.
   SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING. A method of displaying tobacco-related products
so that they are accessible to the public without the intervention of an
applicant, license holder or their agents or employees.
   TOBACCO-RELATED PRODUCT. Cigarettes, cigars, cheroots, stogies, perique,
granulated, plug cut, crimpt cut, ready, rubbed and other smoking tobacco;
snuff, snuff flower, cavendish, plug and twist tobacco; fine cut and other
chewing tobaccos; shorts, refuse scripts, clippings, cuttings and sweepings of
tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco, prepared in a manner as to be
suitable for chewing, sniffing or smoking in a pipe; rolling paper or other
tobacco-related devices.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, self-service device
which, upon insertion of money, tokens or any other form of payment, dispenses
tobacco products and including vending machines equipped with manual, electric
or electronic locking devices.
(Prior Code, § 6.23, Subd. 2) (Ord. 200, effective 5-21-1999)
§ 113.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep for retail sale, sell at retail or
otherwise dispense any tobacco-related product at any place in the city without
first obtaining a license and paying a license fee.
   (A)   Application. An application for a license to sell tobacco, tobacco
products or tobacco-related devices shall be made on a form provided by the
city. The application shall include, but is not limited to, requiring the full
name of the applicant, the applicant's residential and business address and
telephone numbers, the name of the proposed license holder, the business
location for which the license is sought, and a copy of the educational
materials the applicant intends to use to educate employees. The completed
application along with the application fee shall be submitted to the City
Administrator or his or her designee for approval. If the City Administrator
determines that an application is incomplete, he or she shall return the
application to the applicant with notice of the deficiencies.
   (B)   Action. The City Administrator may either approve or deny the license,
or may delay action for a reasonable period of time to permit the city to
complete any investigation of the application or the applicant deemed
necessary. If the Administrator approves the license, a license shall be issued
to the applicant. If the Administrator denies the application, a notice of
denial shall be sent to the applicant at the business address provided on the
application along with the reasons for the denial. The notice shall also inform
the applicant of his or her right to appeal the Administrator's decision to the
Council pursuant to the process set forth in §
113.08 herein. If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to an applicant or
license holder, it shall be revoked by the City Administrator upon the
discovery that the person, applicant or license holder was ineligible for the
license under this subchapter.
   (C)   Term. All licenses are issued for a period of one year. The license
period is from January 1 to December 31.
   (D)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued under this section may be
revoked or suspended as provided in the violations and penalties provisions of
this chapter pursuant to the process set forth in §
113.08.
   (E)   Transfers. All licenses issued under this section shall be valid only
on the business premises for which the license was issued and only for the
person to whom the license was issued. No transfer of any license to another
location or person shall be valid without the prior approval of the City
Administrator.
   (F)   Display. Every license shall be conspicuously posted at the place of
business for which the license is issued and shall be exhibited to any person
upon request.
   (G)   Renewals. The renewal of a license under this section shall be handled
in the same manner as the original application. The request for renewal shall
be made at least 30 days but no more than 60 days before the expiration of the
current license. The issuance of a license under this section shall be
considered a privilege and not an absolute right of the applicant and shall not
entitle the holder to an automatic renewal of the license.
   (H)   Instructional program. No person shall be issued a license or renewal
license to sell tobacco-related products unless an applicant or license holder
has an approved program for instructing all employees at the business premises
for which the license was issued, in the legal requirements pertaining to the
sale of tobacco-related products, including, but not limited to, reviewing the
law on the sale of tobacco related products, providing information on the
health risks of using tobacco-related products, and requiring employees to
request identification from every customer who appears to be under 27 years of
age. No license shall be issued unless the applicant or license holder signs a
city form attesting that each employee of the applicant or license holder has
received training and instruction on the sale of tobacco-related products and
the date the training occurred. The training shall include information that the
sale of tobacco-related products to minors is illegal, explains what proof of
age is legally acceptable, and that a sale to a minor can subject the applicant
or license holder and his or her employees to criminal and/or civil liability.
   (I)   Denials. The following shall be grounds for denying the issuance or
renewal of a license under this section. The following list is not exhaustive
or exclusive.
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years.
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted within the past five years of a
violation of any provisions of this section or a violation of a federal, state
or local law, city code provision or other regulation relating to tobacco or
tobacco products or related-tobacco devices.
      (3)   The applicant or license holder has had a license to sell tobacco,
tobacco products or tobacco-related devices revoked within the preceding 12
months of the date of application.
      (4)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the city
license application, or provides false or misleading information.
      (5)   The applicant or license holder has outstanding fines, penalties or
property taxes owed to the city.
   (J)   Compliance checks. All licensed premises shall be open to inspection
by the city police or other authorized city officials during regular business
hours.
      (1)   Annual compliance checks. From time to time, but at least once per
year, the city shall conduct compliance checks. Compliance checks may involve,
but are not limited to, engaging minors to enter the licensed premises to
attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices.
      (2)   Minors. If minors are used for compliance checks, they shall not be
guilty of unlawful possession of tobacco when the items are obtained as a part
of a compliance check. No minor used in compliance checks shall attempt to use
a false identification misrepresenting the minor's age, and all minors lawfully
engaged in a compliance check shall answer all questions about the minors age
asked by the licensee or his or her employee and shall produce any
identification for which he or she is asked.
(Prior Code, § 6.23, Subd. 3) (Ord. 200, effective 5-21-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 LICENSE FEE.
   The application fee shall be determined by the Council and shall be paid at
the time of application. License fees are not pro-rated.
(Prior Code, § 6.23, Subd. 4) (Ord. 200, effective 5-21-1999)
§ 113.05 PROHIBITED SALES.
   (A)   Prohibited sales. It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer for
sale, give away, furnish or otherwise deliver any tobacco, tobacco product or
tobacco-related device:
      (1)   To any person under the age of 18 years;
      (2)   By means of any type of vending machine;
      (3)   By means of self-service merchandising or any means whereby the
customer may have access to items without having to request the item from the
license holder, his or her agents or employees. All tobacco-related products
shall be stored behind a counter or other area not freely accessible to
customers; and
      (4)   By any other means, or to any other person, prohibited by federal,
state or other local law, city code provision or other regulation.
   (B)   Exception. A license holder who operates an establishment that sells
only tobacco-related products is exempt from the self-service merchandising
provision if the license holder prohibits anyone under 18 years of age from
entering the establishment, unless accompanied by a parent and the license
holder conspicuously displays a notice prohibiting persons under 18 years of
age from entering the establishment unless accompanied by a parent.
(Prior Code, § 6.23, Subd. 5) (Ord. 200, effective 5-21-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.06 MOBILE SALES.
   No license shall be issued for the sale of tobacco-related products at a
movable place of business, including but not limited to motorized vehicles,
mobile sales kiosks or trailers.
(Prior Code, § 6.23, Subd. 6) (Ord. 200, effective 5-21-1999)
§ 113.07 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Revocation or suspension. Any violation of this chapter shall be
grounds to revoke or suspend a license.
   (B)   Civil enforcement.
      (1)   Generally. The license holder shall be responsible for the conduct
of its agents or employees while on the licensed premises. Any violation of
this chapter shall be considered an act of the license holder for purposes of
imposing a civil penalty, license suspension or revocation. Each violation, and
every day in which a violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate
offense.
      (2)   Notice of violation. Upon the occurrence of a suspected violation,
the Police Department shall inform the City Administrator of the suspected
violation. The City Administrator shall then send to the license holder a
written notice of the civil violation. The notice shall advise the license
holder of the penalty and the license holder's right to request a hearing
regarding the violation of this chapter pursuant to §
113.08.
   (C)   Criminal prosecution. Any civil penalty, suspension or revocation or
combination thereof under this chapter does not preclude criminal prosecution
under M.S. § 609.685, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 6.23, Subd. 7) (Ord. 200, effective 5-21-1999)
§ 113.08 HEARING ON DENIAL OR VIOLATION.
   (A)   Hearing. Following receipt of a notice of denial issued under §
113.03 hereof, or a notice of a violation issued under §
113.07 hereof, an applicant or license holder may request a hearing before the
Council. A request for a hearing shall be made by the applicant or license
holder in writing and filed with the City Administrator within ten days of the
mailing of the notice of denial or alleged violation. Following receipt of a
written request for hearing, the applicant or license holder shall be afforded
an opportunity for a hearing before the Council. If a committee of the Council
conducts the hearing, it shall report its findings and make a recommendation to
the full Council.
   (B)   Findings. If after the hearing the applicant or license holder is
found ineligible for a license, or in violation of this chapter, the Council
may affirm the denial, impose a fine, issue a suspension or revocation, or
impose any combination thereof as set forth in §
113.07 hereof.
   (C)   Default. If the applicant or license holder has been provided written
notice of the denial or violation and if no request for a hearing is filed
within the ten-day period, then the denial, penalty, suspension or revocation
imposed in §
113.07 shall take immediate effect by default. The City Administrator shall
mail notice of the denial, fine, suspension or revocation to the applicant or
license holder. The city police shall investigate compliance with the
suspension or revocation.
(Prior Code, § 6.23, Subd. 8) (Ord. 200, effective 5-21-1999)
§ 113.09 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.
   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this chapter if the license
holder proves by a preponderance of the evidence that the license holder
reasonably and in good faith relied on proof of age as described in M.S.
Chapter 340A.503, Subdivision 6, as it may be amended from time to time, in
making the sale.
(Prior Code, § 6.23, Subd. 9) (Ord. 200, effective 5-21-1999)
CHAPTER 114: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
114.03   Licensing; exemptions
   
114.04   License ineligibility
   
114.05   License suspension and revocation
   
114.06   License transferability
   
114.07   Registration
   
114.08   Prohibited activities
   
114.09   Exclusion by placard
   
114.10   Effectiveness
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to- street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise or other personal property that the person is carrying or
otherwise transporting. The term PEDDLER shall mean the same as the term
"hawker."
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership or association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships and associations, the term shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent or employee.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the City Hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be counted as regular business days.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street- to-street or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares, products,
merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she may be
carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog or by
other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later time.
The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the scope of
this provision if the actual purpose of the person's activity is to obtain or
attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the same as
the term CANVASSER.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter or empty store front for
the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to sell,
and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal property
and who does not remain or intend to remain in any one location for more than
14 consecutive days.
§ 114.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of the requirements of this chapter, the terms
PEDDLER, SOLICITOR and TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to any person selling
or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods, wares, products, merchandise or
other personal property to a retailer of the items being sold by the
wholesaler. The terms also shall not apply to any person who makes initial
contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to
establish a regular customer delivery route for the delivery of perishable food
and dairy products such as baked goods and milk, nor shall they apply to any
person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to the customers
on his or her established regular delivery route.
   (B)   In addition, persons conducting the type of sales commonly known as
garage sales, rummage sales or estate sales, as well as those persons
participating in an organized multi-person bazaar, farmers market, or flea
market, shall be exempt from the definitions of PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS and
TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, as shall be anyone conducting an auction as a properly
licensed auctioneer, or any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered
sale. Exemption from the definitions for the scope of this chapter shall not
excuse any person from complying with any other applicable statutory provision
or local ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict
door-to-door advocacy. Persons engaging in door-to-door advocacy shall not be
required to register as solicitors under §
114.07. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and
pamphleteering as vehicles for the dissemination of religious, political and
other ideas.
(Ord. 376, passed 5-18-2021)
§ 114.03 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as required by M.S.
Chapter 329, as it may be amended from time to time, if the county issues a
license for the activity.
   (B)   City license required. Pursuant to M.S. § 437.02, as it may be amended
from time to time, except as otherwise provided for by this chapter, no person
shall conduct business as either a peddler or a transient merchant without
first having obtained a license from the city. Solicitors need not be licensed,
but are still required to register pursuant to §
114.07.
   (C)   Application. Application for a city license to conduct business as a
peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting business. Application for a
license shall be made on a form approved by the City Council and available from
the office of the City Administrator. All applications shall be signed by the
applicant. All applications shall include the following information:
      (1)   Applicant's full legal name;
      (2)   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or to
which applicant officially answers;
      (3)   Full address of applicant's permanent residence;
      (4)   Telephone number of applicant's permanent residence;
      (5)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or agent;
      (6)   Full address of applicant's regular place of business (if any);
      (7)   Any and all business related telephone numbers of the applicant;
      (8)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license;
      (9)   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily license;
      (10)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business,
and if the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of days he or
she will be conducting business in the city (maximum 14 consecutive days);
      (11)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up business;
      (12)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor for
violation of any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than
traffic offenses;
      (13)   A list of the three most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant;
      (14)   Proof of any requested county license;
      (15)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner's
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant;
      (16)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided;
      (17)   All additional information deemed necessary by the City Council;
      (18)   The applicant's driver's license number or other acceptable form
of identification; and
      (19)   The license plate number, registration information and vehicle
identification number for any vehicle to be used in conjunction with the
licensed business and a description of the vehicle.
   (D)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee, adopted by resolution and uniformly enforced. The
license fee may, from time to time, be amended by the Council by resolution. A
copy of the resolution setting forth currently effective license fees shall be
kept on file in the office of the City Administrator and open to inspection
during regular business hours.
   (E)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of
the license fee, the City Administrator, within two regular business days, must
determine if the application is complete. An application is determined to be
complete only if all required information is provided. If the City
Administrator determines that the application is incomplete, the City
Administrator must inform the applicant of the required necessary information
that is missing. If the application is complete, the City Administrator must
order any investigation, including background checks, necessary to verify the
information provided with the application. Within ten regular business days of
receiving a complete application the City Administrator must issue the license
unless there exist grounds for denying the license under §
114.04, in which case the City Administrator must deny the license. If the City
Administrator denies the license, the applicant must be notified in writing of
the decision, the reason for denial, and of the applicant's right to appeal the
denial by requesting, within 20 days of receiving notice of rejection, a public
hearing before the City Council. The City Council shall hear the appeal within
20 days of the date of the request. The decision of the City Council following
the public hearing can be appealed by petitioning the State Court of Appeals
for a writ of certiorari.
   (F)   Duration. An annual license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for one calendar year from the date of issue. All other licenses granted under
this chapter shall be valid only during the time period indicated on the
license.
   (G)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated or raised on any farm.
      (2)   No license shall be required of any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street, or other type of
place-to-place when the activity is for the purpose of exercising that person's
state or federal Constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech, press,
religion and the like, except that this exemption may be lost if the person's
exercise of Constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity.
      (3)   Professional fund raisers working on behalf of an otherwise exempt
person or group shall not be exempt from the licensing requirements of this
chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this chapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county license;
   (B)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application;
   (C)   The conviction of the applicant within the past five years from the
date of application for any violation of any federal or state statute or
regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person's
ability to conduct the business for which the license is being sought in an
honest and legal manner. Those violations shall include but not be limited to
burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices and any
form of actual or threatened physical harm against another person;
   (D)   The revocation within the past five years of any license issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or
transient merchant; and
   (E)   The applicant is found to have a bad business reputation. Evidence of
a bad business reputation shall include, but not be limited to, the existence
of more than three complaints against the applicant with the Better Business
Bureau, the Attorney General's Office, or other similar business or consumer
rights office or agency, within the preceding 12 months or three complaints
filed against the applicant within the preceding five years.
§ 114.05 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statements on the application
form;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity;
      (3)   Conviction of any offense for which granting of a license could
have been denied under §
114.04; and
      (4)   Violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person's authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C)
above of this section, the licensee shall have the right to request a public
hearing. If no request for a hearing is received by the City Administrator
within ten regular business days following the service of the notice, the city
may proceed with the suspension or revocation. For the purpose of mailed
notices, service shall be considered complete as of the date the notice is
placed in the mail. If a public hearing is requested within the stated time
frame, a hearing shall be scheduled within 20 days from the date of the
request. Within three regular business days of the hearing, the City Council
shall notify the licensee of its decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person's license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) above of this
section.
   (F)   Appeals. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.06 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.07 REGISTRATION.
   All solicitors, and any person exempt from the licensing requirements of
this chapter under §
114.03, shall be required to register with the city. Persons engaging in door-
to-door advocacy shall not be required to register. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR
ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and pamphleteering as vehicles for
the dissemination of religious, political and other ideas. Registration shall
be made on the same form required for a license application, but no fee shall
be required. Immediately upon completion of the registration form, the City
Administrator shall issue to the registrant a certificate of registration as
proof of the registration. Certificates of registration shall be non-
transferable.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.08 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall conduct business in any of
the following manners:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out or by any other
noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure;
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public right-of-way;
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of any individual or the general public;
   (D)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.;
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration and
identification, when requested, or using the license or registration of another
person;
   (F)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person; and/or
   (G)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conduct business in a manner a reasonable person would find obscene,
threatening, intimidating or abusive.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.09 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant, unless invited to do so by the
property owner or tenant, shall enter the property of another for the purpose
of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or transient merchant when the
property is marked with a sign or placard at least four inches long and four
inches wide with print of at least 48 point in size stating "No Peddlers,
Solicitors or Transient Merchants," or "Peddlers, Solicitors and Transient
Merchants Prohibited" or other comparable statement. No person other than the
property owner or tenant shall remove, deface or otherwise tamper with any sign
or placard under this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.10 EFFECTIVENESS.
   The provisions of §§
114.01,
114.02,
114.08 and
114.09 shall automatically apply upon adoption of this chapter. Sections
114.03,
114.04,
114.05,
114.06 and
114.07 shall not be effective until the adoption of a City Council resolution
or ordinance authorizing the licensing of persons covered by those sections.
CHAPTER 115: GARBAGE AND REFUSE HAULERS
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   License requirements, limitations and unlawful act
   
115.03   Exception
   
115.04   Hauler license requirements
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes, including animal offal and carcasses of
dead animals but excluding human excreta, sewage and other water-carried
wastes.
   OTHER REFUSE. Ashes, glass, crockery, cans, paper, boxes, rags and similar
non-putrescible wastes but excluding sand, earth, brick, stone, concrete,
trees, tree branches and wood.
(Prior Code, § 6.27, Subd. 1) (Ord. 26, effective 12-10-1982)
§ 115.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS, LIMITATIONS AND UNLAWFUL ACT.
   (A)   License required. It is unlawful for any person to haul garbage or
other refuse for hire without a license therefor from the city, or to haul
garbage or other refuse from his or her own residence or business property
other than as herein excepted.
   (B)   Recyclables. No license shall be issued unless the applicant is
equipped and agrees to collect recyclables (metal cans, glass, newsprint,
cardboard, plastics and the like) from the customers served pursuant to a
license if issued.
   (C)   Delivery of recyclables. It is unlawful for any licensee to dispose of
or deliver recyclable material except to a plant equipped to process it, or
into a bona fide channel for delivery. A violation of this division (C) is
ground for license revocation or suspension.
(Prior Code, § 6.27, Subd. 2) (Ord. 108, effective 1-5-1990) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.03 EXCEPTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent persons from hauling garbage or other
refuse from their own residences or business properties provided the following
rules are observed:
   (A)   All garbage is hauled in containers that are water-tight on all sides
and the bottom and with tight-fitting covers on top;
   (B)   All other refuse is hauled in vehicles with leak-proof bodies and
completely covered or enclosed by canvas or other means or material so as to
completely eliminate the possibility of loss of cargo; and
   (C)   All garbage and other refuse shall be dumped or unloaded only at the
designated sanitary landfill.
(Prior Code, § 6.27, Subd. 3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.04 HAULER LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Hauler licenses shall be granted only upon the condition that the
licensee have water-tight, packer-type vehicles in good condition to prevent
loss in transit of liquid or solid cargo, that the vehicle be kept clean and as
free from offensive odors as possible and not allowed to stand in any street
longer than reasonably necessary to collect garbage or refuse, and that the
same be dumped or unloaded only at the designated sanitary landfill, and
strictly in accordance with regulations relating thereto.
   (B)   Before a garbage and refuse hauler's license shall be issued, the
applicant shall file with the city evidence that he or she has provided public
liability insurance on all vehicles in at least the sum of $200,000 for the
injury of one person, $200,000 for the injury of two or more persons in the
same accident and $200,000 for property damages.
   (C)   The Council, in the interest of maintaining healthful and sanitary
conditions in the city, hereby reserves the right to specify and assign certain
areas to all licensees, and to limit the number of licenses issued.
   (D)   The Council may, by resolution, determine the streets and hours which
may, or may not, be used by licensees for refuse collection. The licensees
shall be so notified in writing by the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 6.27, Subd. 4) (Ord. 26, effective 12-10-1982)
CHAPTER 116: KENNELS
Section
   
116.01   Definition
   
116.02   License required
   
116.03   Exception
   
116.04   License restrictions
§ 116.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   KENNEL. Any place, building, tract of land, abode or vehicle, wherein or
whereon three or more dogs, over three months of age, are kept, kept for sale
or boarded.
(Prior Code, § 6.28, Subd. 1) (Ord. 51, effective 1-4-1985)
§ 116.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate or maintain a kennel without a
license therefor from the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.28, Subd. 2) (Ord. 51, effective 1-4-1985)
§ 116.03 EXCEPTION.
   Hospitals and clinics operated by licensed veterinarians exclusively for the
care and treatment of animals are exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.28, Subd. 3) (Ord. 51, effective 1-4-1985)
§ 116.04 LICENSE RESTRICTIONS.
   No license shall be issued to a person for operation of a kennel in any
zoning district, and then only if not within 200 feet of a residential district
or residential use.
(Prior Code, § 6.28, Subd. 4) (Ord. 51, effective 1-4-1985)
CHAPTER 117: SALES OF CERTAIN TYPES
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   License required
   
117.03   Eligible applicants and exceptions
   
117.04   Inventory
   
117.05   License period
   
117.06   Nature of sale
   
117.07   Duties of licensee
   
117.08   Bond
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DAMAGED GOODS SALE. Offering for sale to the public all or part of the
regular inventory of an established business, which inventory has been damaged
or altered by fire, smoke, water or other casualty.
   ESTABLISHED BUSINESS. A retail establishment in the city which offers for
sale goods, wares or merchandise of the same or related kind(s) to the public
at a fixed location.
   FIXED LOCATION. An immobile, non-transient, permanent location upon real
estate in the city which is either owned by the established business or its
owner or leased on a month-to-month term, or leased on a term-certain lease for
a period longer than 30 days.
   MOVING OR PERMANENTLY TERMINATING BUSINESS SALE. Offering for sale to the
public all or part of the regular inventory of an established business which is
either moving from one location in the city to another location in the city,
moving out of the city or permanently terminating business, whether the
termination is voluntary or involuntary on the part of the owner.
   REGULAR INVENTORY. Any goods, wares or merchandise which was the stock-in-
trade of the established business before the sale. The term does not include
goods, wares or merchandise purchased, imported or offered for the first time
at the sale.
   SALE or OFFERING FOR SALE.
      (1)   Any manner of transferring or attempting to transfer title to
goods, wares or merchandise, whether by auction or otherwise.
      (2)   Provided, however, that the term does not apply to the sale or
attempted sale of the household goods or similar property used around the home
or person of the owner, by the owner, the owner's legal representative, heirs-
at-law or devisees, on residential property by auction or other means.
   TEMPORARY SALE. A sale other than a damaged goods or a moving or permanently
terminating business sale on premises neither owned by the applicant nor leased
for a period of at least six months.
(Prior Code, § 6.29, Subd. 1) (Ord. 129, effective 6-5-1992)
§ 117.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to conduct a damaged goods, temporary sale or
moving or permanently terminating business sale without a license therefor from
the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.29, Subd. 2) (Ord. 129, effective 6-5-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.03 ELIGIBLE APPLICANTS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No license shall be granted to a person who has not been the owner of
the business owning the goods, and conducting the sale, for at least six months
prior to the date of application, provided, that this division shall not apply
to heirs, devisees, legatees or personal representatives of the owner.
   (B)   No license shall be granted at the same location within the period of
two years.
   (C)   No license shall be granted to a person who has been convicted of
violating any provisions of this chapter within five years prior to the
application.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to sales made by public
officials in the performance of their duties or by persons acting pursuant to a
court order or legal process.
(Prior Code, § 6.29, Subd. 3) (Ord. 129, effective 6-5-1992)
§ 117.04 INVENTORY.
   The application for a sale license shall be accompanied by a detailed
inventory of the goods to be sold and the license shall authorize sale of only
those goods.
(Prior Code, § 6.29, Subd. 4) (Ord. 129, effective 6-5-1992)
§ 117.05 LICENSE PERIOD.
   Any license issued pursuant to this section shall be for a period not to
exceed 30 consecutive business days, provided, that upon good cause being shown
the Council may renew the license for an additional period of 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 6.29, Subd. 5) (Ord. 129, effective 6-5-1992)
§ 117.06 NATURE OF SALE.
   The license shall authorize only the one type of sale described in the
application and at the location described.
(Prior Code, § 6.29, Subd. 6) (Ord. 129, effective 6-5-1992)
§ 117.07 DUTIES OF LICENSEE.
   Any licensee under this chapter shall:
   (A)   Make no additions whatsoever, during the period of the licensed sale,
to the stock of goods set forth in the inventory attached to the application
for license;
   (B)   Refrain from employing any untrue, deceptive or misleading
advertising;
   (C)   Conduct the licensed sale in strict conformity with any advertising or
holding out incident thereto; and
   (D)   Keep available at the place of sale a duplicate copy of the inventory
submitted with the application and shall present the duplicate to inspecting
officials upon request.
(Prior Code, § 6.29, Subd. 7) (Ord. 129, effective 6-5-1992)
§ 117.08 BOND.
   An applicant for a license under this chapter may be required, as a
condition to being granted a license, to file a corporate surety bond with a
penalty in an amount as the Council may, in its sole discretion determine, to
protect purchasers at the sale.
(Prior Code, § 6.29, Subd. 8) (Ord. 129, effective 6-5-1992)
CHAPTER 118: SAUNA PARLORS
Section
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   License required
   
118.03   License application
   
118.04   Restrictions and regulations
   
118.05   Construction and maintenance requirements
   
118.06   Unlawful acts
   
118.07   License condition and unlawful act
   
118.08   Exception
   
118.09   Resident manager or agent
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SAUNA. A steam, dry heat, infrared or other type of bath used for the
purpose of bathing, relaxing or weight reduction, utilizing steam as the agent
therefor.
   SAUNA PARLOR. Any room or rooms, wherein persons may, for a fee or other
consideration paid either directly or indirectly, receive a sauna.
(Prior Code, § 6.40, Subd. 1)
§ 118.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a sauna parlor without a license
therefor from the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.40, Subd. 2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 118.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   All initial applications for licenses to operate sauna parlors shall be
accompanied by a non-returnable investigation fee. Applications shall contain
the names and addresses of the owners, lessees and operators of the applicant,
together with a description and location of the premises. The application shall
also include information as to any convictions of any crime or offense
committed by the applicant, together with other information as the Council may
require before consideration of the application. All applications by
corporations shall include the names and addresses of all persons having a
beneficial interest therein. An investigation by the Building Inspector shall
be conducted of all premises proposed to be licensed before consideration by
the Council, in accordance with §
10.20. The Police Department shall conduct an investigation of all persons
proposed to be licensed before consideration by the Council. All applications
shall thereafter be considered by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 6.40, Subd. 3)
§ 118.04 RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Licenses shall be granted only for operation upon fixed premises which
must be located in a commercial or industrial district as established by the
city's zoning regulations.
   (B)   Licenses shall be granted only upon a showing of compliance with all
laws of sanitation.
   (C)   No beer, liquor, narcotic drug or controlled substances, as these
terms are defined by state statutes or the city code, shall be permitted on
licensed premises.
   (D)   Violation of any law or regulation relating to building, safety or
health, shall be grounds for revocation of any license.
   (E)   No sauna parlor shall discriminate between persons on the basis of
race, color, creed, sex or national origin or ancestry.
(Prior Code, § 6.40, Subd. 4) (Ord. 217, effective 6-13-2002; Ord. 229,
effective 11-27-2003)
§ 118.05 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All sauna rooms and restrooms and bathrooms used in connection
therewith shall be constructed of materials which are impervious to moisture,
bacteria, mold and fungus growth. The floor-to-wall and wall-to-wall joists
shall be constructed to provide a sanitary cove with a minimum radius of one
inch. There shall be no locks on doors of sauna rooms nor on any other room in
the licensed premises except on one business office, closets for the storage of
supplies and toilet rooms.
   (B)   All toilet rooms used in connection with saunas shall be provided with
mechanical ventilation with two cubic foot per minute per square foot of floor
area, a minimum of 30 foot candles of illumination, a hand washing sink or
sinks equipped with hot and cold running water under pressure, sanitary towels
and soap dispenser.
   (C)   Each sauna shall have a janitor's closet which shall be provided for
the storage of cleaning supplies. The closet shall have mechanical ventilation
with two cubic foot per minute per square foot of floor area and a minimum of
30 foot candles of illumination. The closet shall include a mop sink.
   (D)   Floors, walls and equipment in sauna rooms, in restrooms and in
bathrooms used in connection therewith must be kept in a state of good repair
and clean at all times. Linens and other materials shall be stored at least 12
inches off the floor. Clean towels and wash cloths must be made available to
each customer.
   (E)   Individual lockers shall be made available for use by patrons. The
lockers shall have separate keys for locking.
   (F)   The premises shall contain adequate refuse receptacles, which shall be
emptied at least daily.
(Prior Code, § 6.40, Subd. 5)
§ 118.06 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any licensee to fail to at all times observe all
restrictions, regulations and maintenance requirements contained in this
chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to be open for business between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. of any day, or to permit any patron to be
present upon licensed premises after 2:00 a.m. and before 8:00 a.m. of any day.
(Prior Code, § 6.40, Subd. 6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 118.07 LICENSE CONDITION AND UNLAWFUL ACT.
   (A)   All premises licensed under this chapter shall at all times be open to
inspection by any health or police officer, in accordance with §
10.20, to determine whether or not this chapter and all other laws are being
observed. All persons, as a condition to being issued a license, consent to the
inspection by the officers and without a warrant for searches and seizures.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee, or agent or employee of a licensee,
to hinder or prevent a police or health officer from making the inspection.
(Prior Code, § 6.40, Subd. 7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 118.08 EXCEPTION.
   This chapter shall not apply to a health care facility:
   (A)   Owned by a municipal corporation organized under the laws of the
state;
   (B)   Owned by the state or any of its agencies; or
   (C)   Licensed by the state.
(Prior Code, § 6.40, Subd. 8)
§ 118.09 RESIDENT MANAGER OR AGENT.
   (A)   Before a license is issued under this chapter to an individual who is
a nonresident of the city, to more than one individual whether or not they are
residents of the city, or to a corporation, partnership or association, the
applicant or applicants shall appoint in writing a natural person who is a
resident of the city as its manager or agent.
   (B)   The resident manager or agent shall, by the terms of his or her
written consent:
      (1)   Take full responsibility for the conduct of the licensed premises;
and
      (2)   Serve as agent for service of notices and other process relating to
the license.
   (C)   The manager or agent must be a person who, by reason of age,
character, reputation and other attributes, could qualify individually as a
licensee.
   (D)   If the manager or agent ceases to be a resident of the city or ceases
to act in a capacity for the licensee without appointment of a successor, the
license issued pursuant to the appointment shall be subject to revocation or
suspension.
(Prior Code, § 6.40, Subd. 9)
CHAPTER 119: MASSAGE PRACTITIONERS
Section
   
119.01   Definitions
   
119.02   License required
   
119.03   License application
   
119.04   Restrictions and regulations
   
119.05   Student massage authorization
§ 119.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MASSAGE. The practice of rubbing, stroking, kneading, tamping or rolling of
the body with the hands, for the exclusive purposes of relaxation, physical
fitness or beautification, and for no other purpose, by a person not licensed
as a medical doctor, chiropractor, osteopath, podiatrist, nurse who works
solely under the direction of that person, physical therapist, athletic
director and trainer or beautician and barber who confine their treatment to
the scalp, face and neck.
   MASSAGE PRACTITIONER. A person who, for compensation, practices massage.
(Prior Code, § 6.41, Subd. 1)
§ 119.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to practice massage without a license therefor
from the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.41, Subd. 2) (Ord. 30, effective 3-18-1983) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 119.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   All applicants shall be at least 18 years of age.
   (B)   All initial applications for a license to practice massage within the
city shall be accompanied by a non-returnable investigation fee.
   (C)   Applications shall contain the following information and/or
documentation:
      (1)   Documentation that applicant has graduated and completed at least
500 hours of certified therapeutic massage training from an approved school
recognized by a national or state professional therapeutic massage
organization. Applicants for a massage license renewal are exempt from this
division;
      (2)   Documentation that applicant is a member in good standing of a
national or state recognized professional therapeutic massage organization;
      (3)   Information concerning convictions of any crime or offense
committed by the applicant, other than a traffic offense, and information as to
the time, place and nature of the crime or offense;
      (4)   Proof of professional liability insurance with policy limits of not
less than $1,000,000 for a term no shorter than the license period, with an
insurance carrier approved by the Council; and
      (5)   Any other information reasonably necessary for issuance of the
license upon request by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 6.41, Subd. 3) (Ord. 201, effective 5-28-1999)
§ 119.04 RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   All licensed massage practitioners must provide a "Client Bill of Rights" as
defined by the state's Health Care Freedom Bill, being M.S. § 144.651.
(Prior Code, § 6.41, Subd. 4)
§ 119.05 STUDENT MASSAGE AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   Any licensed massage practitioner may provide students with a clinical
internship.
   (B)   The student must be enrolled at an approved school recognized by a
national or state professional therapeutic massage organization.
   (C)   The clinical internship must be an academic requirement.
   (D)   The school may be required to register with the city and provide
necessary documentation of this information.
   (E)   The internship must take place at all times on the licensed premises.
   (F)   The student shall at all times be under the direct supervision of a
licensed massage practitioner.
   (G)   The student is responsible for carrying his or her own student
liability insurance.
(Prior Code, § 6.41, Subd. 5)
CHAPTER 120: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
120.01   Purpose and intent
   
120.02   Classification
   
120.03   License required
   
120.04   Issuance of license
   
120.05   License fees; license investigation fees
   
120.06   Inspection
   
120.07   Expiration of license
   
120.08   Suspension
   
120.09   Revocation
   
120.10   Appeal
   
120.11   Transfer of license
   
120.12   General restrictions
   
120.13   Additional regulations for escort agencies
   
120.14   Additional regulations for nude model studios
   
120.15   Additional regulations for sexually oriented theaters and sexually
oriented motion picture theaters
   
120.16   Additional regulations for sexually oriented motels
   
120.17   Regulations pertaining to exhibits of sexually explicit films or
videos
   
120.18   Enforcement
   
120.19   Injunction
§ 120.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate sexually oriented
businesses to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
citizens of the city, to guard against the inception and transmission of
disease and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations. The provisions of
this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or
restriction on the content of any communicative materials, including sexually
oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter
to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected
by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market.
   (B)   The Council further finds that experience from other cities
demonstrates that sexually oriented businesses conducted in private by members
of the same or the opposite sex and employing personnel with no specialized
training, are susceptible to operation in a manner contravening, subverting or
endangering the health, safety and welfare of members of the community by being
the sites of acts of prostitution, illicit sex and occasions of violent crimes,
thus requiring close inspection, licensing and regulation.
(Prior Code, § 6.42, Subd. 1) (Ord. 188, effective 10-2-1998)
§ 120.02 CLASSIFICATION.
   The following are classified as sexually oriented businesses:
   (A)   Sexually oriented arcades;
   (B)   Sexually oriented bookstores or sexually oriented video stores;
   (C)   Sexually oriented cabarets;
   (D)   Sexually oriented conversation/rap parlors;
   (E)   Sexually oriented massage parlors;
   (F)   Sexually oriented motels;
   (G)   Sexually oriented motion picture theaters;
   (H)   Sexually oriented saunas;
   (I)   Sexually oriented theaters;
   (J)   Escort agencies;
   (K)   Nude model studios; and
   (L)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Prior Code, § 6.42, Subd. 2) (Ord. 188, effective 10-2-1998)
§ 120.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   A sexually oriented business may not be operated without a valid
license, issued by the city for the particular type of business.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
City Administrator. The application must be accompanied by a sketch or diagram
showing the configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor
space occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be
professionally prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with
market dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or
minus six inches. Applicants who must comply with §
120.16 of this chapter shall submit a diagram meeting the requirements of that
section.
   (C)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
the law by the Fire Department and Building Official.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, the individual must sign the application for a license as
applicant. If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
other than an individual, each individual who has a 10% or greater interest in
the business must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each
applicant must be qualified under §
120.04 and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is
granted.
(Prior Code, § 6.42, Subd. 3) (Ord. 188, effective 10-2-1998)
§ 120.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall approve the issuance of a license to an
applicant within 30 days after receipt of a complete application unless the
City Administrator finds one or more of the following to be true.
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age.
      (2)   An applicant is delinquent in the applicant's payment to the city
of taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed against the applicant or imposed
upon the applicant in relation to a sexually oriented business.
      (3)   An applicant has intentionally failed to provide information
reasonably necessary for issuance of the license or has intentionally falsely
answered a question or request for information on the application form.
      (4)   An applicant has been convicted of a violation of a provision of
this chapter within two years immediately preceding the application. The fact
that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect.
      (5)   An applicant is residing with a person who has been denied a
license by the city to operate a sexually oriented business within the
preceding 12 months, or residing with a person whose license to operate a
sexually oriented business has been revoked within the preceding 12 months.
      (6)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business have not
been approved by the Fire Department and the Building Official as being in
compliance with applicable laws and city code provisions. The Fire Department
and Building Inspector must inspect the premises and issue an inspection report
within 30 days after the applicant identifies the premises and requests an
inspection.
      (7)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid.
      (8)   An applicant has been employed in a sexually oriented business in a
managerial capacity within the preceding 12 months and has demonstrated that
the applicant is unable to operate or manage a sexually oriented business
premises in a peaceful and law-abiding manner, thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers on two or more occasions during the preceding 12-month
period.
      (9)   An applicant or the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with this chapter.
      (10)   An applicant or an applicant's spouse has been convicted of a
crime:
         (a)   Involving any of the following offenses:
            1.   Prostitution as described in M.S. § 609.321, as it may be
amended from time to time;
            2.   Solicitation, inducement of promotion of prostitution as
described in M.S. § 609.322, as it may be amended from time to time;
            3.   Receiving profit derived from prostitution as described in
M.S. § 609.322, Subdivision 1.(3), as it may be amended from time to time;
            4.   Other prohibited acts relating to prostitution as described in
M.S. § 609.324, as it may be amended from time to time;
            5.   Obscenity as described in M.S. § 617.241, as it may be amended
from time to time;
            6.   Sale, dissemination, distribution, display or exhibition of
harmful material to minors as described in M.S. §§ 617.293 and 617.294, as they
may be amended from time to time;
            7.   Sexual performance by a child as described in M.S. § 617.246,
as it may be amended from time to time;
            8.   Dissemination or possession of child pornography as described
in M.S. § 617.247, as it may be amended from time to time;
            9.   Indecent exposure as described in M.S. § 617.23, as it may be
amended from time to time;
            10.   Criminal sexual conduct as described in M.S. §§ 609.342,
609.343, 609.344 and 609.345, as they may be amended from time to time;
            11.   Incest, as described in M.S. § 609.365, as it may be amended
from time to time; or
            12.   Criminal attempt, conspiracy or solicitation to commit any of
the foregoing offenses.
         (b)   For which:
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
            2.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
            3.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month
period.
   (B)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the disqualification of the applicant or applicant's spouse.
   (C)   An applicant who has been convicted or whose spouse has been convicted
of an offense listed in division (A)(10)(a) above of this section may qualify
for a sexually oriented business license only when the time period required by
division (A)(10)(b) above of this section has elapsed.
   (D)   The license, if granted, shall state the name of the person or persons
to whom it is granted, the expiration date and the address of the sexually
oriented business. The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or
near the entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it may be easily
read at any time.
(Prior Code, § 6.42, Subd. 4) (Ord. 188, effective 10-2-1998)
§ 120.05 LICENSE FEES; LICENSE INVESTIGATION FEES.
   (A)   The annual fee for a sexually oriented business license shall be set
by resolution of the Council.
   (B)   The investigation fee for the purpose of issuing a license shall be
set by resolution of the Council.
   (C)   In the event that the license is denied upon application, the license
fee shall be refunded; however, no part of the license investigation fee shall
be returned to the applicant.
   (D)   No part of the annual license fee shall be refunded if the license is
suspended or revoked.
(Prior Code, § 6.42, Subd. 5) (Ord. 188, effective 10-2-1998)
§ 120.06 INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Police
Department, Fire Department and Building Inspection Division to inspect the
premises of a sexually oriented business for the purpose of ensuring compliance
with the law, at any time it is occupied or open for business, in accordance
with §
10.20.
   (B)   A person who operates a sexually oriented business or their agent or
employee commits an offense if the person refuses to permit a lawful inspection
of the premises by a representative of the Police Department at any time it is
occupied or open for business.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to areas of a sexually
oriented motel which are currently being rented by a customer for use as a
permanent or temporary habitation.
(Prior Code, § 6.42, Subd. 6) (Ord. 188, effective 10-2-1998)
§ 120.07 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each renewal license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year.
All licenses expire on December 31 of each year. Each license may be renewed
only by making application as provided in §
120.03. Application for renewal should be made at least 90 days before the
expiration date. If the City Administrator determines good and sufficient cause
is shown by the applicant for failure to file a timely renewal application, the
City Administrator shall, if other provisions of this chapter are complied
with, grant the application.
   (B)   When the City Administrator denies renewal of a license, the applicant
shall not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If,
subsequent to denial, the City Administrator finds that the basis for denial of
the renewal license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted
a license if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
(Prior Code, § 6.42, Subd. 7) (Ord. 188, effective 10-2-1998)
§ 120.08 SUSPENSION.
   The City Administrator may suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30
days following written notice and an opportunity to be heard if the City
Administrator determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee has:
   (A)   Violated or is not in compliance with this chapter;
   (B)   Engaged in excessive use of alcoholic beverages while on the sexually
oriented business premises;
   (C)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter;
   (D)   Knowingly permitted unlawful gambling by any person on the sexually
oriented business premises; and/or
   (E)   Demonstrated inability to operate or manage a sexually oriented
business in a peaceful and law-abiding manner thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers.
(Prior Code, § 6.42, Subd. 8) (Ord. 188, effective 10-2-1998)
§ 120.09 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Administrator may revoke a license preceded by written notice
and an opportunity to be heard if a cause of suspension in §
120.08 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months.
   (B)   The City Administrator may revoke a license if the City Administrator
determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information to the city during
the application process;
      (2)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use or
sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises;
      (4)   A licensee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended;
      (5)   A licensee has been convicted of an offense listed in §
120.04(A)(10)(a) for which the time period required in §
120.04(A)(10)(b) has not elapsed;
      (6)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons committed an offense occurring in or on the licensed premises of a
crime listed in §
120.04(A)(10)(a), for which a conviction has been obtained, and the person or
persons were employees of the sexually oriented business at the time the
offenses were committed;
      (7)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or sexual contact to occur
in or on the licensed premises. The term SEXUAL CONTACT shall have the meaning
as it is defined in M.S. § 609.341, Subdivision 11(b), as it may be amended
from time to time; or
      (8)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city for ad valorem
taxes, local lodging tax or other taxes or fees related to the sexually
oriented business.
   (C)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the revocation of the license.
   (D)   Division (B)(7) above does not apply to sexually oriented motels as a
ground for revoking the license unless the licensee or employee knowingly
allowed the act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or
sexual contact to occur in a public place or within public view.
   (E)   (1)   When the City Administrator revokes a license, the revocation
shall continue for one year and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually
oriented business license for one year from the date revocation became
effective.
      (2)   If, subsequent to revocation, the City Administrator finds that the
basis for the revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be
granted a license if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date the
revocation became effective.
      (3)   If the license was revoked under division (B)(7) above of this
section, an applicant may not be granted another license until the appropriate
number of years required under §
120.04(A)(10)(b) have elapsed.
(Prior Code, § 6.42, Subd. 9) (Ord. 188, effective 10-2-1998)
§ 120.10 APPEAL.
   (A)   Appeal generally. If the City Administrator requires an establishment
that is unlicensed to apply for a license, denies the issuance of a license, or
suspends or revokes a license, the City Administrator shall send to the
applicant or licensee, by certified mail, return receipt requested, written
notice of the action and the right to an appeal. The aggrieved party may appeal
the decision of the City Administrator within ten days of receiving notice of
the city's action. The filing of an appeal stays the action of the City
Administrator in requiring, suspending or revoking a license until the Council
makes a final decision.
   (B)   Procedure. The Council may appoint a committee of the Council or an
independent hearing officer to hear the matter, report findings of fact and a
recommendation for disposition to the Council. Hearings on the appeal shall be
open to the public and the licensee or applicant shall have the right to appear
and be represented by legal counsel and to offer evidence in its behalf. At the
conclusion of the hearing, the Council shall make a final decision.
   (C)   Additional requirements. The Council may condition denial, suspension,
revocation or non-renewal of a license upon appropriate terms and conditions.
(Prior Code, § 6.42, Subd. 10) (Ord. 188, effective 10-2-1998)
§ 120.11 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer a license to another, nor shall a licensee
operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license at any
place other than the address designated in the application.
(Prior Code, § 6.42, Subd. 11) (Ord. 188, effective 10-2-1998)
§ 120.12 GENERAL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Distance requirement for live entertainment. All performers, dancers
and persons providing live entertainment distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on matters depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas in the licensed facility or in areas
adjoining the licensed facility where the entertainment can be seen by patrons
of the licensed facility shall remain at all times a minimum distance of ten
feet from all patrons, customers or spectators and shall dance or provide
entertainment on a platform intended for that purpose, which shall be raised at
least two feet from the level of the floor on which patrons or spectators are
located.
   (B)   Interaction with patrons. No dancer, performer or person providing
live entertainment distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matters
depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas in the licensed facility or in areas adjoining the licensed
facility where the entertainment can be seen by patrons of the licensed
facility shall fondle or caress any spectator or patron.
   (C)   Gratuity prohibition. No customers, spectator or patron of a licensed
facility shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any dancer or performer,
and no dancer or performer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron or
spectator.
   (D)   Hours of operation. Except for licensees for a sexually oriented
motel, a licensee shall not be open for business to the public during the
following hours on the following days: Monday through Sunday; not open before
8:00 a.m. nor after 1:00 a.m.
   (E)   Maintenance of order. A licensee under this chapter shall be
responsible for the conduct of the business being operated and shall not allow
any illegal activity to take place on or near the licensed premises, including
but not limited to prostitution, public indecency, indecent exposure,
disorderly conduct or the sale or use of illegal drugs. Every act or omission
by an employee or independent contractor of the licensee constituting a
violation of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the licensee
if the act or omission occurs either with the authorization, knowledge or
approval of the licensee, or as a result of the licensee's negligent failure to
supervise the employee's or independent contractor's conduct.
(Prior Code, § 6.42, Subd. 12) (Ord. 188, effective 10-2-1998)
§ 120.13 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if that person acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 18 years.
(Prior Code, § 6.42, Subd. 13) (Ord. 188, effective 10-2-1998)
§ 120.14 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   Nude model studios shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if he or she appears in a state of nudity
or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity in an area of a nude
model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 6.42, Subd. 14) (Ord. 188, effective 10-2-1998)
§ 120.15 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED THEATERS AND SEXUALLY
ORIENTED MOTION PICTURE THEATERS.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if he or she knowingly allows a person
under the age of 18 years to appear in a state of nudity in or on the premises
of a sexually oriented theater or sexually oriented motion picture theater.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (A) above of this
section if the person under 18 years was in a restroom not open to public view
or persons of the opposite sex.
(Prior Code, § 6.42, Subd. 15) (Ord. 188, effective 10-2-1998)
§ 120.16 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED MOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial
establishment has been rented and vacated two or more times in a period of time
that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
establishment is a sexually oriented motel as that term is defined in this
chapter.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if, as the person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that does not have a
sexually oriented business license, he or she rents or subrents a sleeping room
to a person and, within ten hours from the time the room is rented, the person
rents or subrents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) above of this section, the terms RENT or
SUBRENT mean the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of
consideration.
(Prior Code, § 6.42, Subd. 16) (Ord. 188, effective 10-2-1998)
§ 120.17 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITS OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR
VIDEOS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than a sexually oriented motel, which exhibits on the premises
in a viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette or other video reproduction which depicts specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager's stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the permit will be conspicuously posted or granted. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's blueprint shall
not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to
some designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or
with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of
all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches. The City Administrator may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal
applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted
and certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been altered since
it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the prior approval of the City Administrator.
      (4)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of the
premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager's stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in a manner that there is an unobstructed view
of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any
purpose from at least one of the manager's stations. The view required in this
division must be by direct line of sight from the manager's station.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure that
the view area specified in division (A)(5) above remains unobstructed by any
doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times that
any patron is present in the premises and to ensure that no patron is permitted
access to any area of the premises which has been designated as an area in
which patrons will not be permitted in the application filed pursuant to
division (A)(1) above of this section.
      (7)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than one footcandle as measured at the
floor level.
      (8)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure that
the illumination described above, is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
   (B)   A person having a duty under division (A)(1) through (A)(8) above
commits an offense if the person knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Prior Code, § 6.42, Subd. 17) (Ord. 188, effective 10-2-1998)
§ 120.18 ENFORCEMENT.
   It is a defense to prosecution under this chapter that a person appearing in
a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
   (A)   By a proprietary school licensed by the state; a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
   (B)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
   (C)   In a structure:
      (1)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
      (2)   Where in order to participate in a class a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
      (3)   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
(Prior Code, § 6.42, Subd. 18) (Ord. 188, effective 10-2-1998)
§ 120.19 INJUNCTION.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without a valid license or in violation of this chapter is subject to a suit
for injunction as well as prosecution for criminal violations.
(Prior Code, § 6.42, Subd. 19) (Ord. 188, effective 10-2-1998)
CHAPTER 121: MOBILE FOOD UNITS
Section
   
121.01   Definitions
   
121.02   City license
   
121.03   Mobile food unit requirements
   
121.04   Duration of sales
   
121.05   Overnight storage
   
121.06   Signs
   
121.07   Noise
   
121.08   Parking
   
121.09   Hours of operation
   
121.10   Waste disposal
   
121.11   Self-containment
   
121.12   Locations
   
121.13   License suspension and revocation
§ 121.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE FOOD UNIT. A self-contained food service operation, located in a
readily movable motorized wheeled or towed vehicle that is readily movable
without disassembling and that is used to store, prepare, display, or serve
food intended for individual portion service; or a mobile food unit as defined
in M.S. § 157.15, Subd. 9.
(Ord. 366, passed 8-7-2019)
§ 121.02 CITY LICENSE.
   City license required. Except as otherwise provided for by this chapter, no
person shall conduct business as a mobile food unit without first obtaining a
license from the city. This license is non-transferable. Licenses may be denied
for the reasons set forth in City Code §
114.04.
   (A)   Charitable, civic, non-profit, and educational or political
organizations with offices in the Cannon Falls area and which primarily serve
the greater Cannon Falls area with its services need not be licensed, but are
required to register with the city.
   (B)   The annual license fee is $250.00. Alternatively, a mobile food unit
may obtain a limited license to operate on a daily basis with a fee of $25.00
per day. The license must be displayed in the mobile food unit.
(Ord. 366, passed 8-7-2019)
§ 121.03 MOBILE FOOD UNIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   State license. Mobile food units shall hold a valid license from the
State of Minnesota Department of Health or Department of Agriculture. Any
conditions of the State Health Department shall be incorporated into the
license issued under this chapter, in addition to any other conditions by the
city.
   (B)   Insurance. No permit shall be granted, nor be effective until the
applicant files with the city a certificate of liability insurance by an
insurance company authorized to do business in the State of Minnesota,
evidencing the following forms of insurance:
      (1)   Commercial general liability insurance, with a limit of not less
than $1,500,000.00 each occurrence. If such insurance contains an annual
aggregate limit, the annual aggregate limit shall be not less than
$2,000,000.00;
      (2)   Automobile liability insurance, with a limit of not less than
$2,000,000.00 combined single limit. The insurance shall cover liability
arising out of any auto, including owned, hired and non-owned vehicles;
      (3)   Food products liability insurance, with a limit of not less than
$1,000,000.00 each occurrence;
      (4)   Public liability insurance, with a limit of not less than
$1,000,000.00 for each occurrence;
      (5)   Property damage insurance, with a limit of not less than
$1,000,000.00 each occurrence;
      (6)   Workers compensation insurance (statutory limits) or evidence of
exemption from state law; and
      (7)   The city shall be endorsed as an additional insured on the
certificate of insurance and any umbrella/excess insurance if the applicant
intends to operate its mobile food unit on public property.
(Ord 366, passed 8-7-2019)
§ 121.04 DURATION OF SALES.
   The annual license shall be valid for a calendar year; however, the mobile
food unit cannot operate in, or in front of, the same location on streets,
alleys, parks or other public property for more than 21 days during any
calendar year.
(Ord. 366, passed 8-7-2019)
§ 121.05 OVERNIGHT STORAGE.
   No overnight storage of a mobile food unit shall be permitted on public land
unless approved by City Council.
(Ord. 366, passed 8-7-2019)
§ 121.06 SIGNS.
   No signage shall violate the provisions of this code relating to size and
number of business signs. One "A" frame sign not exceeding 12 square feet per
side is permitted during operation, not to impede on vehicular or pedestrian
traffic.
(Ord. 366, passed 8-7-2019)
§ 121.07 NOISE.
   No shouting, blowing a horn, ringing a bell, or use of any sound devices
upon any of the streets, alleys, parks, or other public places of the city or
upon any private premises in the city.
(Ord. 366, passed 8-7-2019)
§ 121.08 PARKING.
   Mobile food units must be located on a paved surface. A mobile food unit may
not operate in a traffic lane, on a sidewalk, or in any location which causes
an obstruction of traffic, such as queuing of patrons or advancement of
vehicles. A mobile food unit may operate on public streets and occupy no more
than two parking spaces. Excepting Veterans Lane public land, no parking or
sales shall take place within 60 feet of an intersection of two or more
streets, nor within 30 feet of a private driveway or public alley that accesses
a public street.
(Ord. 366, passed 8-7-2019)
§ 121.09 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Hours of operation are limited to 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.
(Ord. 366, passed 8-7-2019)
§ 121.10 WASTE DISPOSAL.
   Mobile food units shall provide waste disposal and clean up all litter and
garbage generated by the mobile food unit removing their receptacles when they
relocate. They shall provide separate trash and recycling receptacles for their
customers.
(Ord. 366, passed 8-7-2019)
§ 121.11 SELF-CONTAINMENT.
   Mobile food units cannot connect to public utilities. Any generators must be
self-contained. There shall be no electrical cords or exterior hazards to the
public.
(Ord. 366, passed 8-7-2019)
§ 121.12 LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Licensed mobile food units shall be allowed to operate in the public
right-of-way and municipal parking lots (excluding the Public Library lot) in
the B-1, Central Business District and the B-2, Highway Business District
pursuant to the Zoning Code. Licensed mobile food units may operate on
privately owned property located in the I-1, Limited Industrial District, the
I-2, General Industrial District and the R-B, Residential Business District
pursuant to the Zoning Code.
   (B)   Mobile food units are also allowed to operate on public streets
adjacent to John Burch Park and East Side Park and within public parking lots
located in Riverside Park and Two Rivers Park.
   (C)   A mobile food unit may be licensed to operate on Veterans Lane public
land provided: (1) the mobile food unit is located a distance no greater than
45 feet from the Mill Street right-of-way; and (2) city staff have determined
that the proposed site and operational plan for the mobile food unit is not
expected to endanger public safety.
   (D)   Mobile food units may not provide external seating.
   (E)   Mobile food units are prohibited from vending within 500 feet of: (1)
an approved community festival unless they are specifically authorized by the
event organizer to participate in the festival; or (2) John Burch Park without
prior approval of the city.
   (F)   Mobile food units may not be located within 100 feet of any food
service establishment as measured from the mobile food unit to the food service
building, except that in the I-1, I-2 and R-B Districts, the mobile food unit
may be located closer to a food service establishment with the written consent
of the food service establishment.
(Ord. 366, passed 8-7-2019; Ord. 383, passed 5-17-2022)
§ 121.13 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   Any license under this chapter may be suspended or revoked at the discretion
of the City Council for violation of any of the following:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statements on the application
form;
   (B)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course of
the licensed activity;
   (C)   Conviction of any offense for which granting of a license could have
been denied under City Code §
114.04; or
   (D)   Violation of any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 366, passed 8-7-2019)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
         
131.   JUVENILE CURFEW
         
132.   LURKING, LOITERING AND PROWLING
         
133.   PUBLIC INDECENCY
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Dangerous trespass and other acts
   
130.02   Unlawful assembly; presence at unlawful assembly
   
130.03   Disorderly conduct
§ 130.01 DANGEROUS TRESPASS AND OTHER ACTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Smoke in the presence of explosives, or inflammable materials, or in a
building or area in which "No Smoking" notices have been prominently posted;
   (B)   Interfere with or obstruct the prevention or extinguishing of any
fire, or disobey the lawful orders of a law enforcement officer or firefighter
present at a fire;
   (C)   Show a false light or signal or interfere with any light, signal or
sign controlling or guiding traffic upon a highway, railway track or navigable
water;
   (D)   Place an obstruction upon a railroad track;
   (E)   Expose another or his or her property to an obnoxious or harmful gas,
fluid or substance, with intent to injure, molest or coerce;
   (F)   Permit domestic animals or fowl under his or her control to go upon
the lands of another within the city;
   (G)   Interfere unlawfully with any monument, sign or pointer erected or
marked to designate a point of a boundary, line or a political subdivision or a
tract of land;
   (H)   Trespass upon the premises of another, and without claim of right
refuses to depart therefrom on demand of the lawful possessor;
   (I)   Occupy or enter the dwelling of another, without claim of right, or
consent of the owner, or the consent of one who has the right to give consent,
except in an emergency situation;
   (J)   Enter the premises of another with intent to take or injure any fruit,
fruit trees or vegetables growing thereon without the permission of the owner
or occupant; or
   (K)   Without the permission of the owner, tamper with or get into or upon a
motor vehicle, or ride in or upon the motor vehicle knowing it was taken and is
being driven by another without the permission of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 10.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY; PRESENCE AT UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   Unlawful assembly. It is unlawful for three or more persons to
assemble, and each participant shall be guilty of unlawful assembly, if the
assembly is:
      (1)   With intent to commit any unlawful act by force;
      (2)   With intent to carry out any purpose in a manner as will disturb or
threaten the public peace; or
      (3)   Without unlawful purpose, but the participants conduct themselves
in a disorderly manner as to disturb or threaten the public peace.
   (B)   Presence at unlawful assembly. It is unlawful for any person to be
present at the place of an unlawful assembly and refuse to leave when so
directed by a law enforcement officer.
(Prior Code, § 10.21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for any person, in a public or private place, knowing, or
having reasonable grounds to know, that it will, or will tend to, alarm, anger
or disturb others or provoke any assault or breach of the peace, to do or
permit upon premises owned or controlled by him or her, the following:
   (A)   Engage in brawling or fighting;
   (B)   Disturb an assembly or meeting, not unlawful in its character;
   (C)   Willfully and lewdly expose his or her person or the private parts
thereof, or procure another to so expose himself or herself; and any open or
gross lewdness or lascivious behavior, or any act of public indecency;
   (D)   Whether or not posted with signs so prohibiting, voluntarily enter the
waters of any lake, river or city public swimming pool for the purpose of
swimming between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. except with specific
permission; or, enter those waters without being garbed in a bathing suit
sufficient to cover his or her person and equal to the standards generally
adopted and accepted by the public;
   (E)   Race the motor of any motor vehicle;
   (F)   Use a flash or spotlight in a manner so as to annoy or endanger
others;
   (G)   Drink or display any intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating malt
liquor in or about any premises where drinking or display is prohibited by law;
   (H)   Cause defacement, destruction or otherwise damage to any premises or
any property located thereon;
   (I)   Strew, scatter, litter, throw, dispose of or deposit any refuse,
garbage or rubbish onto any premises except into receptacles provided for that
purpose;
   (J)   Enter any motor vehicle of another without the consent of the owner or
operator; or
   (K)   Fail or refuse to vacate or leave any premises after being requested
or ordered, whether orally or in writing, to do so, by the owner, or person in
charge thereof, or by any law enforcement agent or official; provided, however,
that this provision shall not apply to any person who is owner or tenant of the
premises involved nor to any law enforcement or other government official who
may be present thereon at that time as part of his or her official duty, nor
shall it include the wife, children, employee or tenant of the owner or
occupier.
(Prior Code, § 10.22)
CHAPTER 131: JUVENILE CURFEW
Section
   
131.01   Purpose
   
131.02   Definitions
   
131.03   Hours
   
131.04   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor
   
131.05   Exceptions
   
131.06   Duties of person legally responsible for minor
   
131.07   Duties of other persons
   
131.08   Violation
   
131.09   Defense
§ 131.01 PURPOSE.
   The curfew for minors established by this chapter is maintained for four
primary reasons:
   (A)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during the
curfew hours;
   (B)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
   (C)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the curfew
hours; and
   (D)   To help parents control their minor children.
§ 131.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor's household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or Fire Department
personnel, and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
   OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference to the master
clock used by the Police Department.
   PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT OR REFRESHMENT. Those places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants and pool halls.
   PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for providing
food, clothing, shelter and other basic necessities to the minor. The person
providing primary care or custody to the minor shall not be another minor.
   SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
§ 131.03 HOURS.
   (A)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age of 16 years
shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other
public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city time.
   (B)   Minors ages 16 years to 18 years. No minor of the ages of 16 or 17
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city
time.
§ 131.04 EFFECT ON CONTROL BY ADULT RESPONSIBLE FOR MINOR.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to give a minor the right to stay
out until the curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by
a parent, guardian or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor; nor shall this chapter be construed to diminish or impair the
control of the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.
§ 131.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply in the following situations:
   (A)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian or other adult
person having the primary care and custody of the minor;
   (B)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his or
her parent, guardian or other adult person having the primary care and custody
of the minor;
   (C)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this chapter if in
connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business, trade, profession or occupation and the minor's
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor's presence at work;
   (D)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from an
event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, school, religious institution or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor's
parent, guardian or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor;
   (E)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of interstate
travel during the hours of curfew;
   (F)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly or freedom of religion;
   (G)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
city's designated law enforcement provider about the minor's presence; and
   (H)   To a minor who is married or has been married, or is otherwise legally
emancipated.
§ 131.06 DUTIES OF PERSON LEGALLY RESPONSIBLE FOR MINOR.
    No parent, guardian or other adult having the primary care or custody of
any minor shall permit any violation of the requirements of this chapter by the
minor.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.07 DUTIES OF OTHER PERSONS.
   No person operating or in charge of any place of amusement, entertainment or
refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or remain in his or her place of
business during the hours prohibited by this chapter unless the minor is
accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person having primary
care or custody of the minor, or unless one of the exceptions to this chapter
applies.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.08 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Minors. Any minor found to be in violation of this chapter may be
adjudicated delinquent and shall be subject to the dispositional alternatives
set forth in M.S. § 260B.198, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (2)   Adults. Any adult person found to be in violation of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 131.09 DEFENSE.
   (A)   It shall be a defense to prosecution under this chapter that the
owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified the city's
designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the premises of
the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (B)   A law enforcement officer must look into whether a minor has an
affirmative defense before making an arrest.
CHAPTER 132: LURKING, LOITERING AND PROWLING
Section
   
132.01   Loitering; causing alarm
   
132.02   Loitering; intent to commit crimes
   
132.03   Loitering; obstructing public passage
   
132.04   Loitering; signs prohibiting
§ 132.01 LOITERING; CAUSING ALARM.
   (A)   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to lurk, loiter or prowl in
any place, at a time or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals,
under circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in
the vicinity.
   (B)   Circumstances causing alarm. Among the circumstances which may be
considered in determining whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the
person takes flight upon the appearance of a police officer, refuses to
identify himself or herself or endeavors to conceal himself or herself or an
object.
   (C)   Authority to detain. A police officer may stop and briefly detain a
person suspected of violating division (A) above, if the person's behavior
reasonably causes suspicion of criminal activity. The officer's reasonable
suspicion must be based on objective, articulable facts and reasonable
inferences drawn from all the circumstances surrounding the person's behavior.
   (D)   Opportunity to dispel alarm.
      (1)   Unless flight by the person or other circumstances make it
impracticable, a police officer shall, prior to any arrest for a violation of
division (A) above, allow the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm which
would otherwise be warranted by requesting him or her to identify himself or
herself and explain his or her presence and conduct. The person may identify
himself or herself by presenting any of the following:
         (a)   A state-issued identification card or driver's license
containing the person's photograph;
         (b)   An employer-issued identification card which verifies the
person's employment and includes the person's photograph;
         (c)   A current valid passport;
         (d)   A certified copy of the person's birth certificate; or
         (e)   Verification of the person's identity by another person who can
establish his or her own identify by one of the documents listed above.
      (2)   An explanation of the person's presence and conduct shall be
sufficient to dispel alarm if it shows that the person was engaging in, and
planning to continue engaging in, lawful activity consistent with his or her
actions and all the circumstances surrounding his or her behavior.
   (E)   Requisites for conviction. A person shall not be convicted of
violating division (A) above, if:
      (1)   No police officer gave the person the opportunity to dispel the
alarm created by his or her actions; or
      (2)   The finder of fact determines that the police officer should have
accepted the person's explanation as sufficient to dispel alarm.
(Prior Code, § 10.24, Subd. 1) (Ord. 161, effective 9-1-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 LOITERING; INTENT TO COMMIT CRIMES.
   It is unlawful for any person, in any public or private place, to lurk,
loiter, prowl, lie in wait or be concealed with intent to commit any act
prohibited by law.
(Prior Code, § 10.24, Subd. 2) (Ord. 161, effective 9-1-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 LOITERING; OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC PASSAGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to loiter, stand, sit or lie in or upon
any public property, private sidewalk, street, curb, crosswalk, walkway area,
parking lot, mall or other portion of private property open for public use, so
as to unreasonably block, obstruct or hinder free passage of the public.
   (B)   It is also unlawful for any person to unreasonably block, obstruct or
hinder free access to the entrance of any building or part of a building open
to the public without consent of the owner or occupant.
   (C)   No person shall be arrested or convicted under this provision until
after a police officer has informed the person that his or her action violates
this chapter and has asked the person to move to a location, if one is
available, which would not violate this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10.24, Subd. 3) (Ord. 161, effective 9-1-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04 LOITERING; SIGNS PROHIBITING.
   It is unlawful for any person to loiter, stand, sit or lie in any area where
a sign prohibiting loitering has been posted.
(Prior Code, § 10.24, Subd. 4) (Ord. 161, effective 9-1-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: PUBLIC INDECENCY
Section
   
133.01   Purpose
   
133.02   Findings
   
133.03   Definitions
   
133.04   Public indecency prohibited
   
133.05   Exclusion
§ 133.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prohibit public indecency in order to
deter criminal activity, to promote societal order and public health and to
protect children.
(Prior Code, § 10.25, Subd. 1) (Ord. 195, effective 11-27-1998)
§ 133.02 FINDINGS.
   The Council makes the following findings regarding the need to prohibit
public indecency.
   (A)   Public indecency can increase the incidence of criminal activity,
including but not limited to prostitution, disorderly conduct and sexual
assault.
   (B)   Public indecency can expose children to an unhealthy and nurtureless
environment.
   (C)   Public indecency can disrupt the orderly operation of public events
and public accommodations, thereby fostering societal disorder.
   (D)   Public indecency can present health concerns in places of public
accommodation and other public settings.
(Prior Code, § 10.25, Subd. 2) (Ord. 195, effective 11-27-1998)
§ 133.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUDITY.
      (1)   The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus, male genitals, female
genitals or female breast; or
      (2)   A state of dress which fails to opaquely cover a human buttock,
anus, male genitals, female genitals or areola of the female breast.
   PERSON. A natural person 12 years of age or older, including employees or
agents of a public accommodation.
   PUBLIC PLACE.
      (1)   Any location frequented by the public, or where the public is
present or likely to be present, or where a person may reasonably be expected
to be observed by members of the public.
      (2)   PUBLIC PLACES include, but are not limited to, streets, sidewalks,
parks, beaches, business and commercial establishments (whether for profit or
not-for-profit and whether open to the public at large or where entrance is
limited by a cover charge or membership requirement), bottle clubs, hotels,
motels, restaurants, night clubs, country clubs, cabarets and meeting
facilities utilized by any religious, social, fraternal or similar
organizations.
      (3)   Premises used solely as a private residence whether permanent or
temporary in nature shall not be deemed a PUBLIC PLACE.
      (4)   PUBLIC PLACE shall not include enclosed single sex public
restrooms, enclosed single sex motel rooms and hotel rooms designed and
intended for sleeping accommodations, doctor's offices, portions of hospitals
and similar places in which nudity or exposure is necessarily and customarily
expected outside of the home and the sphere of privacy constitutionally
protected therein; nor shall it include a person appearing in a state of nudity
in a modeling class operated by:
         (a)   A proprietary school, licensed by the state; a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
         (b)   A private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation or an accredited
private college.
(Prior Code, § 10.25, Subd. 3) (Ord. 195, effective 11-27-1998)
§ 133.04 PUBLIC INDECENCY PROHIBITED.
   A person who knowingly or intentionally in a public setting or place commits
public indecency is guilty of a misdemeanor under state law if he or she:
   (A)   Appears in a state of nudity;
   (B)   Fondles the genitals of himself or herself; or
   (C)   Fondles the genitals of another person.
(Prior Code, § 10.25, Subd. 4) (Ord. 195, effective 11-27-1998)
§ 133.05 EXCLUSION.
   The provisions of §
133.04(A) shall not apply to any theatrical production performed in a theater
by a professional or amateur theatrical or musical company which has serious
artistic merit.
(Prior Code, § 10.25, Subd. 5) (Ord. 195, effective 11-27-1998)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
         
151.   SUBDIVISIONS
         
152.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Building Code adopted
   
150.002   Building and utility permits
   
150.003   Permit fees
   
150.004   Inspection
Drainage and Erosion Control
   
150.015   Scaled site plan
   
150.016   Sketch plan
   
150.017   Erosion control
Special Requirements for Moving Buildings
   
150.030   Permit required
   
150.031   Application
   
150.032   Exemption from public hearing
   
150.033   Permit and fee
   
150.034   General standards
   
150.035   Duties of Building Official
   
150.036   Issuance
Towers and Antennas
   
150.050   Definitions
   
150.051   Permits
   
150.052   Inspections
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.065   Definition and abatement
   
150.066   Notice to owner
   
150.067   Posting of signs
   
150.068   Right to demolish
   
150.069   Costs
   
150.070   Unlawful act
Underground Utility Construction
   
150.085   Underground construction required
   
150.086   Exceptions to applications
   
150.087   Repair and maintenance of existing installations
   
150.088   Developer responsibility
   
150.089   Placement
Record Drawing
   
150.100   Required
Installation and Use of Outdoor Furnaces
   
150.115   Purpose and intent
   
150.116   Definitions
   
150.117   Requirements
   
150.118   Nonconforming use
   
150.119   Enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Code adopted by reference. The State Building Code, as adopted by the
Commissioner of Labor and Industry pursuant to M.S. §§ 326B.101 to 326B.194, as
it may be amended from time to time, including all of the amendments, rules and
regulations established, adopted and published from time to time by the State
Commissioner of Labor and Industry, through the Building Codes and Standards
Unit, is hereby adopted by reference with the exception of the optional
chapters, unless specifically adopted in this section. The State Building Code
is hereby incorporated in this subchapter as if fully set out herein.
   (B)   Application, administration and enforcement. The application,
administration and enforcement of the code shall be in accordance with the
State Building Code. The code shall be enforced within the extraterritorial
limits permitted by M.S. § 326B.121, as it may be amended from time to time,
when so established by this section. The code enforcement agency of this
municipality is called the Building Department. This code shall be enforced by
the State Certified Building Official designated by this municipality to
administer the code (M.S. § 326B.133, as it may be amended from time to time).
   (C)   Permits and fees. The issuance of permits and the collection of fees
shall be as authorized in M.S. § 326B.121, as it may be amended from time to
time. Permit fees shall be assessed for work governed by this code in
accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the municipality. In addition, a
surcharge fee shall be collected on all permits issued for work governed by
this code in accordance with M.S. § 326B.148, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (D)   Violations and penalties. A violation of the code is a misdemeanor
(M.S. § 326B.845, as it may be amended from time to time).
   (E)   Building Code optional chapters.
      (1)   The State Building Code, established pursuant to M.S. Chapter
16B.59 to 16B.75, as they may be amended from time to time, allows the
municipality to adopt by reference and enforce certain optional chapters of the
most current edition of the State Building Code.
      (2)   The following optional provisions identified in the most current
edition of the State Building Code are hereby adopted and incorporated as part
of the Building Code for this municipality:
         (a)   Chapter 1335, Floodproofing Regulations, parts 1335.0600 to
1335.1200;
         (b)   Grading, appendix Chapter J of the 2006 International Building
Code; and
         (c)   Minn. Rules Chapter 7080, Individual Sewage Treatment Systems.
(Prior Code, § 4.01) (Ord. 275, effective 8-2-2007)
§ 150.002 BUILDING AND UTILITY PERMITS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to erect, construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish any building or structure,
or any part or portion thereof, including, but not limited to, the plumbing,
electrical, ventilating, heating or air conditioning systems therein, or cause
the same to be done, without first obtaining a separate building or mechanical
permit for each building, structure or mechanical components from the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to install, alter, repair or extend any
public or private water or sewer system, or individual sewage disposal system
or holding tank, without first obtaining a permit therefor from the city.
Provided, that this division shall not apply to routine cleaning of sewerage or
building drains, and provided, further, that upon a showing that a real
emergency exists on a weekend or holiday, the Public Works Director or his or
her designate may waive the permit requirement, but any waiver shall be subject
to inspection before holes or ditches are filled.
(Prior Code, § 4.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.003 PERMIT FEES.
   Fees for permits under this subchapter, which may include a surcharge, shall
be determined by the Council and fixed by its resolution, a copy of which shall
be in the office of the City Administrator and uniformly enforced.
(Prior Code, § 4.04)
§ 150.004 INSPECTION.
   The Public Works Director or other designated official shall make an
inspection or inspections as are necessary to determine compliance with this
section. No part of the system shall be covered until it has been inspected and
accepted by the Public Works Director. It shall be the responsibility of the
applicant for the permit to notify the Public Works Director that the job is
ready for inspection or reinspection, and it shall be the duty of the Public
Works Director to make the indicated inspection within 24 hours after notice
has been given. It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of the property
to give the Public Works Director free access to the property at reasonable
times for the purpose of making inspections. Upon satisfactory completion and
final inspection of the system, the Public Works Director shall issue to the
applicant a certificate of approval. If upon inspection the Public Works
Director discovers that any part of the system is not constructed in accordance
with the minimum standards provided in this subchapter, he or she shall give
the applicant written notification describing the defects. The applicant shall
pay an additional fee of $10 for each reinspection that is necessary. The
applicant shall be responsible for the correction or elimination of all defects
and no system shall be placed or replaced in service until all defects have
been corrected or eliminated.
(Prior Code, § 4.05) (Ord. 24, effective 12-10-1982)
DRAINAGE AND EROSION CONTROL
§ 150.015 SCALED SITE PLAN.
   Prior to issuance of a building permit, the Building Official shall require
the applicant to submit a scaled site plan including the following information:
   (A)   Scale of drawing and north arrow;
   (B)   Legal description;
   (C)   Property boundaries;
   (D)   Existing structures;
   (E)   Proposed structures;
   (F)   Indication of direction of surface water drainage by arrows; and
   (G)   Erosion control measures.
(Prior Code, § 4.06, Subd. 1) (Ord. 209, effective 10-20-2000)
§ 150.016 SKETCH PLAN.
   The Building Official may waive the requirement of a scaled site plan in
favor of a sketch plan if the information required by §
150.015(A) through (G) can be adequately determined on the sketch plan.
(Prior Code, § 4.06, Subd. 2) (Ord. 209, effective 10-20-2000)
§ 150.017 EROSION CONTROL.
   (A)   Prior to the start of any excavation for the construction of any
structure, the owner or the builder must have in place and functional an
approved method of erosion control. All required erosion and siltation control
measures shall conform to the State Pollution Control Agency's "Best Management
Practices."
   (B)   No footing inspection will be conducted until the erosion control is
in place and functional.
   (C)   The erosion control must be maintained, to the satisfaction of the
Building Official, throughout the construction process and until new turf is
established. If the erosion control is not maintained, the city may withhold
additional inspections or the certificate of occupancy.
   (D)   It is unlawful to fail to install or maintain erosion control.
   (E)   Driveways must be installed on all construction sites within 24 hours
of backfilling. Driveways shall be constructed with a minimum depth of six
inches of crushed rock and a minimum width of 18 feet. Driveways shall extend
from the curb to the structure. The Building Official may authorize other
materials which would provide the same access to the structure. If the driveway
is not installed within the time period provided, a stop work order will be
issued until the driveway is installed.
   (F)   The portion of a lot adjoining a street shall be sodded from the back
of the curb or the roadside edge to three feet from the curb or roadside edge.
Where the lot slope exceeds 8%, areas within 15 feet of the curb or roadside
edge shall be sodded. Any portion of a lot adjoining a drainage easement shall
be sodded in the same manner as is required for the portion of the lot
adjoining a street. The remaining area of the lot shall, at a minimum, be
seeded.
   (G)   All required silt fences must be maintained throughout the
construction period until new vegetation is established.
   (H)   Streets shall be cleaned whenever the tracking of sediments occurs.
Streets must be cleaned before sites are left idle for weekends or holidays.
Streets that are not cleaned are a nuisance subject to immediate abatement. If
the streets are not cleaned as required herein, the city will arrange for a
private contractor to clean streets. The costs of the cleaning shall be payable
first from the surety on file with the city, and then from the contractor,
subcontractors and owner.
   (I)   A surety for compliance with these erosion control requirements is
required to be submitted with the building permit application or development
agreement. The amount of the surety shall be periodically set by resolution of
the Council. If the requirements of this division are not met, the surety shall
be used to remedy any defect and bring the parcel into compliance. The surety
shall be released upon issuance of the final certificate of occupancy, less any
amounts retained to reimburse the city for costs incurred on behalf of the
owner, contractor or subcontractor in completing, correcting or obtaining
compliance with required erosion control measures.
(Prior Code, § 4.06, Subd. 3) (Ord. 209, effective 10-20-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 150.030 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to move, remove, raise or hold up any building
within the limits of the city without first obtaining a permit from the
Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 4.10, Subd. 1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.031 APPLICATION.
   (A)   A person seeking issuance of a permit shall file an application with
the Building Inspector, upon forms provided by the Building Inspector. The
application shall include the following:
      (1)   Name and address of the proposed mover;
      (2)   Approximate size and weight of the structure or building proposed
to be moved;
      (3)   Proposed route to be followed including dates and times of moving;
      (4)   A certified property search of property owners within 350 feet of
the new location;
      (5)   Evidence that all real estate taxes and special assessments against
the building and land from which it is to be removed are paid in full;
      (6)   A written statement, bill of sale or other written evidence that
the applicant is entitled to move the building;
      (7)   Written evidence of arrangements with all public utility companies
whose wires, lamps or poles are required to be removed, for the removal thereof
by the applicant;
      (8)   Written evidence that applicant has complied with all provisions of
M.S. § 221.81, as it may be amended from time to time, building moving
regulations; and
      (9)   If the building is to be located within the city after its
movement, a survey by a licensed surveyor or a site plan acceptable to the
city, of the land to which the building is to be moved, including the location
of the building in relation to the boundaries of the land.
   (B)   The Council or the Planning Commission must conduct a hearing on the
application preceded by at least ten days' mailed notice to all property owners
within 350 feet of the site where it is proposed to relocate the building.
Failure to send the notice or defects in the notice shall not invalidate the
proceeding, provided a bona fide attempt to comply has been made.
   (C)   If the hearing is before the Planning Commission, the Planning
Commission must make a recommendation to the Council. The Council must take
action on the application within 60 days of the Planning Commission's
recommendation or if the Council holds the hearing within 60 days of the close
of the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 4.10, Subd. 2) (Ord. 116, effective 7-18-1991; Ord. 117,
effective 9-13-1991)
§ 150.032 EXEMPTION FROM PUBLIC HEARING.
   No public hearing is required for applications to move accessory buildings
consisting of less than 728 square feet if the Planning Commission finds that
all the requirements of §
150.034 hereof are met. Accessory building has the meaning ascribed to it in §
152.021.
(Prior Code, § 4.10, Subd. 2A) (Ord. 116, effective 7-18-1991)
§ 150.033 PERMIT AND FEE.
   (A)   The moving permit must state the date or dates of moving, hours,
routing, movement and parking. Permits will be issued only for moving buildings
by building movers licensed by the state, unless the permit is for:
      (1)   Moving manufactured or modular homes;
      (2)   Farmers moving their own farm buildings; or
      (3)   Persons moving buildings which are less than 16 feet wide by 20
feet long.
   (B)   The permit fee shall be established by resolution of the Council. The
permit fees shall be paid in advance of issuance.
(Prior Code, § 4.10, Subd. 3) (Ord. 116, effective 7-18-1991; Ord. 117,
effective 9-13-1991)
§ 150.034 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   All used buildings moved into or within the city shall comply with the
following:
   (A)   The Uniform Building Code;
   (B)   The building is well maintained and in a good state of repair;
   (C)   The building will not materially depreciate surrounding property
values;
   (D)   Will be consistent with the objectives of the city's Comprehensive
Plan;
   (E)   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained so as to be
compatible in appearance with the existing or intended character of the general
vicinity and will not change the essential character of that area;
   (F)   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or planned neighboring
uses or adversely affect the public health, safety or general welfare;
   (G)   Will not create excessive requirements for public facilities and
services and will not be detrimental to the economic welfare of the community;
and
   (H)   
Chapter 152 of the city code.
(Prior Code, § 4.10, Subd. 4) (Ord. 116, effective 7-18-1991)
§ 150.035 DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   Upon receipt of the application accompanied by the fee, and the statement
and information required by §
150.031 hereof, the Building Official must review the application and make an
investigation as deemed appropriate. The Building Official must also obtain the
recommendations of the Chief of Police and Public Works Director with respect
to the streets and roads on which the building may be moved to assure the
greatest degree of safety to persons and property and to minimize congestion on
public streets. Upon completion of the review and investigation, the Building
Official must make a report to the Council.
(Prior Code, § 4.10, Subd. 5) (Ord. 116, effective 7-18-1991)
§ 150.036 ISSUANCE.
   The Council must approve the permit subject to reasonable conditions as may
be appropriate and the standards in §
150.034 hereof. If the building does not satisfy the requirements for a permit,
the Council may issue a permit on condition that the building is brought into
compliance within a reasonable period of time as determined by the Council. The
Council may further condition approval upon the applicant furnishing a letter
of credit satisfactory to the city sufficient to cover the necessary work to
bring the building into compliance.
(Prior Code, § 4.10, Subd. 6) (Ord. 116, effective 7-18-1991)
TOWERS AND ANTENNAS
§ 150.050 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. Any structure or device used for the purpose of collecting or
transmitting electromagnetic waves, including, but not limited to, directional
antennas, such as panels, microwave dishes and satellite dishes and omni-
directional antennas, such as whip antennas.
   TOWER. Any ground or roof mounted pole, spire, structure or combination
thereof taller than 15 feet, including supporting lines, cables, wires, braces
and masts, intended primarily for the purpose of mounting an antenna,
meteorological device or similar apparatus above grade.
(Prior Code, § 4.12, Subd. 1) (Ord. 212, effective 4-27-2001)
§ 150.051 PERMITS.
   (A)   Generally. It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
erect, construct, place or re-erect, replace or make structural repairs to any
tower without first making application for and securing a building permit as
provided in this chapter, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (B)   Report. The applicant shall provide a report from a qualified and
licensed professional engineer which demonstrates the tower's compliance with
all applicable structural and electrical standards, including but not limited
to the State Building Code, and includes the engineer's certification.
   (C)   Permits. Permits are not required for the following:
      (1)   Adjustment, repair or replacement of existing antennas or the
elements of an antenna array affixed to a tower or antenna, provided that
adjustment or replacement does not reduce the safety factor;
      (2)   Routine maintenance (e.g., painting) and other nonstructural
related repairs of towers; and
      (3)   Antennas and/or towers erected temporarily for test purposes, for
emergency communication or for broadcast remote pick-up operations, provided
that all requirements of division (E) below are met, with the exception of
division (E)(8) below (regarding corrosive material) which is waived. Temporary
antennas shall be removed within 72 hours following installation, unless
additional time is approved by the Chief Building Official. Temporary towers
erected for emergency purposes may be exempt from setback requirements of this
chapter as determined by the Chief Building Official.
   (D)   Fee. The fee to be paid is that prescribed under Council resolution.
   (E)   Construction requirements. All antennas and towers erected,
constructed or located within the city, including all necessary wiring, shall
comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   All applicable provisions of the city code;
      (2)   Towers and their antennas shall be certified by a qualified and
licensed professional engineer to conform with the latest structural standards
and wind loading requirements of the Uniform Building Code and the electronics
industry association and all other applicable reviewing agencies;
      (3)   With the exception of necessary electric and telephone service and
connection lines approved by the city, no part of any antenna or tower nor any
lines, cable, equipment or wires or braces in connection with either shall at
any time extend across or over any part of the right-of-way, public street,
highway, sidewalk or property line;
      (4)   Towers and their antennas shall be designed to conform with
accepted electrical engineering methods and practices and to comply with the
provisions of the National Electrical Code;
      (5)   All towers shall be constructed to conform with the requirements of
the Occupational Safety and Health Administration;
      (6)   All towers shall be reasonably protected against unauthorized
climbing;
      (7)   Antennas and towers may only be erected in accordance with
applicable zoning restrictions;
      (8)   Towers shall be constructed of corrosive resistant metal material;
and
      (9)   Persons responsible for all communication towers and their antennas
shall maintain a general liability insurance policy that provides coverage from
any damage to property or injuries to persons caused by collapse of the tower.
The insurance policy shall provide coverage on an occurrence basis in an amount
no less than $1,000,000.
(Prior Code, § 4.12, Subd. 2) (Ord. 212, effective 4-27-2001)
§ 150.052 INSPECTIONS.
   All towers may be inspected at least once each year by an official of the
city to determine compliance with original construction standards. Deviations
from original design for which a permit is obtained constitutes a violation of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.12, Subd. 3) (Ord. 212, effective 4-27-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.065 DEFINITION AND ABATEMENT.
   All buildings or structures which are structurally unsafe or not provided
with adequate egress, or which constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise
dangerous to human life, or which in relation to existing use constitute a
hazard to safety or health or public welfare, by reason of inadequate
maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, fire hazard or abandonment, as
specified in the State Building Code, another provision of the city code, or
any other law, are, for the purpose of this section, unsafe buildings. All
unsafe buildings are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated
by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal, in accordance with the
procedure specified herein.
(Prior Code, § 4.20, Subd. 1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.066 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   The Building Inspector shall examine or cause to be examined every building
or structure or portion thereof reported as dangerous or damaged and, if it is
found to be an unsafe building, the Building Inspector shall give to the owner
of the building or structure written notice stating the defects therein. This
notice may require the owner or person in charge of the building or premises,
within 48 hours, to commence either the required repairs or improvements or
demolition and removal of the building or structure or portions thereof, and
all work shall be completed within 90 days from the date of notice, unless
otherwise stipulated by the Building Inspector. If necessary, the notice also
shall require the building, structure or portion thereof to be vacated
forthwith and not reoccupied until the required repairs and improvements are
completed, inspected and approved by the Building Inspector. Proper service of
the notice shall be by personal service upon the owner of record, if he or she
shall be found within the city. If he or she is not found therein, the service
may be made upon the owner by registered mail or certified mail, provided, that
if the notice is by registered mail or certified mail, the designated period
within which the owner or person in charge is required to comply with the order
of the Building Inspector shall begin as of the date of delivery shown upon the
return receipt.
(Prior Code, § 4.20, Subd. 2)
§ 150.067 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall cause to be posted at each entrance to
the building a notice to read:
   DO NOT ENTER, UNSAFE TO OCCUPY. Building Department City of Cannon Falls.
   (B)   (1)   The notice shall remain posted until the required repairs,
demolition or removal are completed.
      (2)   The notice shall not be removed without written permission of the
Building Inspector and no person shall enter the building except for the
purpose of making the required repairs or of demolishing the building.
(Prior Code, § 4.20, Subd. 3)
§ 150.068 RIGHT TO DEMOLISH.
   In case the owner shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with the notice to
repair, rehabilitate or to demolish and remove the building or structure or
portion thereof, the Council may order the owner of the building prosecuted as
a violator of the provisions of this section and may order the Building
Inspector to proceed with the work specified in the notice. A statement of the
cost of the work shall be transmitted to the Council, who shall cause the same
to be paid and levied as a special assessment against the property.
(Prior Code, § 4.20, Subd. 4)
§ 150.069 COSTS.
   Costs incurred under §
150.068 shall be paid out of the treasury. The costs shall be charged to the
owner of the premises involved as a special assessment on the land on which the
building or structure is located, and shall be collected in the manner provided
for special assessments.
(Prior Code, § 4.20, Subd. 5)
§ 150.070 UNLAWFUL ACT.
   It is unlawful for the owner of any property to suffer or permit an unsafe
building as defined herein to remain thereon.
(Prior Code, § 4.20, Subd. 6) Penalty, see §
10.99
UNDERGROUND UTILITY CONSTRUCTION
§ 150.085 UNDERGROUND CONSTRUCTION REQUIRED.
   All utility lines hereafter installed, constructed or otherwise placed
within the city for electric, telephone, TV cable or other like or similar
services to serve residential, commercial and industrial customers in newly
platted areas, and which utilize metallic conductors to carry electric current,
whether owned, installed or constructed by the supplier, consumer or any party,
shall be installed and placed underground, subject only to the exceptions
hereinafter stated; however, above-ground placement, construction, modification
or replacement of meters, gauges, transformers, street lighting and service
connection pedestals shall be allowed. The requirements of this section shall
apply equally outside of the corporate limits of the city coincident with city
jurisdiction of platting, subdivision regulation or comprehensive planning as
may now or in the future be allowed by law. All companies installing and
operating lines such as those described herein shall be referred to as utility
companies for purposes of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.30, Subd. 1)
§ 150.086 EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICATIONS.
   The following exceptions to the strict applicability of this subchapter
shall be allowed upon the conditions stated.
   (A)   Transmission lines. Above-ground placement, construction, modification
or replacement of those lines commonly referred to as "high voltage
transmission lines" upon which the conductor's normal operating voltage equals
or exceeds 23,000 volts (phase to phase) shall be allowed; provided, however,
that 60 days prior to commencement of construction of a project, the city shall
be furnished notice of the proposed project and, upon request, the utility
company involved shall furnish any relevant information regarding the project
to the city. This section shall not be construed as waiving the requirements of
any other ordinance or regulation of the city as the same may apply to any
proposed project.
   (B)   Technical and economic feasibility. Above-ground placement,
construction, modification or replacement of lines shall be allowed in
residential, commercial and industrial areas where the Council, following
consideration and recommendation by the Planning Commission, finds that:
      (1)   Underground placement would place an undue financial burden upon
the landowner or the utility company or deprive the landowner of the
preservation and enjoyment of substantial property rights; or
      (2)   Underground placement is impractical or not technically feasible
due to topographical, subsoil or other existing conditions which adversely
affect underground utility placement.
   (C)   Temporary service. Above-ground placement of temporary service lines
shall only be allowed:
      (1)   During the new construction of any project for a period not to
exceed 24 months;
      (2)   During any emergency to safeguard lives or property within the
city; or
      (3)   For a period of not more than seven months when soil conditions
make excavation impractical.
(Prior Code, § 4.30, Subd. 2)
§ 150.087 REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE OF EXISTING INSTALLATIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent repair,
maintenance, replacement or modification of existing overhead utility lines.
(Prior Code, § 4.30, Subd. 3)
§ 150.088 DEVELOPER RESPONSIBILITY.
   All owners, platters or developers are responsible for complying with the
requirements of this subchapter, and prior to the final approval of any plat or
development plan, shall submit to the Planning Commission written instruments
from the appropriate utility companies showing that all necessary arrangements
with the companies for installation of the utilities have been made.
(Prior Code, § 4.30, Subd. 4)
§ 150.089 PLACEMENT.
   (A)   All utility lines shall be placed within appropriate easements or
dedicated public ways so as to cause minimum conflict with other underground
services. Whenever feasible, all utilities shall be placed within the same
trench.
   (B)   All utility companies shall submit annually to the Building Inspector
current maps revealing locations of underground installations, whether the
installations were installed prior to the effective date of this subchapter or
hereafter.
(Prior Code, § 4.30, Subd. 5)
RECORD DRAWING
§ 150.100 REQUIRED.
   (A)   Reproducible "as built drawings" of all required improvements shall be
furnished to the city by the licensed professional engineer responsible for the
installation of the public improvements.
   (B)   The "as built drawings" shall comply with the city's record drawing
requirements and shall be certified to be true and accurate by the licensed
professional engineer responsible for the installation of the public
improvements.
(Prior Code, § 4.31)
INSTALLATION AND USE OF OUTDOOR FURNACES
§ 150.115 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to establish and impose restrictions
upon the construction, installation and operation of outdoor furnaces within
the limits of the city for the purpose of securing and promoting the public
health, safety, comfort, convenience and welfare of the city and its
inhabitants. It is generally recognized that the types of fuel used and the
scale and duration of the burning by these furnaces can create noxious and
hazardous smoke, soot, fumes, odors, air pollution, particles and other
products of combustion that can be detrimental to citizens' health, and can
deprive neighboring residents of the enjoyment of their property or premises.
(Ord. 269, passed 1-4-2007)
§ 150.116 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
meaning of words and terms used in this subchapter but not defined in this
section usage shall be determined in the following order: as defined in §
152.021 of the city code, as defined elsewhere in the city code, as defined in
the state statutes, the commonly used and accepted meaning.
   OUTDOOR FURNACE. Any equipment, device or apparatus, or any part thereof,
which is installed, affixed or situated outdoors for the primary purpose of
combustion fuel to produce heat or energy used as a component of a heating
system providing heat for any interior space or water source. It is the intent
of this subchapter to regulate only exterior freestanding solid fuel-fired
devices and solid fuel-fired devices which are contained within a structure
primarily designed or used to house the solid fuel device.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, company or other
association.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. An act or failure to perform a legal duty which results in
a violation of any of the acts described within this subchapter.
   SOLID FUEL-FIRED DEVICE. A device designed for solid fuel combustion. This
definition shall not include devices such as fuel-fired stoves, fireplaces,
solid fuel-fired cooking stoves and combination fuel furnaces or boilers which
burn solid fuel which are located within the confines of a residence or garage.
SOLID FUEL-FIRED HEATING DEVICE does not include natural gas-fired fireplace
logs.
   STACKS or CHIMNEYS. Any vertical structure, whether or not incorporated into
a building, enclosing a flue or flues that carry off smoke or exhaust from a
solid fuel-fired heating device or the part of a structure extending above a
roof.
(Ord. 269, passed 1-4-2007)
§ 150.117 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All solid fuel-fired devices/outdoor furnaces operated or installed
within the city limits are required to meet the safety and emissions standards
required by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Underwriters
Laboratories (UL) listing.
   (B)   All solid fuel-fired devices/outdoor furnaces operated or installed
within the city limits are subject to regulation as public nuisances as
described in this subchapter.
   (C)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities, are declared a public nuisance and are hereby made subject to
regulation and control by a properly designated authority.
   (D)   Every solid fuel-fired device/outdoor furnace shall have a minimum
chimney stack height of 20 feet from ground level and a minimum of two feet
above the roof line of the highest structure within 200 feet. A freestanding
outdoor furnace must be setback a minimum of 40 feet from all property lines
and a minimum of ten feet from any principal or accessory structure.
Construction of all stacks or chimneys must be of masonry or insulated metal.
   (E)   All stacks or chimneys on solid fuel-fired devices/outdoor furnaces
must be so constructed to withstand wind and snow loads per the current State
Building Code.
   (F)   An outdoor furnace shall not be used between April 15 and October 15
of each year.
(Ord. 269, passed 1-4-2007)
§ 150.118 NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   Continuation of nonconforming uses. The lawful use of any freestanding
outdoor furnace existing at the time of the effective date of this subchapter
may be continued, although the use may not conform to the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Extension or enlargement. No pre-existing, nonconforming freestanding
outdoor furnace shall hereafter be extended, enlarged or expanded.
   (C)   Abandonment and discontinuance. Any pre-existing, nonconforming,
freestanding solid fuel-fired device/outdoor furnace which is abandoned or not
used for a period of 12 consecutive months shall not be permitted to be
reestablished as a nonconforming use, cannot be used and must be immediately
removed by the property owner from the subject premises. If the property owner
fails to remove the freestanding furnace by the end of 12 months, the city
shall give written notice by certified mail, personal service or posting to the
property owner upon which the freestanding furnace is located that the person
shall remove the same within 15 days of the notice.
   (D)   Termination. At the time as the useful life of an existing,
nonconforming, freestanding solid fuel-fired device/outdoor furnace has elapsed
or would need to be repaired to function properly, the unit cannot be replaced
and must be removed from the property within 15 days.
(Ord. 269, passed 1-4-2007)
§ 150.119 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any violation of this subchapter shall be considered a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any violation of this subchapter may be enjoined as public nuisance.
(Ord. 269, passed 1-4-2007)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
Title and Application
   
151.001   Title
   
151.002   Purpose
   
151.003   Jurisdiction
   
151.004   Platting authority
   
151.005   Administration
   
151.006   Amendments
   
151.007   Conditions for recording
   
151.008   Policy
   
151.009   Application of rules
   
151.010   Supremacy
   
151.011   Definitions
General Provisions
   
151.025   Compliance with official controls
   
151.026   Fees
   
151.027   Building permits
   
151.028   Premature subdivision
   
151.029   Denial of plat
   
151.030   Registered land surveys
   
151.031   Metes and bounds
   
151.032   Planned unit development (PUD)
Administrative Subdivisions
   
151.045   General provisions
   
151.046   Qualification
   
151.047   Information required
   
151.048   Filing and review of application
   
151.049   Recording
Sketch Plan
   
151.060   General provisions
   
151.061   Information required for sketch plan
   
151.062   Filing and review of application; procedure
   
151.063   Determination of environmental review requirements
Preliminary Plat
   
151.075   General provisions
   
151.076   Information required for preliminary plat
   
151.077   Filing and review of application; procedure
Final Plat
   
151.090   Information required for final plat
   
151.091   Filing and review of application
   
151.092   Form and content
   
151.093   Recording
   
151.094   As-built plans
Design Standards
   
151.105   Conformity with the Comprehensive Plan and zoning regulations
   
151.106   Land requirements
   
151.107   Blocks
   
151.108   Lots
   
151.109   Streets and alleys
   
151.110   Sidewalks and trails
   
151.111   Easements
   
151.112   Public utilities
   
151.113   Stormwater management
   
151.114   Erosion and sediment control
   
151.115   Protected areas
   
151.116   Signs
Public Land Dedication
   
151.130   Public sites and open spaces (park land dedication)
Tree Preservation
   
151.145   Purpose
   
151.146   Scope of application
   
151.147   Tree preservation for subdivisions
   
151.148   Custom graded lots/home builders requirements
   
151.149   Tree placement
   
151.150   Review process
   
151.151   Removal of diseased trees required
   
151.152   Compliance with plan
Improvements
   
151.165   Required public improvements
Enforcement
   
151.180   Violations
   
151.181   Injunction
TITLE AND APPLICATION
§ 151.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Cannon Falls Subdivision Chapter, and
will be referred to herein as the chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-1) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City Council being aware of the responsibility which it has for
the adoption of ordinances, rules and regulations designed for the protection
of health, safety and general welfare of this community, deems it necessary to
provide regulations for platting and subdividing of property within the city.
Each new subdivision shall become a permanent neighborhood in the community.
Piecemeal planning of the subdivisions, without correlation to the
Comprehensive Plan, can bring a disconnected patchwork of plats, poor
circulation and an undesirable atmosphere.
   (B)   In order that new subdivisions will contribute toward an attractive,
orderly, stable and wholesome community environment, adequate municipal
services and efficient movement of traffic, all subdivisions platted within the
jurisdiction of the city after the adoption of this chapter shall, in all
respects, fully comply with the regulations set forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-2) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.003 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all lands within the
incorporated boundaries of the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-3) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.004 PLATTING AUTHORITY.
   The City Council shall serve as the platting authority of the incorporated
areas of the city in accordance with M.S. Chapter 462.358, as it may be amended
from time to time, and does hereby order that all subdivisions hereafter
planned within the limits of the city shall, in all respects, fully comply with
the regulations hereinafter set forth. No plat or replat shall be filed or
accepted for filing by the office of the County Recorder unless adopted by the
affirmative vote of the majority of the members of the City Council approving
the plat or replat.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-4) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.005 ADMINISTRATION.
   This chapter shall be administered by the Zoning Administrator who is
appointed by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-5) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.006 AMENDMENTS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be amended by the city following a
legally advertised public hearing before the Planning Commission and in
accordance with the law, including the rules and regulations of any applicable
state or federal agency.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-6) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.007 CONDITIONS FOR RECORDING.
   No plat or subdivision shall be entitled to record in the County Recorder's
office or have any validity until the plat thereof has been prepared, approved
and acknowledged in the manner prescribed by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-7) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.008 POLICY.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city to consider the
subdivision of land and the subsequent development of the plat as subject to
the control of the city pursuant to the City Comprehensive Plan for the
orderly, planned, efficient and economical development of the city.
   (B)   Land to be subdivided shall be of the character that it can be used
safely for building purposes without danger to health from fire, flood or other
menace. Land shall not be subdivided unless proper provisions have been made
for drainage, stormwater management, wetland protection, potable water,
domestic wastewater, streets and capital improvements such as parks, trails,
sidewalks, recreation facilities, transportation facilities, stormwater
improvements and any other necessary improvements.
   (C)   The existing and proposed public improvements shall conform to and be
properly related to the Comprehensive Plan, Comprehensive Sanitary Sewer Plan,
Comprehensive Water Plan, Stormwater Management Plan, Comprehensive Parks and
Trail Plan and Capital Improvement Plan.
   (D)   The provisions of this chapter are in addition to and not in
replacement of provisions of all Building Codes and the zoning regulations. Any
provision of the Building Code and zoning regulations shall remain in full
force and effect except as may be contradictory to the provisions hereof. Where
any provision conflicts with other provision, the most restrictive provision
shall be applied.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-8) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.009 APPLICATION OF RULES.
   The language contained in this chapter shall be interpreted in accordance
with the following rules of construction as applicable.
   (A)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural the singular.
   (B)   The present includes the past and future tenses, and the future tense
includes the present tense.
   (C)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
   (D)   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in this chapter,
its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definition.
   (E)   In the event of conflicting provisions, the more restrictive shall
apply.
   (F)   The word SHALL is always mandatory and not discretionary.
   (G)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirement for the promotion of
health, safety and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-9) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.010 SUPREMACY.
   When any condition imposed by a provision of this chapter on the use of land
or building or on the bulk of buildings is either more restrictive or less
restrictive than similar conditions imposed by any provision of any other city
ordinance or regulation, the more restrictive conditions shall prevail. This
chapter is not intended to abrogate any easements, restrictions or covenants
relating to the use of land within the city by private declaration or
agreement, but where the provisions of this chapter are more restrictive than
any easement, restriction or covenant, or the provision of any private
agreement, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-11) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.011 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision containing not more than two
lots fronting on an improved public street, not involving the dedication and/or
construction of any new street or road, the extension of municipal facilities
or the creation of any public improvements.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
   APPLICANT. The owner, his or her agent or person having legal control in
land for which the provisions of this chapter are being considered or reviewed.
   ATTORNEY. The City Attorney.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). Best management practices as described in
current State Pollution Control Agency's manual and other sources for
stormwater management as approved by the city.
   BLOCK. The property abutting on one side of a street and lying between the
two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets or railroad right-of-way or
unsubdivided acreage.
   BOULEVARD. The portion of the street right-of-way between the curb line or
edge of pavement and the property line.
   BOUNDARY LINES. Lines indicating the bounds or limits of any tract or parcel
of land.
   BUFFER STRIP. A linear strip of land along a lake, wetland, river, creek or
stormwater ponding area where vegetation is established and maintained as a
means to slow the velocity of stormwater drainage and to filter sediment and
pollutants from the stormwater.
   BUFFER YARD. A strip of land utilized to screen or partially screen a use or
property from another use or property or to shield or mitigate noise, lights or
other impacts.
   BUILD OUT PLAN (GHOST PLAT). A subdivision or resubdivision concept plan
illustrating possible future lot layout, street networks and utility systems
for oversized lots, outlots or undeveloped land within or adjoining a
preliminary plat.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
   BUILDABLE LAND. Contiguous land area occurring within the property lines of
a parcel of lot excluding drainageways, wetlands, watercourses, park land, road
rights-of-way and slopes in excess of 18%.
   BUILDING LINE. Also referred to as a SETBACK LINE, the line beyond which
property owners or others have no legal or vested right to extend a building or
any part thereof without special permission and approval of the proper
authorities.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN. An itemized program setting forth the schedule and
details of specific contemplated public improvements by fiscal year, together
with their estimated cost, the justification for each improvement, the impact
that the improvements will have on the current operating expense of the
government and other information on capital improvements as may be pertinent.
   CERTIFICATE OF SURVEY. A land survey prepared by a land surveyor registered
in the state with a certification that the information on the land survey is
accurate.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Cannon Falls.
   COMMON INTEREST COMMUNITY or CIC.
      (1)   Contiguous or non-contiguous real estate within the state that is
subject to an instrument which obligates persons owning a separately described
parcel of the real estate or occupying a part of the real estate pursuant to a
proprietary lease, by reason of their ownership or occupancy, to pay for:
         (a)   Real estate taxes levied against;
         (b)   Insurance premiums payable with respect to;
         (c)   Maintenance of; or
         (d)   Construction, maintenance, repair or replacement of improvements
located on one or more parcels or parts of the real estate other than the
parcel or part that the person owns or occupies.
      (2)   Real estate subject to a master association, regardless of when the
master association was formed, shall not collectively constitute a separate
common interest community unless so stated in the master declaration recorded
against the real estate pursuant to M.S. § 515B.2-121(h)(1), as it may be
amended from time to time.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. Any open space including private parks, nature areas,
playgrounds, trails and recreational buildings and structures owned in common
by a group of property owners.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The City Comprehensive Plan.
   CONDOMINIUM. A form of individual ownership within a multi-unit building
with joint responsibility for maintenance and repairs. In a CONDOMINIUM, each
unit is under separate ownership, along with an undivided share of common
buildings and land.
   CONSERVATION DEVELOPMENT. The development pattern and technique whereby lots
are arranged in closely related groups to preserve the natural amenities of the
land through the creation of common open space.
   CONTOUR MAP. A map on which irregularities of land surface are shown by
lines connecting points of equal elevations. Contour interval is the vertical
height between contour lines.
   CRITICAL ROOT ZONE (CRZ). An imaginary circle surrounding the tree trunk
with a radius distance of one foot per one inch of tree diameter, e.g., a 20-
inch diameter tree has a CRZ with a radius of 20 feet.
   DESIGN STANDARDS. The specifications for the preparation of sketch plans,
preliminary plats and final plats indicating, among other things, the optimum
minimum or maximum dimensions of features such as rights-of-way and blocks, as
set forth in this chapter.
   DEVELOPER. A person who submits an application for the purpose of land
subdivision as defined herein. The DEVELOPER may be the owner or authorized
agent of the owner of the land to be subdivided.
   DIAMETER. The diameter of a tree measured at diameter breast height four and
one-half feet from the uphill side of the existing ground level.
   DRAINAGEWAY.
      (1)   Any natural, altered or artificial watercourse which has definable
beds and banks capable of conducting confined runoff from adjacent lands.
Watercourse beds not clearly defined shall be delineated to include that area
which would be inundated by runoff resulting from a 24-hour rainfall having a
recurrence interval of once in five years.
      (2)   An altered watercourse is that which has been affected by human-
made changes in straightening, deepening, narrowing or widening the original
channel.
      (3)   An artificial watercourse is that which has been artificially
constructed by man where there was no previous natural watercourse. The limits
of the watercourse bed are confined to that area, which would be inundated by
runoff resulting from a 24-hour rainfall having a recurrence interval of once
in five years.
   DRIP LINE. The farthest distance away from the trunk that rain or dew will
fall directly to the ground from the leaves or branches of the tree.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land by the
general public, a corporation or a certain person or person, for a specific
purpose or purposes.
   ENGINEER. An engineer employed by the city.
   ESCROW. The deposition of funds in an account maintained by the governmental
unit specifically for the purpose of ensuring fulfillment of certain
obligations pursuant to this chapter.
   FINANCIAL GUARANTEE. A financial security consistent with §
151.165 of this chapter, posted with the city with the approval of a final
plat, guaranteeing compliance with the approved final plat, construction plans
and conditions of approval set forth by the city.
   FLOODPLAIN. The areas adjoining a watercourse which have been or hereafter
may be covered by the regional flood.
   FRONTAGE. The width of a lot or building site measured on the line
separating it from a public street right-of-way.
   GRADE, PERCENTAGE OF. The rise or fall of a street in feet and tenths of a
foot for each 100 feet of horizontal distance measured at the centerline of the
street.
   HIGH WATER LEVEL. The water level in a watercourse which could be predicted
to occur as a result of the critical 100-year runoff event using United States
Department of Agriculture Soil Conservation Service methodology, as approved by
the city.
   IMPROVEMENT, PUBLIC. Any drainage facility, street, parkway, park, lot
improvement or other facility for which the local government may ultimately
assume the responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an
improvement for which city responsibility is established.
   LAND DISTURBANCE. Any area in which movement of earth, alteration in
topography, soil compaction, disruption of vegetation, change in soil chemistry
or any other change in the natural character of the land occurs as a result of
the site preparation, grading, building construction or any other construction
activity.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for
building development or for transfer of ownership under a single legal
description and single tax parcel identification number.
   LOT, BASE. Lots meeting all the specifications in the zoning district prior
to being subdivided into a two-family dwelling, quadraminium or townhome
subdivision.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot or lots within a plat and situated at the corners thereof
so that they are bounded on two sides by streets. This term applies to any lot
within the plat at street intersections and bounded on two sides by streets.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
rear lot line of a lot.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines abutting
two substantially parallel streets and which is not a corner lot.
   LOT, FLAG. A lot whose public right-of-way does not meet the minimum
required width. Access is provided by a narrow strip of land or private right-
of-way.
   LOT LINE. A property line bounding a lot except that where any portion of a
lot extends into the public right-of-way, the lot line shall be deemed to be
the boundary of the public right-of-way.
   LOT, UNIT. Lots created from the subdivisions of a two-family dwelling,
quadraminium or townhome having different minimum lot size requirements than
the conventional base lots within the zoning district.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot
measured at the front building setback line, and, if applicable, at the setback
line from the ordinary high water level of a lake or tributary.
   METES AND BOUNDS. A method of property description by means of their
direction and distance from an identifiable point of beginning.
   OUTLOT. A parcel of land shown on a subdivision plat as an outlot and
identified alphanumerically. OUTLOTS are used to designate one of the
following: land that is part of the subdivision but is to be subdivided into
lots and blocks at a later date; land that is to be used for a specific purpose
as designated in a developer's agreement or other agreement between the city
and the developer.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust or
any other legal entity having proprietary interest in the land.
   PEDESTRIAN AND/OR BICYCLE TRAIL. An easement or land dedication given to the
city for the purpose of providing public walking and/or bicycling trails to
city residents. The trails shall provide recreational opportunity and also
access to parks, natural areas and public land in accordance with the city's
adopted trail plan.
   PLAT. The drawing or map of a subdivision prepared for filing of record
pursuant to M.S. § 505, as it may be amended from time to time.
   PLAT, FINAL. The final map or drawing, consistent with the standards of §§
151.090 through
151.094 of this chapter, on which the developer's plan or subdivision is
presented to the City Council for approval and which, if approved, will be
submitted to the County Recorder or Registrar of Titles.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. The preliminary map or drawing, consistent with the
standards of §§
151.075 through
151.077 of this chapter, indicating the proposed layout of the subdivision to
be submitted to the city for their consideration for compliance with the
Comprehensive Plan, the zoning regulations and these regulations along with
required supporting data.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANT. A restriction of the use placed upon the property by a
present or former owner and recorded in the office of the County Recorder or
the Registrar of Titles. The city will not be responsible to enforce private
PROTECTIVE COVENANTS.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEY. A survey map of registered land designed to simplify
a complicated metes and bounds description, designating the same into a tract
or tracts of REGISTERED LAND SURVEY NUMBER.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. A land surveyor licensed and registered in the
state.
   RESUBDIVISION. A change in an approved or recorded subdivision plat if the
change affects any street layout on the map or area reserved for public use, or
any lot line or if it affects any map, or plan legally recorded prior to the
adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, railroad, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water main,
sanitary or storm sewer main, or for another special use. The usage of the term
RIGHT-OF-WAY for land platting purposes shall mean that every RIGHT-OF-WAY
hereafter established and shown on a final plat is to be separate and distinct
from the lots or parcels adjoining the right-of-way and not included within the
dimensions or areas of the lots or parcels. RIGHT-OF-WAY intended for streets,
water main, sanitary sewers, storm drains or any other use involving
maintenance by a public agency shall be dedicated to public use by the
recording of the plat on which the RIGHT-OF-WAY is established.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the outside edges of a
right-of-way.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure, individual
sewage treatment system or other facility and an ordinary high water level,
sewage treatment system, top of bluff, street, highway, property line or other
facility.
   SHORELAND.
      (1)   Land located within the following distances from public waters:
         (a)   One thousand feet from the ordinary high water level of a lake,
pond or flowage: and
         (b)   Three hundred feet from a river or stream or the landward extent
of a floodplain designated within the FP, Floodplain Management District
established by the zoning regulations on a river or stream, whichever is
greater.
      (2)   The limits of shorelands may be reduced whenever the waters
involved are bounded by topographic divides which extend landward from the
waters for lesser distances and when approved by the Commissioner of Natural
Resources.
   STREET. A right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrians and vehicles
to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, highway, thoroughfare,
parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, court, way, trail or however
otherwise designated. Private, ingress and egress easements shall not be
considered STREETS. CITY STREETS shall be categorized by functional
classification, as defined by the City Comprehensive Plan.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only one outlot and having an
appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
   STREET, PRIVATE. One which is not maintained by the city and for which the
city is not under obligation to carry out repairs, even though it may be a
named street and serve a number of properties.
   STREET WIDTH. The width of the improved surface of the street as measured at
right angles or radially to the centerline of the street from curb face to curb
face, or on a street without curbs from the outside edge of the improved
shoulder to outside edge of improved shoulder.
   SUBDIVISION. The creation of one or more lots under the provisions of this
chapter or any division of an existing lot. The term includes resubdivision
and, when appropriate to the context, shall relate to the process of
subdividing or to the land subdivided.
   TREE. Any of the following type of trees, as each is defined herein.
      (1)   CONIFEROUS TREE. A woody plant which, at maturity, is at least 12
feet or more in height, having foliage on the outermost portion of the branches
year round.
      (2)   DECIDUOUS TREE. A woody plant which, at maturity, is at least 15
feet or more in height, having a defined crown and which sheds leaves annually.
      (3)   SIGNIFICANT TREE. A healthy tree measuring a minimum of six inches
in diameter for deciduous trees or a minimum of 12 feet in height for
coniferous trees.
      (4)   SIGNIFICANT TREE STAND. A grouping or cluster of coniferous and/or
deciduous trees with contiguous crown cover, occupying 500 or more square feet
of property, which are comprised of deciduous trees between four inches and 12
inches or larger in diameter or coniferous trees between four feet and 12 feet
or higher in height.
      (5)   SPECIMEN TREE. A healthy hardwood tree measuring equal to or
greater than 30 inches in diameter and/or a coniferous tree measuring 50 feet
or greater in height.
   TREE CERTIFICATION. A certified inventory of trees on the site before and
after work is complete listing all trees and their final disposition, which is
signed by a licensed forester or landscape architect.
   TREE PRESERVATION PLAN. A plan and inventory certified by a forester or
landscape architect indicating all of the significant trees and their locations
in the proposed development or on the lot. The TREE PRESERVATION PLAN shall
include the size, species, tag numbers and location of all significant trees
proposed to be saved and removed on the area of development, and the measures
proposed to protect the significant trees to be saved.
   VEGETATION, NATIVE. The pre-settlement group of plant species native to the
local region, that were not introduced as a result of settlement or subsequent
human activity.
   WATERCOURSES. Any natural or human-made passageway on the surface of the
earth so situated and having a topographical nature that surface water stands
or flows through it from other areas. The term includes ponding areas, drainage
channels, swales, waterways, creeks, rivers, lakes, streams, wetland areas and
any other open surface water flow which is the result of stormwater or ground
water discharge. This term does not include human-made piping systems commonly
referred to as storm sewers.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The person duly appointed by the City Council as the
individual charged with the responsibility of administering and enforcing this
chapter.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The city zoning ordinance,
Chapter 152 of the city code, as may be amended, regulating the use of land
within the incorporated boundaries of the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-12) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 272, passed 3-15-2007)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.025 COMPLIANCE WITH OFFICIAL CONTROLS.
   No subdivision of land shall conflict with the provisions of the
Comprehensive Plan, city code including the zoning ordinance or official maps.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-1) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.026 FEES.
   (A)   The fees for all applications and for all permits shall be established
by the City Council.
   (B)   The acceptance of all applications, issuance of permits or recording
of any plat shall not occur until a complete application has been filed and the
appropriate fees have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-2) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.027 BUILDING PERMITS.
   No building permit shall be issued by the city for any construction,
enlargement, alteration, repair, demolition or moving of any building or
structure on any lot or parcel until all the requirements of this chapter have
been fully met or exceptions from this requirement have been formally
established by a development contract.
   (A)   Prior to issuance of any building permit on any lot within a
subdivision, the city shall have received a site survey showing proposed
grading, drainage and building pad elevations along with a certification by a
registered land surveyor or engineer that the survey is in compliance with the
approved subdivision record plans for grading, drainage, stormwater and erosion
control.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of any certificate of occupancy for any lot
within the subdivision, the city shall receive a written certification from a
registered land surveyor or registered engineer which states that the grading,
drainage and building pad elevations are in compliance with the final certified
grading plan for the subdivision.
   (C)   Excepting approved model homes, building permits shall not be issued
for any new subdivision until a time as the first lift of bituminous has been
installed and has been accepted by the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-3) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.028 PREMATURE SUBDIVISION.
   Any sketch plan, preliminary plat, final plat deemed premature pursuant to
the following criteria shall be denied by the City Council.
   (A)   Conditions for establishing a premature subdivision. A subdivision may
be deemed premature should any of the following conditions not be met.
      (1)   Consistency. Consistency with the Comprehensive Plan including any
of the following:
         (a)   City Comprehensive Plan;
         (b)   Comprehensive Sanitary Sewer Plan;
         (c)   Comprehensive Water Plan;
         (d)   Stormwater Management Plan;
         (e)   Comprehensive Parks and Trail Plan; and/or
         (f)   Capital Improvement Plan.
      (2)   Consistent with growth policies. A proposed urban subdivision shall
meet the city's infill policies.
         (a)   The urban subdivision must be located within the staged growth
area as established by the Comprehensive Plan.
         (b)   The cost of utilities and street extensions must be covered by
one or more of the following and approved by the City Council:
            1.   An immediate assessment to the proposed subdivision;
            2.   One hundred percent of the street and utility costs are
privately financed by the developer;
            3.   The cost of regional and/or oversized trunk utility lines can
be financed with available city trunk funds; and
            4.   The cost and timing of the expenditure of city funds are
consistent with the city's capital improvement plan.
         (c)   The developer payments will offset additional costs of utility
installation or future operation and maintenance.
      (3)   Streets or highways to serve the subdivision. A proposed
subdivision shall have adequate streets or highways when:
         (a)   Traffic generated by a proposed subdivision will not degrade the
level of service outside of the proposed subdivision to a level worse than the
existing level of service;
         (b)   The existing level of service shall be "C" (as determined by the
State Highway Capacity Manual) or better for any street providing access to the
subdivision. If the existing level of service is "D," "E" or "F," the
subdivision developer must provide, as part of the proposed project,
improvements needed to ensure a level of service "C" or better;
         (c)   Existing roads providing access to the subdivision have the
structural capacity to accommodate projected traffic from the proposed
subdivision or the developer agrees to pay for any structural deficiency
corrections; and
         (d)   The traffic generated from a proposed subdivision shall not
require city street improvements that are inconsistent with the City Capital
Improvement Plan/Comprehensive Development Study or the developer agrees to pay
for any structural deficiency corrections.
      (4)   Water supply. A proposed subdivision shall be deemed to have an
adequate water supply when:
         (a)   The city water system has adequate wells, storage or pipe
capacity to serve the subdivision;
         (b)   The water utility extension is consistent with the Comprehensive
Water Plan and offers the opportunity for water main looping to serve the urban
subdivision;
         (c)   The extension of water mains will provide adequate water
pressure for personal use and fire protection; and
         (d)   Adequate wellhead protection measures have been implemented for
all abandoned wells.
      (5)   Waste disposal systems. A proposed subdivision shall be served with
adequate waste disposal systems when:
         (a)   The city has sufficient waste treatment plant and pipe capacity
to serve the subdivision if developed to its maximum density; and
         (b)   The subdivision will result in a sewer extension consistent with
the Comprehensive Sanitary Sewer Plan and Capital Improvement Plan.
      (6)   Adequate drainage. A condition of adequate drainage shall be deemed
to exist if:
         (a)   Surface or subsurface water retention and runoff is adequate so
as not to constitute a danger to the structural security of existing or
proposed structures;
         (b)   The proposed subdivision will not cause pollution of water
sources or damage from erosion and siltation on downhill or downstream land;
         (c)   The proposed site grading and development will not cause harmful
and irreparable damage from erosion and siltation on downhill or downstream
land; and
         (d)   Factors to be considered in making these determinations may
include: average rainfall for the area; the relation of the land to
floodplains; the nature of soils and subsoils and their ability to adequately
support surface water runoff and waste disposal systems; the slope of the land
and its effect on effluents; and the presence of streams as related to effluent
disposal.
   (B)   Burden of establishing. The burden shall be upon the applicant to show
that the proposed subdivision is not premature.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-4) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.029 DENIAL OF PLAT.
   The Planning Commission may recommend denial and the City Council may deny
the subdivision if it makes any one or more of the following findings.
   (A)   The proposed subdivision is in conflict with adopted applicable
general and specific comprehensive plans of the city.
   (B)   The physical characteristics of this site, including but not limited
to, topography, percolation rate, soil conditions, susceptibility to erosion
and siltation, susceptibility to flooding, water storage, drainage and
retention, are such that the site is not suitable for the type of development,
design or use contemplated.
   (C)   The site is not physically suitable for the proposed density of
development.
   (D)   The design of the subdivision or proposed improvements is likely to
cause environmental damage.
   (E)   The design of the subdivision or the type of improvements is likely to
cause public health problems.
   (F)   The design of the subdivision or the type of improvements will
conflict with easements of record or with easements established by judgment of
a court.
   (G)   The proposed subdivision, its site or its design adversely affects the
flood-carrying capacity of the floodway, increases flood stages and velocities
or increases flood hazards within the floodway fringe or within other areas of
the city.
   (H)   The proposed subdivision is inconsistent with the policies and
standards of the state defined shoreland, floodplain and wetland regulations.
   (I)   The City Council deems the subdivision to be premature.
   (J)   The design of the subdivision does not conform to minimum city
development standards.
   (K)   The time period for review of the plat has reached expiration without
resolution of design features or conformance with city development regulations
that would allow for city approval.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-5) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.030 REGISTERED LAND SURVEYS.
   All registered land surveys shall be filed subject to the same procedures as
required for the filing of a preliminary plat for platting purposes. The
standards and requirements set forth in these regulations shall apply to all
registered land surveys. Unless the City Council approves, a registered land
survey shall not be used to divide a parcel of land into lots for the purpose
of transfer of ownership or building development, if any of the tracts do not
have the required frontage on a dedicated public street. Tracts that have been
subdivided by registered land survey not approved by the City Council may be
denied building permits and the city may refuse to accept tracts as streets for
improvement, maintenance and repair.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-6) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.031 METES AND BOUNDS.
   (A)   Except as allowed by the City Council, conveyances by metes and bounds
shall be prohibited except as allowed by M.S. §§ 462.358 Subdivision 4b(b)(5)
and (6), as they may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   When a conveyance by metes and bounds is made, a survey of the parcels
involved shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator and a copy of the
survey shall be attached to the deed when it is submitted to the County
Register of Deed's office for recording.
   (C)   Parcels that have been subdivided by metes and bounds not approved by
the City Council may be denied building permits and the city may refuse to
accept parcels as streets for improvement, maintenance and repair.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-7) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.032 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD).
   (A)   In recognition of changing trends, techniques and materials in the
process of urban development, the City Council and Planning Commission shall
provide flexible means to permit development in terms of planned unit
developments. A planned unit development shall be considered as a conditional
use and may involve mixed development of a single parcel based upon the land
uses allowed in the Comprehensive Plan. The PUD shall be reviewed and adjudged
in accordance with an integrated design and coordinated physical development
which shall provide for and ensure high standards of development. Each
application for PUD shall be considered as an individual case and shall be
reviewed in terms of its land use, circulation and traffic patterns, population
and marketability, construction design and timing. Of greatest concern shall be
the PUD's relationship to the general public health, safety, convenience and
welfare.
   (B)   A conditional use to allow PUD construction shall be granted only if:
      (1)   The PUD is designed to be in harmony with the natural features of
the landscape. Steep slopes, wetlands and natural features are to be preserved
to the maximum extent possible. No disruption of the natural drainage system
shall occur;
      (2)   Any PUD flexibility granted shall not violate the intent of the
subdivision design standards; and
      (3)   Utility lines such as power transmission and telephone lines shall
be placed underground.
(Prior Code, § 12-2-8) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
ADMINISTRATIVE SUBDIVISIONS
§ 151.045 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this section shall apply only to those subdivisions
classified as administrative subdivisions.
(Prior Code, § 12-3) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.046 QUALIFICATION.
   The following shall be considered an administrative subdivision.
   (A)   Lot boundary line adjustment. Divisions of land where the division is
to permit the adding of a parcel of land to an abutting lot or the combination
of recorded lots to form no more than two lots. Newly created lots shall
conform to the design and performance standards of the city subdivision and
zoning regulations.
   (B)   Lot split. The simple division of a single parcel, tract or lot to
create no more than two lots and the newly created property line will not cause
the remaining portion of the lot or any structure to be in violation with this
chapter or the city zoning regulations.
   (C)   Base lot subdivision. In the case of a request to divide a base lot
upon which a two-family dwelling, townhouse or a quadraminium, which is a part
of a recorded plat where the division is to permit individual private ownership
of a single-dwelling unit within a structure and the newly created property
lines will not cause any of the unit lots or the structure to be in violation
of this chapter or the city zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-1) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.047 INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever any subdivision of land as outlined in §
151.090 is proposed, before any contract is made for the sale of any part
thereof and before any permit for the erection of a structure on the proposed
subdivision shall be granted, the owner or his or her agent, shall file an
application and secure approval of an administrative subdivision. The
administrative subdivision application shall be considered to be officially
filed when the Zoning Administrator has received the application and has
determined that the application is complete. Administrative subdivisions shall
consist of maps and accompanying written documents.
   (B)   An owner or applicant shall submit 12 large scale copies (one inch
equal 100 feet or less) and one reduced scale copy (11 inches by 17 inches) of
detailed graphic materials to include the following information: certificate of
survey prepared by a licensed land surveyor identifying the following:
      (1)   Scale (engineering only) one inch equals 100 feet or less;
      (2)   Name and address, including telephone number, of legal owner and/or
agent of property;
      (3)   North point indication;
      (4)   Existing boundaries of parcel to be platted with dimensions and
area and proposed new property lines with dimensions noted;
      (5)   Existing legal description/proposed legal description of new lots;
      (6)   Easements of record;
      (7)   Delineated wetland boundary, to include the ordinary high water
level (OHWL) of any lakes or Department of Natural Resources (DNR) waters, 100-
year flood elevations;
      (8)   All encroachments, easements or rights-of-way encumbering the
property;
      (9)   Existing buildings, structures and improvements within the parcel
to be platted and those 100 feet outside the boundaries of the subject parcel;
      (10)   Locations, widths and names of all public streets, rights-of-way
or railroad rights-of-way showing type, width and condition of the
improvements, if any, which pass through and/or are within 100 feet;
      (11)   Proposed driveway locations and locations of existing driveways on
the same side of the road;
      (12)   Location of any existing tile lines, abandoned wells,
drainageways, waterways, watercourses, lakes and wetlands; and
      (13)   Additional preliminary plat data requirements determined
appropriate by the Zoning Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-2) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.048 FILING AND REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Filing application. The applicant shall file an administrative
subdivision application with all required information and accompanying fee with
a schedule established by the city.
   (B)   Review of application. Upon receipt of an application, the Zoning
Administrator shall refer copies of the complete administrative subdivision
application to city staff and consultants for review and the preparation of a
report.
   (C)   Additional and supportive information. The Zoning Administrator shall
have the authority to request additional information pertinent to the
administrative subdivision. Failure to provide the necessary supportive
information may be grounds for denial of the request.
   (D)   Decision. The Zoning Administrator shall reach a decision on the
requested administrative subdivision within 120 days of complete application,
unless the applicant agrees to an extension of the review period.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator may approve the administrative subdivision
with conditions that must be met to ensure the administrative subdivision is
compliant with the regulations of the city subdivision and zoning regulations,
as may be amended, and other applicable requirements.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall prepare findings and deny a
subdivision if the administrative subdivision is found to be premature as
defined by the criteria of §
151.028 of this chapter or fails to comply with regulations of the city
subdivision and zoning regulations, as may be amended, or other applicable
requirements.
   (E)   Decision appeal. The applicant may appeal a denial of an
administrative subdivision in accordance to the procedures outlined in §
152.040 of the city zoning regulations, as amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-3) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.049 RECORDING.
   If the administrative subdivision is approved by the City Administrator, the
applicant shall record the deed, and the accompanying survey, in the office of
the City Recorder or County Registrar of Titles within 90 days after the date
of approval, otherwise the approval of the administrative subdivision shall be
considered void.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-4) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
SKETCH PLAN
§ 151.060 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   While not mandatory, it is suggested that subdividers prepare a sketch plan
depicting the subdivision proposal for informal review prior to filing a formal
application. A sketch plan may be required with all annexation petitions. On
the basis of the sketch plan, the city shall informally advise the subdivider
as promptly as possible of the extent to which the proposed subdivision
generally conforms to the design standards of this section and to other
sections of this chapter. Sketch plan review does not convey any legal
development rights to the applicants.
(Prior Code, § 12-4) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.061 INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR SKETCH PLAN.
   (A)   Generally. The sketch plan shall include seven large scale copies and
one reduced scale (11 inches by 17 inches) copy of detailed written materials,
plans and specifications to include the information listed below. Additional
large scale copies shall be provided for each of the following, if applicable:
 
Circumstance                                             Additional Copies
Project abuts a township                                 1
Project is adjacent to a county road or county state aid 1
highway
Project is adjacent to a state highway                   1
Project lies within a Shoreland or Floodplain Overlay    1
Districts
 
   (B)   General location and site description.
      (1)   Name and address of developer/owner;
      (2)   Date of plan preparation and dates of revision;
      (3)   Scale of plan (engineering scale only; one inch equals 100 feet);
      (4)   North arrow indication;
      (5)   Legal description;
      (6)   Property location map illustrating the site location relative to
adjoining properties and streets;
      (7)   Scaled drawing (engineering scale only) illustrating property
boundaries;
      (8)   Proof of ownership;
      (9)   Current and proposed land use and zoning;
      (10)   Evaluation by the applicant that the subdivision would not be
determined to be premature pursuant to the criteria outlined by these
subdivision regulations;
      (11)   Aerial photo with sketch plan overlay; and
      (12)   Additional information as required by the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Resource inventory. A resource inventory, mapped at a scale of one
inch to 100 feet or less shall include:
      (1)   Topographic contours. Topographic contours at two-foot intervals;
      (2)   Soil type locations. Soil type locations and identification of soil
type characteristics such as hydric soils, depth to bedrock, depth to water
table and suitability for wastewater disposal systems, if applicable (County
Soil Survey information);
      (3)   Hydrologic characteristics. Hydrologic characteristics including
surface watercourses, floodplains, delineated wetlands, natural swales and
drainageways;
      (4)   Site vegetation. Site vegetation including:
         (a)   Cover type (pasture, woodland and the like);
         (b)   Woodland area boundaries;
         (c)   Individual trees having a diameter at breast height of 18 or
more inches; and
         (d)   Vegetative type descriptions (deciduous, coniferous or mixed) by
plant community, relative age and condition.
      (5)   Current land use and land cover. Current land use and land cover
(cultivated areas, paved areas and the like), all buildings and structures on
the land and all encumbrances, such as easements or covenants;
      (6)   Transportation systems. Transportation systems including:
         (a)   Adjoining streets;
         (b)   Functional classifications;
         (c)   Current and projected traffic volumes; and
         (d)   General conditions.
      (7)   Neighborhood context. General outlines of existing neighborhoods,
land uses, buildings, streets and natural features such as waterbodies or
wooded areas, roads, driveways and property boundaries within 300 feet of the
tract. This information shall be presented on an aerial photograph at a scale
of no less than one inch to 200 feet.
   (D)   Sketch subdivision plan. One or more of the subdivision sketch plans
meeting the intent of this chapter and including at least the following
information:
      (1)   Open space areas indicating which areas are to be protected and
defined by the purpose of the open space;
      (2)   Boundaries of areas to be developed and proposed general street and
lot layout;
      (3)   Number and type of housing units and/or approximate size and
location of commercial and industrial buildings as may be applicable;
      (4)   Areas proposed for stormwater management;
      (5)   Street system that interconnects neighborhoods that is consistent
with the City Comprehensive Plan;
      (6)   Location of utility trunks intended to serve the site;
      (7)   The plans shall be drawn at a scale of one inch to 100 feet or
less; and
      (8)   Total area of wetlands and uplands on site.
   (E)   Application fee and deposit. Application fee and deposit or escrow
security to pay for review costs of the city staff and consultants.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-1) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.062 FILING AND REVIEW OF APPLICATION; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Pre-application meeting. An applicant may meet with city staff to
discuss a proposed development and investigate the city requirements for
pursuing a development application.
   (B)   Neighborhood meeting. The city recommends the property owner/applicant
hold a neighborhood meeting for informal comment and feedback prior to
submitting a formal sketch application.
   (C)   Application. An application for sketch plan along with the associated
information and fee established by the City Council shall be submitted to the
Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   Copies of sketch plan to be submitted. The Zoning Administrator shall
submit copies of the sketch plan and associated information to other staff,
committees, consultants or agencies as appropriate.
   (E)   Copies forwarded to advisory boards and City Council. The Zoning
Administrator shall forward the sketch plan submission to the city's advisory
boards and City Council for their consideration at regularly scheduled meetings
to solicit informal review and comment on the project's acceptability in
relation to the city's Comprehensive Plan and development regulations. The
applicant shall attend these meetings.
   (F)   Sketch plan review. Sketch plan review does not convey any legal
development rights or guarantees of approvals required by the city code.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-2) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.063 DETERMINATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the sketch plan and determine if
an Environmental Assessment Worksheet (EAW), Environmental Impact Statement
(EIS) or Alternative Urban Area-Wide Review (AUAR) is required pursuant to
Minnesota Rules. If these documents are required, the Zoning Administrator may
notify the developer of the requirement.
   (B)   Any necessary environmental reviews shall be prepared and processed in
accordance with Minn. Rules 4410, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   An escrow deposit in addition to the standard requirements shall be
submitted by the applicant to cover city costs reviewing and administering the
aforementioned environmental requirements.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-3) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
PRELIMINARY PLAT
§ 151.075 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   After the completion of the sketch plan process, if submitted, the
owner or developer shall file with the city an application for preliminary
plat. The preliminary plat stage is the point in the process that all
information pertinent to the proposed development is furnished by the developer
for review by the city staff and consultants, city advisory committees, the
City Council, any other applicable agencies and the public.
   (B)   The information provides a basis for approval or denial of the
application. The information submitted in the application shall address both
existing conditions and changes that will occur during and after development.
The preliminary plat is a plan of how property will be subdivided and
developed. Additional information or modifications may be required by the
Zoning Administrator, city staff and consultants, city advisory committees or
City Council and additional information may be requested during the review
process. In certain cases, some information required by these standards may not
be appropriate or may need to be modified in order to provide an adequate basis
for making a decision.
(Prior Code, § 12-5) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.076 INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Generally. The plat, and associated information, shall be submitted in
a form that is legible, organized and understandable. The preliminary plat
application shall consist of maps and accompanying documents. An applicant
shall submit 12 large scale copies (one inch equals 100 feet or less) and one
reduced scale copy (11 inches by 17 inches) and one digital electronic copy in
a format compatible with the city's computer programs of detailed graphic
materials, plans and specifications along with any written materials, including
the information listed below. Additional large scale copies shall be provided
for each of the following, if applicable.
 
Circumstance                                             Additional Copies
Project abuts a township                                 1
Project is adjacent to a county road or county state aid 1
highway
Project is adjacent to a state highway                   2
Project lies within a Shoreland or Floodplain Overlay    1
Districts
 
   (B)   Certificate of survey. Prepared by a licensed land surveyor
identifying the following:
      (1)   Scale (engineering only) at one inch equals 100 feet or less;
      (2)   North arrow indication;
      (3)   Existing parcel boundaries to be platted with dimensions and area;
      (4)   Existing legal description;
      (5)   Easements of record;
      (6)   Delineated wetland boundary, to include the ordinary high water
level (OHWL) of any lakes or Department of Natural Resources (DNR) waters. All
flood zones as shown on Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) FIRM map;
      (7)   All encroachments;
      (8)   Existing buildings, structures and improvements within the parcel
to be platted and those 350 feet outside the boundaries of the subject parcel;
      (9)   Location, widths and names of all public streets, rights-of-way or
railroad rights-of-way showing type, width and condition of the improvements,
if any, which pass through and/or are within 350 feet; and
      (10)   The outside boundary of the subject property is to be clearly
marked with survey monuments.
   (C)   Resource inventory.
      (1)   Topographic contours. Topographic contours at two-foot intervals;
      (2)   Soil type locations. Soil type locations and identification of soil
type characteristics such as hydric soils, agricultural capability, depth to
bedrock, depth of water table and suitability for wastewater disposal systems,
if applicable (County Soil Survey information);
      (3)   Hydrologic characteristics. Hydrologic characteristics, including
surface watercourses, floodplains, delineated wetlands, natural swales and
drainageways. Ordinary high water level and 100-year storm elevations of
adjoining watercourses, lakes, wetlands, streams and the like at the date of
the survey and approximate high and low water elevations. The 500-year storm
elevations shall be identified when required by the City Engineer;
      (4)   Tree inventory. Tree inventory identifying vegetation of the site,
according to general cover type (pasture, woodland and the like), defining
boundaries of significant tree stands and individual significant trees as
defined by §
151.011 of this chapter. Vegetative types shall be classified as generally
deciduous, coniferous or mixed and described by plant community, relative age
and condition; and
      (5)   Neighborhood context. General outlines of existing buildings, land
use and natural features such as waterbodies or wooded areas, roads, driveways
and property boundaries within 300 feet of the tract. This information may be
presented on an aerial photograph at a scale of no less than one inch to 200
feet.
   (D)   Preliminary plat.
      (1)   The proposed name of the plat, which shall not duplicate the name
of any plat theretofore recorded in the county, and shall be subject to
approval by the City Council for appropriate local context;
      (2)   Date of application, name, address, phone number and applicable
license or registration number of the owner, developer, agent, applicant,
engineer, surveyor, planner, attorney or other principle involved in the
development of the plat;
      (3)   Proof of ownership;
      (4)   Existing Comprehensive Plan guiding and zoning designation within
or abutting the proposed plat. Any zoning changes required for the development,
or reference to any zoning or similar land use actions that are pertinent to
the proposed development;
      (5)   Total acreage of the land to be subdivided and total upland area;
      (6)   Boundary line survey and legal description;
      (7)   North arrow and graphic engineering scale of one inch equals 100
feet;
      (8)   Existing covenants, liens or encumbrances;
      (9)   Proposed lot lines, dimensions and the gross and buildable acreage
of all lots. When lots are located on a curve in a street or cul-de-sac, the
lot width at the building setback line shall be shown. Proposed lot and block
numbers;
      (10)   Building pad, minimum building setbacks shown on each lot
indicating dimensions of the setbacks. Location and width of buffer yards where
the subdivision adjoins a collector or arterial street, railroad right-of-way
or overhead transmission line;
      (11)   Layout of streets, showing right-of-way widths, centerline street
grades and approximate radii of all curbs, proposed contours within the entire
plat and names of streets;
      (12)   Access, right-of-way widths, driveways and street classifications
shall be consistent with the City Comprehensive Plan;
      (13)   Parks, trails or other areas intended for public use or common
ownership;
      (14)   Any additional information as requested by the Zoning
Administrator;
      (15)   Dates of plan preparation and revision dates; and
      (16)   All delineated wetlands and the ordinary high water level (OHWL)
of Department of Natural Resources protected waters.
   (E)   Preliminary grading, drainage and erosion control plan. The developer
shall submit a preliminary grading, drainage and erosion control plan utilizing
a copy of the current certificate of survey as a base for the site in question,
prepared by a licensed engineer, depicting the following information:
      (1)   Scale (engineering only) one inch equals 100 feet or less;
      (2)   North point indication;
      (3)   Location of natural features including, but not limited to, tree
lines, delineated wetlands, watercourses, ponds, lakes, streams, drainage
channels, ordinary high water level (OHWL) and 100-year storm elevations,
bluffs, steep slopes and the like;
      (4)   Existing contours at two-foot intervals shown as dashed lines for
the subject property and extending 100 feet beyond the outside boundary of the
proposed plat;
      (5)   Proposed grade elevations at two-foot intervals shown as solid
lines;
      (6)   Proposed plan for surface water management, ponding, drainage and
flood control consistent with the recommendations and standards of the City
Stormwater Management Plan;
      (7)   Provision for groundwater management including sub-surface drains,
disposals, ponding and flood controls;
      (8)   Location of all existing storm sewer facilities including pipes,
manholes, catch basins, ponds, swales and drainage channels within 100 feet of
the subject property. Existing pipe grades, rim and invert elevations and
normal and high water elevations must be included;
      (9)   If the subject property is within or adjacent to a 100-year
floodplain, flood elevation and locations must be shown;
      (10)   Spot elevations at drainage break points and directional arrows
indicating site, swale and lot drainage;
      (11)   Lot and block numbers, building style, building pad location and
elevations at the lowest floor and garage slab for each lot;
      (12)   Locations, grades, rim and invert elevations of all proposed
stormwater facilities, including ponds, proposed to serve the subject property;
      (13)   Phasing of grading;
      (14)   The location and purpose of all oversize, non-typical easements;
      (15)   All soil erosion and sediment control measures to be incorporated
during and after construction must be shown. Locations and standard detail
plates for each measure shall be in accordance with city standards and included
on the plan;
      (16)   All re-vegetation measures proposed for the subject property must
be included on the plan, including seed and mulch types and application rates;
      (17)   Drainage plan, including the configuration of drainage areas and
calculations for two-year, ten-year and 100-year storm events;
      (18)   Layout of proposed streets showing centerline gradients, section
widths and typical cross sections; and
      (19)   Date of plan preparation and dates of all revisions.
   (F)   Preliminary utility plan. The developer shall submit a preliminary
utility plan utilizing a copy of the current certificate of survey as a base
for the site in question, prepared by a licensed engineer, depicting the
following information:
      (1)   Scale (engineering only) one inch equals 100 feet or less;
      (2)   The location, dimensions and purpose of all easements of record;
      (3)   Location and size of existing sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water
mains, culverts or other underground facilities within the subject property and
to a distance of 100 feet beyond the outside boundary of the proposed plat.
Data such as grades, invert elevations and location of catch basins, manholes
and hydrants shall also be shown;
      (4)   Locations and routing of proposed sanitary sewer lines, stormwater
lines and water mains. Identification of gravity, force main and alternative
service lines;
      (5)   Water mains shall be provided to serve the subdivision by extension
of an existing community system. Service connections shall be stubbed ten feet
into each lot and all necessary fire hydrants shall also be provided.
Extensions of the public water supply system shall be designed so as to provide
public water in accordance with the standards of the city;
      (6)   Sanitary sewer trunk, laterals and service connections shall be
illustrated in accordance with the standards of the city with regard to
location, size and service type, subject to final review and approval of the
City Council;
      (7)   The location of hydrants and valves for all proposed water mains;
      (8)   All other utilities shall be located and designed in accordance
with the requirements of the City Engineer;
      (9)   Submit storm sewer design flow calculations with the utility plans;
and
      (10)   Date of plan preparation and dates of all revisions.
   (G)   Determination of requirement for environmental review documents.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the preliminary plat and may
determine if an Environmental Assessment Workshop (EAW), Environmental Impact
Statement (EIS) or Alternative Urban Area-Wide Review (AUAR) is required
pursuant to Minnesota Rules. If these documents are required, the Zoning
Administrator may notify the developer of the requirement.
      (2)   Any necessary environmental reviews shall be prepared and processed
in accordance with Minn. Rules 4100, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   An escrow deposit in addition to the standard requirements shall be
submitted by the applicant to cover city costs reviewing and administering an
EAW.
   (H)   Additional information required.
      (1)   Evaluation by the applicant. Evaluation by the applicant that the
subdivision would not be determined to be premature pursuant to the criteria
outlined by the Comprehensive Plan and these subdivision regulations;
      (2)   Phasing plan. All preliminary plats shall include a phasing plan
that includes the following.
         (a)   A phasing plan identifying the sequence of development and
approximate areas, number of lots in each phase, total area and buildable area
per phase, serially numbered with a description of each phase. Information
shall be provided regarding the number of dwelling units, proposed improvements
and common facilities for each.
         (b)   Any trail/sidewalks within the approved phase of the preliminary
plat shall be constructed along with streets and utilities and shall be clearly
marked on a site map which shall be an attachment to all sales agreements for
individual lots.
         (c)   Site grading shall be coordinated with the phasing plan to avoid
premature disruption of land or long term storage of excess materials.
         (d)   Each phase of developer improvements as specified in the final
plat and development agreement shall be completed prior to initiating any
subsequent phase. Developer improvements shall be limited to those specifically
illustrated and/or enumerated in the final plat and development agreement.
      (3)   Documents. Documents outlining the content of proposed conservation
easements, restrictive covenants, deed restrictions and establishment of
homeowners associations for review. Where the plat is intended to include
common open spaces, these documents shall address ownership and long term
maintenance of these open spaces areas;
      (4)   Information or easements. Information or easements showing how
public utilities, drainage and roads can be extended to serve adjacent
property;
      (5)   Landscape and screening plans. Landscape and screening plans
showing landscape plantings for street boulevards, subdivision entrances and
buffer yards and specifying plant locations, varieties, sizes, ownership,
maintenance responsibilities and monument signs;
      (6)   Traffic study. Traffic study for the subdivision including pre- and
post-development information regarding traffic generation, traffic
distribution, capacity of existing streets and level of service (LOS) on
existing streets;
      (7)   Examples of housing product. Illustration of building footprint,
floor plans and building elevations proposed within the subdivision; and
      (8)   Other information. Other information deemed necessary for a
complete application.
(Prior Code, § 12-5-1) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.077 FILING AND REVIEW OF APPLICATION; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Pre-application meeting. The property owner/applicant shall meet with
the Zoning Administrator and other city staff to discuss the preliminary plat
application. Through this meeting, the Zoning Administrator/city staff may
summarize the city's review comments and offer suggestions pertaining to
additional information or design changes that may assist in expediting the
preliminary plat review.
   (B)   Neighborhood meeting. The city recommends the property owner/applicant
hold a neighborhood meeting for informal comment and feedback prior to
preliminary plat application.
   (C)   Application. The person applying for preliminary plat approval shall
submit to the Zoning Administrator a complete application and all other
information required in accordance to the submission and meeting schedule
established by the city. The application shall address the informational
requirements of §
151.061 of this chapter and issues identified through the sketch plan review
procedure.
   (D)   Inclusions in a complete preliminary plat application. A complete
preliminary plat application shall include:
      (1)   A graphic and written description of the information requirements
outlined in §
151.061 of this chapter; and
      (2)   Applications shall be accompanied by a fee and processing escrow
established by the City Council.
   (E)   Notification. The Zoning Administrator, upon receipt of an
application, shall notify the applicant in writing within ten business days if
the application is found to be incomplete.
   (F)   Referral of copies. The Zoning Administrator shall refer copies of the
preliminary plat to other city staff, consultants, advisory committees or
agencies as appropriate.
   (G)   Report. Upon receipt of a complete application, the Zoning
Administrator shall have a report prepared and refer the application to the
city advisory committees, the Planning Commission and City Council.
   (H)   Review of application. The application shall be reviewed by city
advisory committees. The recommendations of the other advisory committees will
be forwarded to the Planning Commission for its consideration of the
application at a public hearing.
   (I)   Public hearing. The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on
the proposed preliminary plat. Notice of the public hearing shall be published
in the official newspaper designated by the City Council at least ten days
prior to the hearing. Written notification of the hearing shall be mailed at
least ten days prior to the hearing to all owners of land within 350 feet of
the boundary of the property in question. Failure of a property owner to
receive the notice shall not invalidate any proceedings as set forth within
this chapter, provided a bona fide attempt has been made to comply with the
notice requirements of this chapter.
   (J)   Public testimony. The Planning Commission shall take public testimony
at its public hearing and evaluate the requested preliminary plat against the
premature subdivision criteria of §
151.028 of this chapter, the performance standards of this chapter, the
performance standards of the city zoning regulations and other city
requirements. The Planning Commission shall make findings and offer a
recommendation for either preliminary plat approval or denial. The Planning
Commission may offer a recommendation of approval with conditions necessary to
satisfy city regulations.
   (K)   Staff report. The Zoning Administrator shall prepare a staff report of
the findings and recommendations of the Planning Commission. The findings may
include specific conditions of approval or findings related to denial of the
plat.
   (L)   City Council action. The City Council shall take action on the
application within 120 days following delivery of an application completed in
accordance with the regulations of this chapter, unless an extension is agreed
to by the applicant.
   (M)   Approval or denial. The City Council shall take action on the
application which shall include findings of fact and shall be entered in the
proceedings of the City Council and transmitted to the applicant in writing. If
the City Council approves the preliminary plat, it may impose conditions it
considers necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare. If the
City Council denies the preliminary plat, it must make findings of fact in
writing the reasons for the denial at the time it denies the request. The lack
of a majority of the City Council to vote affirmatively to approve a
preliminary plat shall be a denial of the requested application.
   (N)   Action to be taken after approval. If the preliminary plat is approved
by the City Council, the applicant shall submit a complete application for
final plat in accordance with the approved phasing plan but no later than one
year, after the approval or approval of the preliminary plat shall be
considered void, unless a request for time extension is submitted in writing by
the applicant and approved by the City Council prior to the expiration of the
preliminary plat approval.
(Prior Code, § 12-5-2) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
FINAL PLAT
§ 151.090 INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Generally. Approval of a preliminary plat by the City Council is an
acceptance of the general layout, as submitted, and indicates that the
developer may proceed toward final plat approval in accordance with the City
Council approval of the preliminary plat, including conditions. The final plat
application shall have incorporated all the conditions of City Council approval
of the preliminary plat. In all other respects, the final plat shall
substantially conform to the preliminary plat. It may constitute only that
portion of the approved preliminary plat which the developer proposes to record
and develop at that time, provided that the portion conforms with all the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Revised preliminary plat. The city may require seven large scale
copies (22 inches by 34 inches), one reproducible reduction at 11 inches by 17
inches and one digital electronic copy in a format compatible with the city's
computer system of the preliminary plat and of supporting documents
illustrating all changes and conditions that were required as part of
preliminary plat approval. This revised preliminary plat will provide the
historical record of the subdivision approval by which subsequent final plats
shall be considered.
   (C)   Title restrictions. The city shall require submission of one copy of
any title declaration, conservation easements, deed restriction, restrictive
covenant or homeowner's association documents.
   (D)   Final plat general information. Twelve large scale (22 inches by 34
inches) copies and one digital electronic copy in a format compatible with the
city's computer system of the final plat and supporting documents, plus any
additional copies deemed necessary by the Zoning Administrator plus one copy
reduced to 11 inches by 17 inches.
      (1)   Name of the subdivision;
      (2)   Location by section, township, range, county and state as well as
descriptive boundaries of the subdivision based upon an accurate traverse,
giving angular and linear dimensions;
      (3)   Scale (engineering only) one inch equals 100 feet or less;
      (4)   North point indication;
      (5)   The location of monuments shall be shown and described. Pipe or
steel rod shall be at the corners of each lot and at each intersection of
street centerlines;
      (6)   Location and accurate dimensions of all lots, outlots, streets and
other features. Lots and blocks shall be numbered;
      (7)   A listing of the total area of each lot measured in gross square
feet per lot and total area of the plat;
      (8)   The exact location, widths and names of all proposed streets to be
dedicated;
      (9)   The location and width of all easements to be dedicated;
      (10)   Accurate outlines and legal description of land to be dedicated as
parks, trails, ponds or other public use shall be illustrated on the final plat
and dedicated with the final plat;
      (11)   Name and address of the registered surveyor of the plat with
certification by a registered surveyor in the form required by M.S. § 505.03,
as it may be amended from time to time;
      (12)   Statement dedicating all easements as follows: easements for
installation and maintenance of trails, utilities and drainage facilities are
reserved over, under and along the areas designated as drainage and utility
easements;
      (13)   Statement dedicating all streets or other public rights-of-way as
follows: streets and other public areas shown on this plat and not heretofore
dedicated to public use are hereby so dedicated; and
      (14)   Final grading, construction plans shall be prepared and submitted
in accordance with city standards.
   (E)   Development contracts.
      (1)   The developer shall meet with the city staff to finalize the terms
of the development contract.
      (2)   Upon finalization of the development contract, the City
Administrator shall have the final copy of the contract signed by all
appropriate parties. The development contract shall be recorded against the
property.
      (3)   Financial securities shall be posted with the city as outlined in
the development contract.
      (4)   Final grading and utility plans shall be approved by the City
Engineer and made a part of the development contract.
      (5)   When the city has agreed to install improvements in a development,
the developer shall furnish the city a financial statement satisfactory to the
city. When the city has not undertaken improvement installation, it may, at its
option, require the developer to furnish a financial statement satisfactory to
the city.
   (F)   Additional final plat information.
      (1)   Certification by a registered land surveyor, to the effect that the
plat represents a survey made by him or her and that monuments and markers
shown thereof exist as located and that all dimensional and geodetic details
are correct;
      (2)   Notarized certification by owner and by any mortgage holder of
record of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and other
public areas;
      (3)   Approval by signature of city and county officials concerned with
the approval of the plat; and
      (4)   Form for approval of the Council as follows:
   APPROVED by the Council of the City of Cannon Falls,
this                  day of                  , 20  .
         Signed                            , Mayor
         Attest                            , City Administrator
(Prior Code, § 12-6-1) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.091 FILING AND REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   The final plat application shall be considered to be officially filed
when city staff has received and examined the application and has determined
that the application is complete.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall consider the final plat and the Zoning
Administrator shall forward the Planning Commission recommendations to the City
Council.
   (C)   The following requirements shall be met before City Council
consideration of the final plat:
      (1)   The final plat shall substantially conform to the approved
preliminary plat and phasing plan;
      (2)   Completed development contract including all required financial
securities and timeframe for final plat and final grading;
      (3)   Conditions attached to approval of the preliminary plat shall be
fulfilled or secured by the development agreement, as appropriate; and
      (4)   All fees, charges and escrow related to the preliminary or final
plat shall be paid in full.
   (D)   The City Council shall act on the final plat by motion. The motion
shall include findings of fact supporting the approval or denial and shall be
entered in the proceedings of the City Council. The lack of a majority Council
vote to affirmatively approve the final plat shall be a denial of the requested
application.
   (E)   Within 60 days upon receiving a complete final plat application, the
City Council shall certify final plat approval or denial. If the City Council
approves the final plat, it may impose conditions it considers necessary to
protect the public health, safety and welfare. If the City Council denies the
final plat, it must state in writing the reasons for the denial at the time it
denies the request. The lack of a majority of the City Council to vote
affirmatively to approve a preliminary plat shall be a denial of the requested
application.
   (F)   No site work, including grading, shall be allowed until final plat
approval and recording.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-2) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.092 FORM AND CONTENT.
   The final plat shall be of the form and content as prescribed in the
Minnesota Land Surveyors Association Plat Manual of Minnesota Guidelines, as
may be amended.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-3) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.093 RECORDING.
   If the final plat and development contract are approved by the City Council,
the developer shall record the plat within 90 days after the date of approval.
Otherwise, the approval of the final plat shall be considered void, unless the
developer requests and receives an extension from the City Council. The city
may record the development contract immediately upon receipt of signatures. The
recording of final plats of multi-phased plats shall be addressed as part of
the development contract.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-4) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.094 AS-BUILT PLANS.
   Upon completion of construction of roads, sanitary sewer, water mains, storm
sewer facilities, grading and tree preservation, the developer shall submit to
the City Engineer two sets of construction plans and one electronic copy in a
format compatible with the city's computer system, indicating all changes in
the work, including accurate locations, dimensions, elevations, grades, slopes
and all other pertinent information concerning the complete work. Record plans
shall be completed by the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-5) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 151.105 CONFORMITY WITH THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND ZONING REGULATIONS.
   A proposed subdivision shall conform to the Comprehensive Plan, to related
policies adopted by the city, and to the city zoning regulations, as may be
amended.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-1) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.106 LAND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Land shall be suited to the purpose for which it is to be subdivided.
No plan shall be approved if the site is not suitable for the purposes proposed
by reason of potential flooding, topography, adverse soil conditions, rock
formations or wetlands.
   (B)   Proposed subdivisions shall be coordinated with surrounding properties
and/or neighborhoods, so that the city as a whole may develop efficiently and
harmoniously.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-2) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.107 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Length. The maximum length of blocks shall be 1,320 feet and the
minimum length 400 feet.
   (B)   Arrangement. A block shall be so designed as to provide two tiers of
lots unless it adjoins a major collector or an arterial street or where
topographic wetland or other conditions render the block arrangement
unreasonable.
   (C)   Block width. The width of the block shall normally be sufficient to
allow two tiers of lots of appropriate depth, except where topography or other
conditions render the block depth unreasonable.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-3) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.108 LOTS.
   (A)   Area. The minimum lot area, width and depth shall not be less than
that established by the city zoning regulations in effect at the time of
adoption of the final plat, except that those final plats adopted within two
years of the date of preliminary plat approval shall be subject to the minimum
lots requirements in effect at the time of preliminary plat approval.
   (B)   Corner lots. Corner lots for residential use shall have additional
width to permit appropriate building setback from both streets and a side yard
buffer yard where the side yard abuts a collector or arterial street as
required in the city zoning regulations.
   (C)   Side lot lines. Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right
angles to street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   (D)   Width. Every lot must have the minimum width measured at the minimum
front yard setback.
   (E)   Lot frontage. All lots shall have frontage on a public street that
provides the required lot width at the minimum front yard setback. Flag lots
are prohibited.
   (F)   Building sites. Each lot shall provide an adequate building site at
least 18 inches above the grade of the crown of the street. Elevations shall be
in accordance with the approved grading plan for the development.
   (G)   Single- and two-family lot access. All new single- and two-family
urban lots shall be designed to receive access from a local street.
   (H)   Access to arterial streets and major collector streets. In the case
where a proposed plat is adjacent to a major collector or arterial street, the
streets to be defined by the city's Comprehensive Plan, there shall be no
direct vehicular access from individual urban single-family or two-family lots
to the streets. In the platting of small tracts of land fronting on limited
access highways, arterial or major collector streets where there is no other
alternative, a temporary entrance may be granted, subject to terms and
conditions defined by the City Council and application to county or state
agencies. As neighboring land becomes subdivided and more preferable access
arrangements become possible, the temporary access permits shall become void.
In these cases where direct lot access to major collector or arterial streets
is allowed, special traffic safety measures including, but not limited,
provisions for on-site vehicle turn around shall be required. In cases where a
proposed plat is adjacent to the county or state highway, the plat shall be
subject to county and/or state approval.
   (I)   New commercial, industrial and multiple-family lots. New commercial,
industrial and multiple- family lots fronting on an arterial or major collector
street shall be designed to minimize the number of direct access points through
the following methods listed in preferential order. If the highest preference
is not possible, the next preference shall be utilized until an access method
is possible:
      (1)   Access from a local street;
      (2)   Frontage road serving multiple properties;
      (3)   Frontage driveway or connected parking lot with cross easements
serving multiple properties;
      (4)   Shared driveways; and
      (5)   One driveway access, no closer than 200 feet to another driveway
and that meets the city's minimum spacing standards from a street intersection.
All driveways shall be reviewed for consistency with the policies of the City
Comprehensive Plan.
   (J)   Setback lines. Setback or building lines shall be shown on all lots
intended for residential use and shall not be less than the setback required by
the city zoning regulations, as may be amended.
   (K)   Watercourses. Watercourses may be contained within abutting lots. A
minimum of a 30-foot buffer extending outward from the delineated wetland
boundary or the watercourse ordinary high water level shall also be provided.
   (L)   Grading for drainage. Lots shall be graded so as to provide drainage
away from building locations and shall conform to the approved final grading
plan. Stormwater drainage from an improved subdivision or lot shall not be
directed at an adjoining property at a rate above a predevelopment condition
except where drainage is directed to a designed drainage easement.
   (M)   Features. In the subdividing of any land, due regard shall be shown
for all natural features, such as tree growth, watercourses, historic places or
similar conditions which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and stability
to the proposed development.
   (N)   Frontage on two streets. Double frontage or lots with frontage on two
parallel streets shall not be permitted except where lots back on major
collector or arterial streets, county or state highways or where topographic or
other conditions render subdividing otherwise unreasonable. Additional lot
depth and a 20 foot wide landscaped buffer yard shall be provided where a lot
backs onto a major collector or arterial streets.
   (O)   Irregular shaped lots. On single-family residential lots determined to
be irregular in shape (e.g., triangular), the developer shall demonstrate to
the city an ability to properly place principal buildings and accessory
structures upon the site which are compatible in size and character to the
surrounding area.
   (P)   Building expansion. All single-family residential lots shall be
designed in consideration of potentials for buildings accommodating three stall
garages, porches and decks and the like without need for setback variance. The
buildings and structures are to be compatible in size and character with the
surrounding area.
   (Q)   Lot remnants/outlots. All remnants of lots below minimum lot size left
over after subdividing a larger tract must be added to adjacent lots rather
than allowed to remain as unusable parcels. Outlots may be platted within a
subdivision to delineate future development phases or commonly owned open
spaces. The outlot shall be sized in a manner to accommodate its intended use.
No building permits shall be issued for an outlot except for open air
structures allowed as a recreational component in an open space area.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-4) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.109 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Generally. The arrangement, character, extension, width, grade and
location of all streets shall conform to the City Engineering Standards and
Comprehensive Plan. Streets and alleys shall be considered in their relation to
existing and planned streets, to reasonable circulation of traffic, to
topographical conditions, to run-off of stormwater, to public convenience and
safety and in relation to proposed uses of land served by the streets.
   (B)   Streets.
      (1)   Streets, continuous. Except for cul-de-sacs, streets shall connect
with streets already dedicated in adjoining subdivisions, or provide for future
connections to adjoining unsubdivided tracts, or shall be a reasonable
projection of streets in the nearest subdivided tracts. The arrangement of
thoroughfares and collector streets shall be considered in their relation to
the reasonable circulation of traffic, topographic conditions, runoff of
stormwater, public convenience and safety, and in their appropriate relation to
the proposed uses of the area to be served.
      (2)   Arrangement of streets in a new subdivision. The arrangement of
streets in a new subdivision shall make provisions for the proper projection of
streets into adjoining areas by carrying the new streets to the boundaries of
the new subdivision at appropriate locations approved by the City Engineer.
      (3)   Temporary cul-de-sac. In those instances where a street is
terminated pending future extension in conjunction with future subdivision and
more than 200 feet between the dead-end and the nearest intersection, a
temporary turn around facility shall be provided at the closed end, in
conformance with cul-de-sac requirements. The temporary cul-de-sac shall be
placed inside a temporary roadway easement if it is located outside the street
right-of-way. At a time as that street is extended, the acreage covered by the
turn-around outside the boundaries of the extended street shall revert in
ownership to the property owner fronting on the temporary turn-around. The
temporary cul-de-sac shall be surfaced in bituminous and signed as a future
through street to alert the public that the road is planned to continue into
the next development upon future subdivision. Financial security will be
required for removal or restoration as determined by the City Engineer.
      (4)   Provisions for re-subdivision of large lots and parcels. When a
tract is subdivided into larger than normal building lots or parcels, the lots
or parcels shall be so arranged as to permit the logical location and openings
of future streets and appropriate resubdivision, with provision for adequate
utility connections for the resubdivision.
      (5)   Subdivisions abutting major rights-of-way. Wherever the proposed
subdivision contains or is adjacent to the right-of-way of a United States or
state highway, county road or local collector street, provision may be made for
a service street approximately parallel and adjacent to the boundary of the
right-of-way; provided that due consideration is given to proper circulation
design, setbacks from an intersection on the major rights-of-way, or for a
street at a distance suitable for the appropriate use of land between the
street and right-of-way. The distance shall be determined with due
consideration of the minimum distance required for approach connections to
future grade separations and for lot depths.
      (6)   Widths. Right-of-way widths and pavement widths (face to face) of
curb shall be as follows.
Classification Right-of-Way Pavement Width
Classification          Right-of-Way Pavement Width
Cul-de-sac radius       60 feet      45 feet
Cul-de-sac street       60 feet      32 feet
Major collector/parkway 100 feet     Determined by City Engineer
Minor collector         80 feet      Determined by City Engineer
Residential street      60 feet      32 feet
Service road            50 feet      28 feet
Alleys                  32 feet      16 feet
 
      (7)   Street intersections. Insofar as practical, streets shall intersect
at right angles, and in no case shall the angle formed by the intersection of
two streets be less than 60 degrees. Intersections having more than four
corners shall be prohibited. Adequate land for future intersections and
interchange construction needs shall be dedicated.
      (8)   Deflections. When connecting street lines deflect from each other,
or when a single street deflects at one point by more than ten degrees, they
shall be connected by a curve with a radius adequate to ensure a sight distance
of not less than 500 feet for arterials, 300 feet for collectors and 200 feet
for all other streets. The City Council may allow greater or lesser sight
distances and of radii as the City Engineer shall determine for special cases.
      (9)   Street intersection offsets. Street intersection jogs shall have a
centerline off-set of 150 feet or more when applied to minor streets and
service streets. In all other cases they shall be avoided.
      (10)   Tangents. A tangent of at least 100 feet shall be introduced
between points of reverse curves of arterial and collector streets.
      (11)   Cul-de-sacs. The maximum length of a street terminating in a cul-
de-sac shall be 500 feet measured from the centerline of the street of origin
to the end of the right-of-way.
      (12)   Centerline gradients. All centerline gradients shall be at least
0.5%and shall not exceed 8%.
      (13)   Vertical curves. Changes in grade shall be connected by vertical
curves and shall meet the requirements for a 30 mph roadway.
      (14)   Marginal access streets. Marginal access streets shall be so
aligned that their use by through traffic is discouraged.
      (15)   Service streets. Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing
or planned major thoroughfare or a railroad right-of-way, the City Council may
require a street approximately parallel to and on each side of the right-of-way
for adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation of
through and local traffic. The service streets shall be located at a distance
from the major thoroughfare or railroad right-of-way suitable for the
appropriate use of the intervening land, as for park purposes in residential
districts, or for commercial or industrial purposes in appropriate districts.
The distances shall also be determined with due regard for the requirements of
approach grades and future grade separations.
      (16)   Half streets. Half streets shall be prohibited, except where
essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with
the other requirements of this chapter; and except where the City Council finds
it practicable to require dedication of the other half when adjoining property
is subdivided. In those cases, the developer shall provide an escrow in an
amount determined necessary to construct the full street. Wherever there is a
half street adjacent to a tract to be subdivided, the other half of the street
shall be platted within the tract prior to the granting of access.
      (17)   Private streets. Except as may be allowed through planned unit
development, private streets shall not be approved nor shall public
improvements be approved for any private streets.
      (18)   Reserve strips. Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall
be prohibited except under conditions approved by the City Council.
      (19)   Access management requirements. In the case where a proposed plat
is adjacent to a limited access highway, there shall be no direct vehicular or
pedestrian access from individual lots to the highways. As a general
requirement, access to limited access highways shall be at intervals of not
less than one-quarter mile on county roads and one-quarter or one-half mile on
state highways in accordance with the State DOT Access Management Plan. Any
proposed access shall be subject to state, county and city approval as may be
applicable.
      (20)   Platting of small tracts. In the platting of small tracts of land
fronting on a limited access highway where there is no convenient access to
existing entrances and where access from the plat would be closer than one-half
mile from an existing access point, a temporary entrance permit for a period
not exceeding two years may be granted, Provision shall be made in those plats
for the connection of roads to neighboring land. As the neighboring land is
platted and developed, and access becomes possible at a preferred location, the
temporary entrance permits shall become void at the discretion of the city.
      (21)   Access of local streets. Access of local streets onto arterial and
collector streets shall be discouraged at intervals of less than 500 feet.
      (22)   Abutting or containing an existing street of inadequate width.
Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing street of inadequate width,
sufficient additional width shall be provided within the subdivision to meet
the standards of this chapter.
      (23)   Additional right-of-way and roadway widths. Additional right-of-
way and roadway widths may be required by the Council to promote public safety
and convenience when special conditions require it.
      (24)   Dedication. All proposed streets shown on the plat shall be in
conformity to city, county and state plans and standards and be offered for
dedication as public streets unless otherwise determined by the City Council.
      (25)   Grading. The full width of the right-of-way of all streets and
alleys dedicated in the plat shall be graded to the lines and cross sections as
shown on the grading plan submitted to and approved by the City Engineer.
Exceptions to the width of grading may be granted where topography or tree
cover warrant.
      (26)   Soil investigation. To determine subgrade soils classification and
bearing capacity of the soils in the proposed development, a soil investigation
report shall be prepared under the supervision of a soils engineer associated
with a qualified soils testing service and be provided to the City Engineer.
The report shall contain the design recommendation for street section based on
seven ton design. In proposed streets, soils investigation shall be performed
at intervals not to exceed 500 lineal feet. The soil borings completed during
the investigation shall be at least ten feet in depth below the proposed
finished grade and five feet below the proposed elevations of utilities. Ground
water levels shall be reported at each boring. Elevations shall be in mean sea
level datum. Locations of borings shall be measured in the field and accurately
shown on the plans.
      (27)   Base and surfacing. All streets shall be improved with a concrete
or bituminous surface. Streets to be paved shall be surfaced for a seven-ton
axle weight capacity using current State Highway Department design standards
and in accordance with city standard design detail plates. Except in the case
of model homes, as may be approved by the city, no building permit shall be
issued for any lot or parcel in a subdivision prior to the installation of the
base course of bituminous. The wear course of bituminous shall be placed
following the construction season or, if so designated by the City Council, up
to two years from the date of final plat approval. Exceptions to this provision
may be granted by the City Council at their discretion as part of a development
contract.
      (28)   Concrete curb and gutter. All curb shall be concrete with integral
gutter. The standard curb shall be in accordance with the city standards plate
book.
      (29)   Boulevards. All boulevards shall have four inches of topsoil
(black dirt) placed on them and then shall be sodded or seeded. Boulevard turf
shall be established within one year of planting.
      (30)   Sidewalks. Concrete sidewalks, four inches thick except at
driveways where greater thickness shall be required, five-feet wide in
residential areas and of a width as directed in other areas, are required as
described in §
151.110 of this chapter. Sidewalks shall be installed prior to the installation
of the bituminous wear course. The developer shall notify all lot purchasers of
sidewalk construction plans.
      (31)   Driveways. Concrete driveways shall be constructed from the curb
to the property line. In cases where driveways are constructed after curbing
and sidewalks are in place, the sidewalk for the width of the driveway shall be
reconstructed to driveway specifications. Where driveways shall be permitted to
access onto thoroughfare or collector streets, provisions shall be made for an
on-site turn around area which would provide access to the thoroughfare or
collector street in a forward direction. All driveway aprons between the back
of curb and sidewalk shall be concrete.
      (32)   Lighting. Street lights conforming to city specifications shall be
installed at the locations approved by the City Engineer. Easements may be
required along property lines from utility easements on rear lot lines to
rights-of-way so as to provide for a street light interval not to exceed 500
feet.
      (33)   Signs. All signs shall be installed in accordance with a city
approved sign plan. Four-way metal street signs shall be installed at each
street intersection. Letters shall be at least three and one-half inches high,
green on a white background.
      (34)   Street trees. In all new subdivisions, street and yard trees shall
be planted in accordance with applicable landscaping and screening requirements
of the zoning regulations. Street trees shall be planted not less than 40 feet
apart and shall be placed five to seven feet inside the property line and not
in the "boulevard." No trees shall be planted within 30 feet of the
intersection of curb lines on corner lots.
      (35)   Streets in flood hazard area. No street shall be approved if its
final surface is at a lower elevation than one foot below the regulatory flood
protection elevation. The City Council may require profiles and elevations of
finished streets for areas subject to flooding. Fill may be used for streets,
provided the fill does not unduly increase flood heights and provided any fill
would not result in a stage increase violating the requirements of M.S.
Chapters 106 and 106A, as they may be amended from time to time, supplemented
or replaced from time to time and any applicable requirements imposed by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency pursuant to its rules and regulations.
Drainage openings shall not restrict the flow of water so as to unduly increase
flood heights and provided any drainage opening would not violate the
requirements of M.S. Chapters 104 and 105, as they may be amended from time to
time, supplemented or replaced from time to time and any applicable
requirements imposed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency pursuant to its
rules and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-5) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.110 SIDEWALKS AND TRAILS.
   Except as otherwise determined by the City Council, concrete sidewalks not
less than five feet in width and/or bituminous trails not less than eight feet
in width shall be provided in accordance with the following.
 
Street Type                          Sidewalk/Trail Requirements
                                     Sidewalk on one side of street and trail
Arterial and major collector streets on opposite side of the street or trails
                                     on both sides of the street*
Cul-de-sacs                          No requirements
Minor collector and local streets,   Sidewalk on one side of street*
excepting cul-de-sacs
*   All sidewalks and trails shall be placed back from the street wherever
possible to provide a minimum of 5-foot wide green strip for tree planting and
to promote pedestrian safety and reassurance
 
(Prior Code, § 12-7-6) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.111 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Lot lines.
      (1)   Drainage and utility easements at least ten feet wide shall be
provided on all lot lines (see diagram below).
      (2)   These easements may be centered on common rear and side lot lines.
At a minimum, these easements shall be ten-feet wide along all lot lines on
streets and along all boundaries with land not being developed. The easements
shall provide continuity of alignment from block to block. At deflection
points, an easement for a pole line anchor shall be provided where necessary.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ca8d3e3c632d9f3ebbd97ba13905b1b6ba248b11/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2147.jpg]
 
   (B)   Drainage channels. Easements shall be provided along each side of the
centerline of any waterway or drainage channel. The easements shall be of a
sufficient width to provide for proper maintenance and protection of the
waterway or channel, stormwater runoff and the installation and maintenance of
drainage systems. Easements for drainage purposes shall be of a width
determined by the City Engineer and shall be provided city access.
   (C)   Utilities. Easements shall be provided for all sanitary sewer, water
main and stormwater facilities. The easements shall be of a sufficient width to
provide for city access, proper maintenance and protection of the facilities.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-7) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.112 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   Water main. Water main size shall be a minimum eight-inch diameter.
Water main shall be ductile iron pipe and shall meet all the requirements of
the City Engineer's Association of Minnesota standard utility specification for
water main and service line installation and American Water Works Association
standard.
      (1)   Mains shall be valved at intervals not to exceed 800 feet. Valve
type shall be in accordance with city standard specifications.
      (2)   "Dead end" mains shall be looped if exceeding the allowed length of
a cul-de-sac. The distribution system may require installing a larger main to
benefit the entire water service in the city. The City Engineer shall determine
location and size of mains larger than eight inches in residential areas. In
commercial/industrial areas, water main up to 12 inches may be required to meet
normal distribution required in the development. The cost of normal
distribution size and appurtenances shall be the responsibility of the
developer. Size of pipe over and above the normal shall be installed and
financed in accordance with city policy.
   (B)   Water supply. New individual wells are not permitted.
   (C)   Fire hydrants. Installation shall be pursuant to plans approved by the
City Engineer and the City Fire Department and shall be located in accordance
with Insurance Service Office (ISO) standards. Hydrants shall be placed at the
end of all "dead ends," cul-de-sacs and at street intersections. Hydrant type
and installation shall be in accordance with city standard specifications.
   (D)   Sanitary sewer. Sanitary sewer shall be a minimum of eight-inch pipe
and shall be of a material approved for use in the city by the City Engineer.
Sanitary sewer grades and installation shall conform to the Recommended
Standards for Sewage Works latest edition by the Great Lakes - Upper
Mississippi River Board of State Sanitary Engineers and the City Engineer's
Association of Minnesota standard utilities specification for sanitary sewer.
Main size will be determined by the sewage flow and grade in accordance with
the City Comprehensive Development Study.
      (1)   Size of pipe. Size of pipe shall be determined by lateral service
and/or trunk service. Trunk service shall be the responsibility of the property
served. The City Council shall establish cost distribution policy. Lateral
service shall be the responsibility of, and cost shall be borne by, the
serviced property.
      (2)   House services. All services shall be installed in accordance with
the city's standard specifications. Each house service shall be run from the
main to the property line, where a cap or plug shall be placed until service is
extended to the structure. Four inch PVC plastic pipe, or approved equal, sewer
service shall be the minimum requirements.
      (3)   Electronic final design plans. Electronic final design plans shall
be submitted to the city to allow the completion of record plans by the City
Engineer.
   (E)   Sanitation. Water and sewer lines shall be installed and connected to
the public system to serve all lots within the proposed subdivision under the
provisions of applicable statutes and ordinances. The City Council shall
require the installation of water and sewer mains at the applicant's expense or
under the provisions of applicable statutes and ordinances.
   (F)   Public utilities. Telephone, electric, cable, gas service lines and/or
other public utilities are to be placed underground in accordance with city
standards.
      (1)   Developers shall apply for city permits to install underground
utilities in public rights-of-way.
      (2)   The city shall approve all utilities prior to installation.
      (3)   Public utilities shall be installed in a joint trench in accordance
with city standards.
      (4)   Conduit shall be installed for all road crossings.
      (5)   Public utility installation shall not occur until one week after
all curb has been backfilled.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-8) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.113 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Stormwater drainage facilities. The developer shall submit a
stormwater management plan to the city. Stormwater drainage facilities shall
comply with all federal, state and local requirements and be designed to convey
the flow of surface waters without damage to persons or property. The system
shall ensure drainage at all points along streets, and provide positive
drainage away from building as well as on-site waste disposal to accommodate
frequent floods. Drainage plans shall be consistent with local and regional
drainage plans. The facilities shall be designed to protect against surface
erosion and siltation of surface water and to prevent the discharge of excess
runoff onto adjacent properties. The natural drainage shall be used as far as
is feasible for the storage and flow of runoff. The following requirements
shall also apply.
      (1)   No existing ditch, stream, drain or drainage channel shall be
deepened, widened, re-routed or filled without written permission from the City
Engineer and other appropriate governmental agencies.
      (2)   Where drainage channels must be constructed to augment the natural
drainage system, the channels, as well as natural drainageways, may be planned
as a part of a recreational trail system. When this is done, channels shall be
designed to be aesthetically compatible for recreational trail use.
   (B)   Stormwater drainage standards.
      (1)   All developments are responsible for control of surface or
stormwater to equal or improve pre-development conditions.
      (2)   The developer shall complete all water quality improvements.
      (3)   Development drainage systems shall be provided that:
         (a)   Accept flow from upstream areas;
         (b)   Control, convey and pond development runoff;
         (c)   Limit outflow to the natural pre-development rate; and
         (d)   Do not have detrimental impacts on downstream properties.
      (4)   All pipe conveyance shall be of ten-year design return frequency.
Flood protection shall be provided for 100 years. All ponding, detention or
retention shall be designed for 100-year frequency storm condition with a
positive outlet. Flood protection for public and personal property shall be one
foot plus any encroachment above the floodplain. All storm runoff shall be
calculated by the Soil Conservation Service Method TR55.
   (C)   City Engineer. The City Engineer shall approve all subdivision
grading, drainage and wetland mitigation plans.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-9) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.114 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.
   The following guidelines shall be applied in the subdivision.
   (A)   The development shall be constructed to allow all development to
comply with the requirements of the State Pollution Control Agency Phase II
stormwater permit.
   (B)   The development shall conform to natural limitations presented by
topography and soil to prevent soil erosion.
   (C)   Land shall be developed in increments of workable size so that
adequate erosion and siltation controls can be provided as construction
progresses. Appropriate prevent control measures shall be installed prior to
development when necessary to control erosion. The smallest practical area of
land shall be exposed at any one period of time.
   (D)   When soil is exposed, the exposure shall be for a time period as
outlined by the State Pollution Control Agency Phase II stormwater permit.
   (E)   Where the topsoil is removed, sufficient arable soil shall be set
aside for re-spreading over the areas to be planted. The soil shall be restored
to a minimum depth of four inches or a depth as may be established by the City
Engineer and shall be of a quality at least equal to the soil quality prior to
development.
   (F)   Natural vegetation shall be protected wherever possible.
   (G)   As determined by the City Engineer, runoff water shall be diverted to
a sedimentation basin before allowed to enter the natural drainage system.
Stormwater runoff from the developed site shall not, at any time, exceed the
rate existing prior to development except as may be approved by the City
Council.
   (H)   The city shall have the authority to remove the topsoil for its own
purposes from all dedicated streets within its corporate boundaries. The
topsoil shall be utilized in the development project from which it is taken
unless otherwise specified as part of a development agreement.
   (I)   Erosion control measures/devices shall not be removed from a
development site until a time as the City Engineer determines that the need for
the measures/devices no longer exists.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-10) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.115 PROTECTED AREAS.
   (A)   Where land proposed for subdivision is deemed environmentally
sensitive by the city, due to the existence of wetlands, drainageways,
watercourses, floodable areas or steep slopes, the design of the subdivision
shall clearly reflect all necessary measures of protection to ensure against
adverse environmental impact.
   (B)   Based upon the necessity to control and maintain certain sensitive
areas, the city shall determine whether the protection will be accomplished
through lot enlargement and redesign or dedication of those sensitive areas in
the form of outlots.
   (C)   In general, measures of protection shall include design solutions
which allow for construction and grading involving a minimum of alteration to
sensitive areas. Where these areas are to be incorporated into lots within the
proposed subdivision, the subdivider shall be required to demonstrate that the
proposed design will not require construction on slopes over 18%, or result in
significant alteration to the wetlands, floodplains or natural drainage
systems, so that adverse impacts cannot be contained within the plat boundary.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-11) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.116 SIGNS.
   (A)   As part of preliminary plat application, the subdivider shall identify
all signs associated with the proposed plat, including, but not limited to,
neighborhood identification signs, street signs, traffic control signs, wetland
demarcation signs or other signs related to the proposed subdivision.
   (B)   The type, size and location of signs shall be subject to approval of
the city.
   (C)   Installation shall be at the expense of the developer.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-12) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
PUBLIC LAND DEDICATION
§ 151.130 PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES (PARK LAND DEDICATION).
   (A)   Requirement. As a prerequisite to final plat approval, and at the sole
determination by the city, applicants and/or developers shall dedicate land for
parks, playgrounds, public open spaces or trails and/or shall make a cash
contribution to the city's Park and Trail Fund roughly related to the
anticipated effect of the plat on the park and trail system. The amounts listed
in this section are the city's best estimate of the dedication or cash
contribution needed to offset the effect on those systems. The requirement may
also be satisfied with a combination of land and cash if approved by the City
Council.
   (B)   Land eligibility.
      (1)   The land dedicated for parks and trails shall be in addition to
property dedicated for streets, alleys, easements or other public ways. Land to
be dedicated shall be reasonably suitable for its intended use as determined by
the city and shall be at a location convenient to the public to be served.
Factors used in evaluating the adequacy of proposed park and recreation areas
shall include size, shape, topography, geology, hydrology, tree cover, access
and location.
      (2)   To be eligible for park dedication credit, land dedicated is to be
located outside of drainageways, wetlands, floodplains or ponding areas. Grades
exceeding 12% or areas unsuitable for park development shall not be considered
for dedication as defined by the City Engineer. Park land to be dedicated shall
be above the ordinary high water level as approved by the City Engineer.
      (3)   Land area conveyed or dedicated to the city shall not be used in
calculating density requirements of the city zoning regulations and shall be in
addition to and not in lieu of open space requirements for planned unit
developments.
      (4)   Where private open space for park and recreation purposes is
provided in a proposed subdivision, the areas shall not be used for credit
against the requirement of dedication for park and recreation purposes, unless
the City Council finds it is in the public interest to do so.
      (5)   The park and/or trail dedication requirements of this section shall
be in addition to, and not in lieu of, sidewalk installation requirements of
the city.
   (C)   Applicant conference. The applicant shall confer with city staff and
the Parks Commission at the time the preliminary plat is under consideration to
secure a recommendation as to the location of any property that should be
dedicated to the public, such as parks, playgrounds or other public property
for recreational use. The preliminary plat shall show the location and
dimensions of all areas to be dedicated in this manner. The contribution
requirement recommendation(s) will be sent to the Planning Commission for
review and comment and subsequently to the City Council for its approval.
   (D)   Consistency with plans.
      (1)   When a proposed park, playground, recreational area or other public
ground has been indicated in the city's official map, Comprehensive Plan or
Parks and Trails Plan and is located in whole or in part within a proposed
plat, it shall be dedicated to the city. If the applicant elects not to
dedicate an area in excess of the land required hereunder for a proposed public
site that the city feels is in the public interest to acquire, the city may
consider acquiring the excess land through purchase or condemnation.
      (2)   All land proposed for trail dedication shall be subject to
recommendations of the Parks Commission and approval by the City Council. The
lands shall also correspond and conform with the city's Parks and Trails Plan.
   (E)   Dedication requirements. The city, upon consideration of the
particular type of development, may require that a lesser parcel of land should
be dedicated due to particular features of the development. In those cases, a
cash contribution shall be required above the land dedication to ensure that
compensation is received for the full amount of the impact on the city's park
and trail system.
      (1)   Land dedications. In all new subdivisions where land dedication is
to be required, 10% of the gross area subdivided, or a different percentage as
the City Council determines necessary as a result of the subdivision approval,
shall be dedicated for public parks, trails or open space.
      (2)   Cash contributions. When a subdivision is proposed, the developer
shall make a land dedication for public park use, or the city may require a fee
in lieu of the land dedication as follows, which are the city's best estimate
of the effect of the subdivision on the city's park system.
 
Fee in Lieu of Land Dedication
Residential development $1,400 per dwelling unit
Commercial development  $3,000 per gross acre
Industrial development  $2,000 per gross acre
 
      (3)   Combined land dedication/cash contributions. The city may elect at
its sole discretion to receive a combination of cash, land and development of
the land for park and/or trail use. Combined park land and cash dedications
shall be calculated based upon the following procedure.
         (a)   Residential developments.
STEP ONE: Determine maximum number of units possible within the development
without park land dedication:
Net acres x average density = number of units
STEP TWO: Determine maximum cash contribution which could be received without
park land dedication:
Number of units/lots (from Step 1) x $1,400 = maximum cash contribution
STEP THREE: Determine percentage of park land dedication:
Acres to be dedicated + total land dedication requirement = percent of land
dedication
STEP FOUR: Determine balance of cash fee:
Maximum cash contribution (from Step 2) x percent of land dedication (from Step
3) = balance of cash fee
 
         (b)   Commercial and industrial developments.
 
STEP ONE: Determine maximum cash contribution which could be received without
park land dedication:
Net acres x commercial or industrial charge per acre = maximum cash
contribution
STEP TWO: Determine percentage of park land dedication:
Acres to be dedicated + total land dedication requirement = percent of land
dedication
STEP THREE: Determine balance of cash fee:
Maximum cash contribution (from Step 1) x percent of land dedication (from Step
2) = balance of cash fee
 
      (4)   Planned unit developments. Planned unit developments with mixed
land uses shall make cash and/or land contributions in accordance with this
section based upon the percentage of land devoted to the various uses.
      (5)   Cash payment requirements.
         (a)   Park cash contributions shall be calculated and established at
the time of final plat approval. The City Council may require the payment at
the time of final plat approval or at a later time under terms agreed upon in
the development agreement. Delayed payment shall include interest at a rate set
by the city.
         (b)   Cash contributions for parks and trails shall be deposited in
either the city's Park Fund or Trail Fund and shall only be used for park
acquisition or development, and trail acquisition or development as determined
by the city. Additionally, the funds may be utilized anywhere within the city
park and trail systems.
      (6)   Replatted property. Property being replatted with the same number
of lots and same number of dwelling units shall be exempt from all park land
dedication requirements. If the number of lots or the number of dwelling units
is increased, or if land outside the previously recorded plat is added, then
the park land dedication and/or park cash contribution shall be based on the
additional lots and on the additional land being added to the plat. If the
additional land does not create additional lots, then each one-third acre added
shall be considered a new lot for purposes of calculating the dedication
requirements.
      (7)   Park maintenance. When land is dedicated and deeded to the city for
park purposes, it shall be the responsibility of the city to maintain the
dedicated property.
      (8)   Platting requirements. Land dedication to the city shall be in the
form of outlots and shall provide adequate public access (as determined by the
city).
      (9)   Request for park study. If the applicant or developer does not
believe that the estimates contained in this section fairly and accurately
represent the effect of the subdivision on the park or trail system of the
city, the applicant or developer may request that the city prepare an in-depth
study of the effect of the subdivision on the park and trail system and an
estimate of that effect in money and/or land. All costs of the study shall be
borne by the developer or applicant. If the developer or applicant requests the
preparation of a study, the request must be made at the time the development
application is submitted. The city shall provide the applicant or developer
written notice that the application for development that is submitted shall be
deemed incomplete until the requested study has been completed and a
determination is made as to the appropriate amount of land or money necessary
to offset the effects of the subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-1) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
TREE PRESERVATION
§ 151.145 PURPOSE.
   The city finds it is in the best interest of the public to protect, preserve
and enhance the natural environment and to encourage a resourceful and prudent
approach to the development and alteration of wooded areas. In the interest of
achieving these objectives, the city has established the tree preservation
regulations herein.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-1) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.146 SCOPE OF APPLICATION.
   A tree preservation plan shall be submitted to and approved by the city and
implemented in accordance with all subdivisions of five or more lots. If no
significant trees or woodlands are present on the site, a tree preservation
plan will not be required.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-2) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.147 TREE PRESERVATION FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Required actions. Applicants shall:
      (1)   Incorporate the preservation of trees into the overall design of
the plat;
      (2)   Prepare a tree preservation plan superimposed on the grading plan,
as described below;
      (3)   Ensure the tree preservation plan is followed during the plan
development (mass grading);
      (4)   Provide a financial guarantee as part of the development agreement
to guarantee the preparation and implementation of the preservation plan and
the replacement of all significant trees which were to be saved but were
actually destroyed or damaged. The financial security in an amount determined
by the City Council and adopted by ordinance shall be provided for:
         (a)   Each mass graded lot with at least one significant tree to be
saved;
         (b)   Each custom graded lot with at least one significant tree on the
lot; and
         (c)   Each outlot with at least one significant tree.
      (5)   Install snow fencing or polyethylene laminar safety netting at the
drip line or critical root zones of trees to be saved;
      (6)   Install signage at all tree protection areas that instructs workers
to stay out;
      (7)   Install erosion control measures;
      (8)   Keep tree protection measures in place and in good condition until
all grading and construction activity is terminated; and
      (9)   Prevent change in soil chemistry due to concrete wash out and
leakage or spillage of toxic materials such as fuels or paints.
   (B)   Prohibited actions.
      (1)   No soil disturbance shall occur within the subdivision until the
tree preservation plan is approved, financial securities have been submitted
and development agreement approved and tree protection measures are in place on
site.
      (2)   Construction staging areas and areas for the storage of equipment
and stockpiling of materials shall not be within tree protection areas.
      (3)   Fill shall not be placed against tree trunks, under the drip line
or in critical root zones of trees to be saved.
      (4)   Pruning of oak trees shall not take place from April 1 through July
15. If wounding of oak trees occurs, a non-toxic tree wound dressing must be
applied immediately. Excavators shall have a non-toxic tree wound dressing with
them on the development site.
   (C)   Tree preservation plan. The tree preservation plan shall be submitted
by a forester or landscape architect retained by the applicant and shall
consist of the following items:
      (1)   Tree inventory that includes the size, species, tag numbers and
locations of all significant trees, specimen trees and significant tree stands
on the property being platted;
      (2)   Mass graded areas and proposed grades. Changes in grades should be
well planned with the objective of preserving significant trees;
      (3)   Custom graded lots;
      (4)   All significant trees proposed to be saved and significant trees
proposed to be removed in soil disturbance areas;
      (5)   The plan shall designate tree save zones for:
         (a)   Areas not in soil disturbance areas or within 50 feet of those
areas;
         (b)   All specimen trees to be saved; and
         (c)   All significant tree stands to be saved.
      (6)   Measures proposed to protect significant trees including, but not
limited to:
         (a)   Tree removal procedures including directional felling away from
existing trees to be saved and trenching to separate root systems prior to
bulldozing trees or stumps;
         (b)   Installation of signage at all tree protection areas that
instructs workers to stay out;
         (c)   Installation of snow fencing or polyethylene laminar safety
netting at the drip line or critical root zones of trees to be saved;
         (d)   Installation of erosion control measures;
         (e)   Designation of a construction staging area along with a
designated area for the storage of equipment and stockpiling of materials that
is not within tree save zones;
         (f)   Construction access locations; and
         (g)   Overlay of the subdivision utility plan on the tree preservation
plan to strategically lay out utility locations and trenches in a manner that
protects trees to be saved. Individual utility stubs to home sites shall be
reviewed for compliance with tree preservation plans.
   (D)   Certification of plan implementation. After mass grading has been
completed and streets and utilities installed, the subdivider's forester or
landscape architect shall:
      (1)   Certify in writing to the city the status of all trees indicated as
trees to be saved in the approved plan;
      (2)   Certify in writing to the city whether tree protection measures
were installed; and
      (3)   Certify the status of any remove-designated trees that were saved.
   (E)   Damaged trees. If a significant tree indicated to be saved on the tree
preservation plan is destroyed or damaged, the applicant shall be replaced in
accordance with the tree replacement requirements of §
151.149 of this chapter.
   (F)   Release of financial security. The financial security will be released
upon:
      (1)   Certification in writing by the forester or landscape architect
indicating that the tree protection measures were installed on mass graded lots
and tree replacement is completed, if necessary. These must be confirmed by the
city; and
      (2)   The home builders having posted a security for the custom graded
lots.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-3) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.148 CUSTOM GRADED LOTS/HOME BUILDERS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Required actions.
      (1)   Home builders shall furnish the following items for tree
preservation at the time the building permit application is submitted for all
lots with at least one significant tree identified for preservation in a
subdivision tree preservation plan.
         (a)   A tree preservation plan with the elements described in division
(C) below of this chapter. The individual lot tree preservation plan shall be
certified by a forester or landscape architect and signed by the homebuilder or
homeowner.
         (b)   A financial security in an amount determined by the City
Council, and adopted by ordinance, shall be required for tree protection
requirements for each lot or outlot with at least one significant tree to be
saved and each lot that is a custom graded lot.
      (2)   Builders shall be liable for their subcontractors that destroy or
damage significant trees that were indicated to be saved on the individual lot
tree preservation plan.
      (3)   Tree protection measures shall remain in place until all grading
and construction ability is terminated.
      (4)   Site grading for individual lots shall comply with the final
grading plan of the plat and shall not result in the flooding of tree
preservation areas.
   (B)   Prohibited actions.
      (1)   No soil disturbance shall occur within the lot until the tree
preservation plan is approved and tree protection measures are in place.
      (2)   Pruning of oak trees shall not take place from April 15 through
July 1. If wounding of oak trees occurs, a non-toxic tree wound dressing must
be applied immediately. Excavators shall have a non-toxic tree wound dressing
with them on the development site.
      (3)   Builders, contractors or others working on site shall not fill,
stockpile materials or store equipment or vehicles against the trunk of the
tree, in the critical root zone, or under the drip line of a tree to be saved.
   (C)   Tree preservation plan.
      (1)   On mass graded lots with at least one significant tree to be saved,
home builders are required to follow the tree preservation plan for the plat.
      (2)   For each custom graded lot with at least one significant tree, the
home builder shall submit an individual lot tree preservation plan. The plan
shall be consistent with the original tree preservation plan for the plat. The
homeowner and/or home builder, forester or landscape architect shall meet with
city staff prior to the development of the individual lot tree preservation
plan to determine the placement of the home where the fewest significant trees
would be destroyed or damaged. The home builder shall be responsible for
ensuring the tree preservation plan is followed during building construction.
      (3)   The tree preservation plan shall be prepared and incorporated on
the certificate of survey for a building permit and shall include the
following:
         (a)   Size, species and location of all significant trees, specimen
trees and significant tree stands including significant trees with drip lines
or critical root zones extending over the lot line of an adjoining lot;
         (b)   Identification of all significant trees proposed to be saved and
significant trees proposed to be removed, including significant trees with drip
lines or critical root zones extending over the lot line of an adjoining lot;
         (c)   Location of snow fencing or polyethylene laminar safety netting
placed at the drip line or critical root zones;
         (d)   Installation of signage at all tree protection areas that
instructs workers to stay out;
         (e)   Erosion control methods; and
         (f)   Measures proposed to protect significant trees including but not
limited to:
            1.   Tree removal procedures including directional felling away
from existing trees to be saved and trenching to separate root system prior to
bulldozing trees or stumps;
            2.   Coordination of utility planning with tree preservation plan
to strategically extend utility connections from the street to the house in a
manner that protects trees intended to be saved; and
            3.   Measures for preventing changes in soil chemistry due to
concrete wash out and leakage or spillage of toxic materials such as fuels or
paints.
         (g)   Creation of a temporary access road when temporary site access
through a significant tree stand or a critical root zone of a significant tree
to be saved is necessary that meets the following standards.
            1.   The temporary access road shall be routed in a manner that is
least disruptive to the significant tree stand per the approval of the Zoning
Administrator.
            2.   Temporary access roads shall not exceed 25 feet in width and
shall be delineated by snow fencing or safety fencing.
            3.   An eight inch deep cover of wood chip mulch shall be placed
over the temporary access road to cushion the critical root zones from
compaction.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator shall monitor the tree protection measures
at the time of routing inspections.
      (5)   If tree replacement is required on the individual lot because the
builder destroyed or damaged a tree which was to be saved, the forester or
landscape architect in conjunction with the property owner shall determine
where the replacement trees shall be installed. Tree replacement shall be
consistent with §
151.149 of this chapter.
      (6)   Prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy and release of
tree preservation security, the forester or landscape architect shall certify
to the city in writing the final disposition of saved trees on the lot and that
all the tree protection measures identified on the tree preservation plan were
installed from the start of construction to the end of construction and tree
replacement is completed, if necessary.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-4) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.149 TREE PLACEMENT.
   (A)   Replacement of significant trees. Subdividers and/or home builders
shall be required to replace significant trees which were indicated on the tree
preservation plan to be saved but ultimately were destroyed or damaged. The
subdivider and home builder shall be required to replace each significant tree
destroyed or damaged with two replacement trees.
   (B)   Replacement trees; size. Replacement trees shall consist of nursery
stock and be no less than the following sizes.
 
Coniferous trees No less than 6 feet high
Deciduous trees  No less than 2.5 inches in diameter
 
   (C)   Replacement trees; species. Replacement trees shall be species similar
to the trees which were destroyed or damaged and can include those species
shown on the following table.
Coniferous trees Austrian pine
                 Black Hills spruce
                 Eastern red cedar
                 Fir
                 Northern white cedar
                 Red pine
                 White pine
                 White spruce
Deciduous trees  Birch
                 Hackberry
                 Honey locust
                 Linden
                 Maple
                 Oak
 
   (D)   Unacceptable trees. The following trees are unacceptable because of
structural instability, susceptibility to disease or because they are invasive
species.
 
Coniferous Colorado spruce
Deciduous  Amur maple
           Cottonwood (seed producing)
           Siberian elm
           Silver maple
           Ash
 
   (E)   Replacement trees; placement. Replacement trees shall not be placed on
easements or street rights-of-way. The Zoning Administrator shall determine the
locations of tree replacement for subdividers' tree plans.
   (F)   Replacement trees; removal and replacement. Any replacement tree which
is not alive or healthy, as determined by the Zoning Administrator, or which
subsequently dies due to construction activity within one year after the date
of project closure, shall be removed by the applicant and replaced with a new
healthy tree meeting the same minimum size requirements within eight months of
removal.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-5) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.150 REVIEW PROCESS.
   The tree preservation plan shall be reviewed by city staff to assess the
best possible layout to preserve significant trees and significant woodlands
and to enhance the efforts to minimize damage to significant trees and
significant woodlands. The applicant shall meet with the city prior to
submittal of the subdivision application or prior to application for the
grading permit, whichever is sooner, to determine the most feasible and
practical placement of buildings, parking, driveways, streets, storage and
other physical features, in order that the fewest significant trees and
significant tree stands are destroyed or damaged. The subdivision tree
preservation plan shall follow the preliminary plat/final plat review process.
Individual lot tree preservation plans shall be processed with the building
permit.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-6) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.151 REMOVAL OF DISEASED TREES REQUIRED.
   Prior to any grading, all diseased and hazardous trees on the subject
property shall be removed from the property.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-7) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 151.152 COMPLIANCE WITH PLAN.
   (A)   The applicant shall implement the tree preservation plan prior to and
during any construction.
   (B)   The tree protection measures of the plan shall remain in place until
all grading and construction activity is terminated, or until a request is made
to and approved by the city.
   (C)   The city shall have the right to inspect the development and/or
building site in order to determine compliance with the approved tree
preservation plan.
   (D)   The city shall determine whether compliance with the tree preservation
plan has been met.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-8) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 151.165 REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   No final plat shall be approved by the City Council until improvements
of the land and construction of streets, sidewalks and trails, together with
all other necessary facilities in the plat have been designed and
satisfactorily arranged in accordance with regulations outlined for land
improvement and construction and conditions of subdivision approval. The
developer shall be required to provide the improvements listed in this chapter
installed in accordance with the engineering policy, standards and
specifications, as may be amended. All improvements shall be subject to
inspection and approval by, and accomplished in the sequence as is determined
by the city, via the City Engineer.
   (B)   In addition to construction on land, streets and trails, the
developer, as part of the final plat, shall install and pay for light poles,
fixtures and street name signs as approved by the city and the utility company
serving the location. The installations shall be completed before the street is
surfaced.
(Prior Code, § 12-10-1) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.180 VIOLATIONS.
   The violation of any provision of this chapter or the violation of the
conditions or provisions of any permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be
a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, the violator shall be subject to
fine or imprisonment or both, as set forth in the state statutes plus, in
either case, the cost of prosecution.
   (A)   Sale of lots from unrecorded plats. It shall be misdemeanor to sell,
trade or otherwise convey any lot or parcel of land as a part of, or in
conformity with any plan, plat or replat of any subdivision or area located
within the jurisdiction of this chapter, unless the plan, plat or replat shall
have first been recorded in the office of the Recorder of the county.
   (B)   Receiving or recording unapproved plats. It shall be unlawful for a
private individual to receive or record in any public office any plans, plats
of land laid out in building lots and streets, alleys or other portions of the
same intended to be dedicated to public or private use, or for the use of
purchasers or owners of lots fronting on or adjacent thereto, and located
within the jurisdiction of this chapter, unless the same shall bear thereon, by
endorsement or otherwise, the approval of the City Council.
   (C)   Misrepresentations. It shall be a misdemeanor for any person owning an
addition or subdivision of land within the city to represent that any
improvement upon any of the streets, alleys or avenues of the addition or
subdivision or any sewer in the addition or subdivision has been constructed
according to the plans and specifications approved by the City Council, or has
been supervised or inspected by the city, when the improvements have not been
so constructed, supervised or inspected.
(Prior Code, § 12-11-1) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.181 INJUNCTION.
   In the event of a violation or the threatened violation of any provision of
this chapter, or any provision or condition of an approval issued pursuant to
this chapter, the city, in addition to other remedies, may institute
appropriate actions or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct or abate the
violation or threatened violation.
(Prior Code, § 12-11-3) (Ord. 259, passed 5-4-2006)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
Title and Application
   
152.001   Title and application
   
152.002   Conformity with this chapter
   
152.003   Building compliance
   
152.004   Monuments
   
152.005   Uses not provided for within zoning districts
   
152.006   Separability
   
152.007   Authority
   
152.008   Repeal
Rules and Definitions
   
152.020   Rules
   
152.021   Definitions
Administration; General
   
152.035   Development application procedures
   
152.036   Decisional process
   
152.037   Application procedure
   
152.038   Expiration of zoning approvals
   
152.039   Performance agreement
   
152.040   Appeals from administrative action
   
152.041   Cost recovery
   
152.042   Certification of taxes paid
   
152.043   Enforcement
Administration; Amendments
   
152.055   Amendments, initiation
   
152.056   Procedure
   
152.057   Criteria
   
152.058   Effectuation
Administration; Conditional Use Permits
   
152.070   Purpose
   
152.071   Procedure
   
152.072   Criteria
   
152.073   General performance standards
   
152.074   Revocation
Administration; Interim Use Permits
   
152.085   Purpose and intent
   
152.086   Procedure
   
152.087   Criteria
   
152.088   General performance standards
   
152.089   Termination
Administration; Variances
   
152.100   Purpose
   
152.101   Procedures
   
152.102   Board of Adjustment and Appeals
   
152.103   Criteria
Administration; Administrative Permits and Approvals
   
152.115   Purpose
   
152.116   Administrative permits
   
152.117   Non-permit approvals
   
152.118   Site improvement performance agreement and financial guarantee
Administration; Site and Building Plan Review
   
152.130   Purpose
   
152.131   Exceptions to review
   
152.132   Sketch plan
   
152.133   Procedure
   
152.134   Criteria
   
152.135   Information requirement
   
152.136   Plan modifications
   
152.137   Building Codes
   
152.138   Plan agreements
Planned Unit Development Procedures
   
152.150   Purpose
   
152.151   PUD types
   
152.152   General requirements and standards for a PUD
   
152.153   Procedure for processing a planned unit development
Nonconforming Buildings, Structures and Uses
   
152.165   Purpose
   
152.166   General provisions
   
152.167   Nonconforming uses
   
152.168   Nonconforming buildings and structures
   
152.169   Nonconforming lots
General Performance Standards
   
152.180   Purpose
   
152.181   Dwelling unit restriction
   
152.182   Platted and unplatted property
   
152.183   Erosion and drainage
   
152.184   Wetlands
   
152.185   Public rights-of-way
   
152.186   Traffic sight visibility triangle
   
152.187   Exterior lighting
   
152.188   Smoke
   
152.189   Dust and other particulate matter
   
152.190   Air pollution
   
152.191   Noise
   
152.192   Bulk storage (liquid)
   
152.193   Waste, refuse and recyclable material
   
152.194   Outdoor storage
General Yard, Lot Area and Building Regulations
   
152.205   Purpose
   
152.206   High water elevation
   
152.207   Building height
   
152.208   Building type and construction
   
152.209   Yards
   
152.210   Minimum floor area per dwelling unit
   
152.211   Efficiency apartments
   
152.212   Minimum floor area, commercial and industrial structures
   
152.213   Single-family dwellings
   
152.214   Building relocation
   
152.215   Temporary structures
   
152.216   Model homes
Accessory Buildings, Structures and Uses
   
152.230   Purpose
   
152.231   Time of construction
   
152.232   Application
   
152.233   Building permit required
   
152.234   Exterior building standards
   
152.235   Area limitations
   
152.236   Number of structures
   
152.237   Setbacks
   
152.238   Height
   
152.239   Conditional use permits
   
152.240   Animal enclosures
   
152.241   Compost structures and firewood piles
Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements
   
152.255   Purpose
   
152.256   Application
   
152.257   General provisions
   
152.258   Parking stall, aisle and driveway design; design standards
   
152.259   Number of parking spaces required
   
152.260   Exemptions
   
152.261   Parking deferment
   
152.262   Joint facilities
   
152.263   Off-site parking
   
152.264   Off-street loading
Fencing; Screening; Landscaping
   
152.275   Purpose
   
152.276   Fences
   
152.277   General landscaping and maintenance
   
152.278   Required landscaping
   
152.279   Required landscape screening
   
152.280   Tree preservation
   
152.281   Screening of mechanical equipment
Home Occupations
   
152.295   Purpose
   
152.296   Application
   
152.297   Procedures and permits
   
152.298   General provisions
   
152.299   Nonconforming use
   
152.300   Inspection
Animals
   
152.315   Purpose
   
152.316   Special requirements
   
152.317   [Reserved]
   
152.318   Commercial, public and quasi-public animal shelters or kennels
   
152.319   Animals other than farm or domestic
Antennas
   
152.330   Purpose and intent
   
152.331   General provisions
   
152.332   Certification, inspection and maintenance
   
152.333   Tower design
   
152.334   Co-location requirement
   
152.335   Accessory antennas
   
152.336   Personal wireless service antennas
   
152.337   Commercial and public radio and television transmitting antennas and
public utility microwave antennas
Signs
   
152.350   Purpose
   
152.351   Existing signs and nonconforming signs
   
152.352   General provisions
   
152.353   Permitted and prohibited signs
   
152.354   General district regulations
   
152.355   Special district regulations
   
152.356   Inspection
   
152.357   Permit, application, license, variance and City Council approval
   
152.358   Enforcement
   
152.359   Violation a misdemeanor
Daycare Facilities
   
152.370   Purpose
   
152.371   Procedure
   
152.372   Special requirements
Essential Services
   
152.385   Purpose
   
152.386   Administrative permit required
   
152.387   Conditional use permit required
   
152.388   Performance standards
   
152.389   Exceptions
Land Reclamation
   
152.400   Procedure
   
152.401   Special requirements
   
152.402   Performance standards
   
152.403   Exceptions
Sexually Oriented Uses
   
152.415   Purpose
   
152.416   Compliance required
Motor Vehicle Fuel Facilities
   
152.430   Purpose
   
152.431   Motor vehicle fuel sales
   
152.432   Truck stops
General Zoning District Provisions
   
152.445   Establishment of districts
   
152.446   Zoning district boundaries
   
152.447   Zoning map
   
152.448   Annexations
UR, Urban Reserve District
   
152.460   Purpose
   
152.461   Permitted uses
   
152.462   Permitted accessory uses
   
152.463   Conditional uses
   
152.464   Interim uses
   
152.465   Uses by administrative permit
   
152.466   Lot requirements and setbacks
   
152.467   Building requirements
R-E, Single-Family Estate Residential District
   
152.480   Purpose
   
152.481   Permitted uses
   
152.482   Permitted accessory uses
   
152.483   Conditional uses
   
152.484   Interim uses
   
152.485   Uses by administrative permit
   
152.486   Lot requirements and setbacks
   
152.487   Building requirements
R-1, Single-Family Residential District
   
152.500   Purpose
   
152.501   Permitted uses
   
152.502   Permitted accessory uses
   
152.503   Conditional uses
   
152.504   Interim uses
   
152.505   Uses by administrative permit
   
152.506   Lot requirements and setbacks
   
152.507   Building requirements
R-2, Single-Family Residential District
   
152.520   Purpose
   
152.521   Permitted uses
   
152.522   Permitted accessory uses
   
152.523   Conditional uses
   
152.524   Interim uses
   
152.525   Uses by administrative permit
   
152.526   Lot requirements and setbacks
   
152.527   Building requirements
R-3, Medium Density Residential District
   
152.540   Purpose
   
152.541   Permitted uses
   
152.542   Permitted accessory uses
   
152.543   Conditional uses
   
152.544   Interim uses
   
152.545   Uses by administrative permit
   
152.546   Lot requirements and setbacks
   
152.547   Building requirements
   
152.548   Common areas
   
152.549   Design and construction standards
R-4, High Density Residential District
   
152.560   Purpose
   
152.561   Permitted uses
   
152.562   Permitted accessory uses
   
152.563   Conditional uses
   
152.564   Interim uses
   
152.565   Uses by administrative permit
   
152.566   Development density
   
152.567   Lot requirements and setbacks
   
152.568   Building requirements
   
152.569   Common areas
   
152.570   Design and construction standards
R-M, Single-Family Manufactured Home Park District
   
152.585   Purpose
   
152.586   Permitted uses
   
152.587   Permitted accessory uses
   
152.588   Conditional uses
   
152.589   Interim uses
   
152.590   Uses by administrative permit
R-B, Residential Business District
   
152.605   Purpose
   
152.606   Permitted uses
   
152.607   Permitted accessory uses
   
152.608   Conditional uses
   
152.609   Interim uses
   
152.610   Uses by administrative permit
   
152.611   Lot requirements and setbacks
   
152.612   Building requirements
B-1, Central Business District
   
152.625   Purpose
   
152.626   Permitted uses
   
152.627   Permitted accessory uses
   
152.628   Conditional uses
   
152.629   Interim uses
   
152.630   Uses by administrative permit
   
152.631   Lot requirements and setbacks
   
152.632   Building requirements
B-2, Highway Business District
   
152.645   Purpose
   
152.646   Permitted uses
   
152.647   Permitted accessory uses
   
152.648   Conditional uses
   
152.649   Interim uses
   
152.650   Uses by administrative permit
   
152.651   Lot requirements and setbacks
   
152.652   Building requirements
   
152.653   Impervious surface coverage
I-1, Limited Industrial District
   
152.665   Purpose
   
152.666   Permitted uses
   
152.667   Permitted accessory uses
   
152.668   Conditional uses
   
152.669   Interim uses
   
152.670   Uses by administrative permit
   
152.671   Lot requirements and setbacks
   
152.672   Building requirements
I-2, General Industrial District
   
152.685   Purpose
   
152.686   Permitted uses
   
152.687   Permitted accessory uses
   
152.688   Conditional uses
   
152.689   Interim uses
   
152.690   Uses by administrative permit
   
152.691   Lot requirements and setbacks
   
152.692   Building requirements
PUD, Planned Unit Development District
   
152.705   Purpose
   
152.706   Permitted uses
   
152.707   Special procedures
   
152.708   Southeast Campus Planned Unit Development (PUD) District
HD, Historic Downtown Overlay District
   
152.720   Purpose
   
152.721   Application
   
152.722   Consistency with other plans and codes
   
152.723   Permitted uses
   
152.724   Land use elements
   
152.725   Architectural elements
   
152.726   Streetscape/site planning elements
   
152.727   Sign elements
   
152.728   Filing and review process
   
152.729   Variances
   
152.730   Existing building treatment
Floodplain Management
   
152.745   Statutory authorization; findings of fact and purpose
   
152.746   General provisions
   
152.747   Establishment of zoning districts
   
152.748   Compliance
   
152.749   Floodway District (FW)
   
152.750   Flood Fringe District (FF)
   
152.751   General Floodplain District
   
152.752   Subdivisions
   
152.753   Public utilities, railroads, roads and bridges
   
152.754   Manufactured homes and manufactured home parks and placement of
recreational vehicles
   
152.755   Administration
   
152.756   Nonconforming uses
   
152.757   Violations
   
152.758   Amendments
Wetland Systems District
   
152.770   Purpose
   
152.771   District application
   
152.772   Permitted uses
   
152.773   Prohibited uses
   
152.774   Development regulations
S, Shoreland District
   
152.785   Designation of districts
   
152.786   District application
   
152.787   Boundaries
   
152.788   Minimum lot and setback requirements
   
152.789   Development regulations
   
152.790   Landscape alterations
   
152.791   Planned unit and planned cluster development
   
152.792   Variances
   
152.793   Notifying and certifying certain actions in the CR, Cannon
Recreational and CS, Cannon Scenic River Land Use Districts
   
152.794   Notification procedures
   
152.795   Effect of permit
BP, Bluff Protection Overlay District
   
152.810   Purpose
   
152.811   District application
   
152.812   Boundaries
   
152.813   Development regulations
   
152.814   General regulations
TITLE AND APPLICATION
§ 152.001 TITLE AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the
Cannon Falls Zoning Chapter, except as referred to herein, where it shall be
known as "this chapter."
   (B)   Intent and purpose. The intent of this chapter is to protect the
public health, safety and general welfare of the community and its people
through the establishment of minimum regulations in regard to the location,
erection, construction, alteration and use of structures and land. These
regulations are established to protect the use areas; to promote orderly
development and redevelopment; to provide adequate light, air and convenience
of access to property; to prevent congestion in the public right-of- way; to
prevent overcrowding of land and undue concentration of structures by
regulating land, building, yards and density of population; to provide for
compatibility of different land uses; to provide for administration of this
chapter; to provide for amendments; to prescribe penalties for violation of the
regulations; and to define powers and duties of the city staff, the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals, the Planning Commission and the City Council in
relation to this chapter.
   (C)   Relation to the city's Comprehensive Plan. The city's adopted
Comprehensive Plan shall serve as the basis upon which land use and development
shall be regulated.
   (D)   Standard; requirement. Where the conditions imposed by any provision
of this chapter are either more or less restrictive than comparable conditions
imposed by other ordinance, rule or regulation of the city, the ordinance, rule
or regulation which imposes the more restrictive condition, standard or
requirement shall prevail.
   (E)   Application. The provisions of this chapter shall be the minimum
requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.002 CONFORMITY WITH THIS CHAPTER.
   No structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or altered
and no structure or land shall be used for any purpose nor in any manner which
is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.003 BUILDING COMPLIANCE.
   Except as herein provided, no building, structure or premises shall
hereafter be used or occupied and no building permit shall be granted that does
not conform to the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.004 MONUMENTS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, all international, federal, state, county
and other official monuments, bench marks, triangulation points and stations
shall be preserved in their precise locations; and it shall be the
responsibility of the applicant to ensure that these markers are maintained in
good condition during and following construction and development. All section,
one-quarter section and one-sixteenth section corners shall be duly described
and tied.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.005 USES NOT PROVIDED FOR WITHIN ZONING DISTRICTS.
   Whenever in any zoning district a use is neither specifically permitted nor
denied, the use shall be considered prohibited. In these cases the City Council
or the Planning Commission, on their own initiative or upon request, may
conduct a study to determine if the use is acceptable and if so what zoning
district would be most appropriate and the determination as to conditions and
standards relating to development of the use. The City Council, Planning
Commission or property owner, upon receipt of the study shall, if appropriate,
initiate an amendment to this chapter to provide for the particular use under
consideration or shall find that the use is not compatible for development
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.006 SEPARABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city that the several
provisions of this chapter are separable in accordance with the following.
   (A)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
this chapter to be invalid, the judgment shall not affect any other provisions
of this chapter not specifically included in the judgment.
   (B)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this chapter to a particular property, building
or other structure, the judgment shall not affect the application of the
provision to any other property, building or structure not specifically
included in the judgment.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-6) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.007 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by the Municipal
Planning Act, M.S. §§ 462.351 to 462.363, as they may be amended from time to
time.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-7) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.008 REPEAL.
   The previous city zoning ordinance as amended, is hereby repealed and
replaced by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-8) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
§ 152.020 RULES.
   The language set forth in the text of this chapter shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction.
   (A)   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular.
   (B)   The present tense includes the past and the future tenses, and the
future the present.
   (C)   The word SHALL is mandatory while the word MAY is permissive.
   (D)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   (E)   All measured distances expressed in feet shall be to the nearest tenth
of a foot.
   (F)   For terminology not defined in this chapter, the city code, the State
Building Code or the Webster's Honor Bridged Dictionary Second Edition shall be
used to define the terms.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.021 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTTING. Making contact with or separated only by public thoroughfare,
railroad or public utility right-of-way.
   ACCESS. A way or means of approach to provide physical entrance to a
property.
   ACCESSORY AND/OR SECONDARY USE. Those antennas including radio and
television receiving antennas, satellite dishes, TVROs (television receive
only) two meters or less in diameter, short-wave radio dispatching antennas or
those necessary for the operation of electronic equipment such as radio
receivers, ham radio transmitters and television receivers that are customary
and incidental to allowed principal uses within the various zoning districts of
the city.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building which is located on the same lot
on which the principal building is situated and which is reasonably necessary
and incidental to the conduct of the principal building or use.
   ADDITION. A physical enlargement of an existing structure.
   ADDRESS SIGN. A sign communicating only a street address.
   ADVERTISING SIGN. A sign used to advertise products, goods or services not
exclusively related to the premise on which the sign is located.
   AESTHETIC. The perception of artistic elements or elements in the natural or
human-made environment which are pleasing to the eye.
   AGRICULTURE USES. Those uses commonly associated with the growing of produce
on farms. These include: field crop farming; pasture for hay, fruit growing;
tree, plant, shrub or flower nursery without building; truck gardening;
roadside stand for sale of in season products grown on premises; and livestock
raising and feeding, but not including fur farms, commercial animal feedlots,
retail nurseries and garden centers and kennels.
   AISLE. The traveled way by which cars enter and depart parking spaces.
   ALLEY. A public or private right-of-way which affords a secondary means of
access to abutting property.
   ALTERATION. Any major alteration to a sign excluding routine maintenance,
painting or change of copy.
   AMUSEMENT CENTER. A business at one location devoted primarily to the
operation of amusement machines and open for public use and participation at a
location where the primary use is five or more amusement machines and is open
for public use and participation.
   ANIMAL FEEDLOTS. A lot or building or combination of lots and buildings
intended for the confined feeding, breeding, raising or holding of animals and
specifically designed as a confinement area in which manure may accumulate, or
where the concentration of animals is such that a vegetative cover cannot be
maintained within the enclosure. Open lots used for feeding and rearing of
poultry (poultry ranges) and barns, dairy farms, swine facilities, beef lots
and barns, horse stalls, mink ranches and zoos shall be considered to be ANIMAL
FEEDLOTS. Pastures shall not be considered ANIMAL FEEDLOTS.
   ANIMAL KENNEL. Any place where three or more domestic animals of one type,
over six months of age, are commercially kept, sold, boarded, bred or
exhibited, except hospitals, clinics and other premises operated by a licensed
veterinarian exclusively for the care and treatment of animals.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. A fully enclosed building where domestic animals are cared
for on a temporary basis. Boarding, grooming, kenneling or similar activities
of animals other than those surrendered or impounded shall not be permitted.
   ANIMALS, FARM. Cattle, hogs, bees, sheep, goats, chickens, turkeys, horses
and other animals commonly accepted as FARM ANIMALS in the state.
   ANIMALS, HOUSE PETS. Animals such as dogs, cats, birds (not including
pigeons, chickens, geese, turkeys or other domestic fowl), gerbils, hamsters,
rabbits (including those normally sheltered outside of the principal structure)
and tropical fish, that can be contained within a principal structure
throughout the entire year, provided that the containment can be accomplished
without special modification to the structure that would require a building
permit, excluding wild or domesticated wild animals.
   APPLICANT. The owner, his or her agent or person having legal control,
ownership and/or interest in land for which the provisions of this chapter are
being considered or reviewed.
   AQUIFER RECHARGE AREAS. All land surface areas, which by nature of its
surface and/or subsurface soil characteristics, are determined to contribute to
the replenishment of subsurface water supplies.
   ARCHITECTURAL CONTROL. Public regulation of the design of private buildings
to develop, preserve or enhance the attractiveness or character of a particular
area or individual buildings.
   AREA IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A freestanding sign identifying the name of a
single- or two-family residential subdivision consisting of 20 or more lots; a
residential planned unit development; a multiple residential complex consisting
of three or more independent operations; a single business consisting of three
or more separate structures; a manufactured home park; or any integrated
combination of the above. The sign shall only identify an area, complex or
development and shall not, unless approved by the City Council, contain the
name of individual owners or tenants. The sign may not contain advertising.
   ASYMMETRIC BALANCE. A dissimilar yet harmonious composition of numerous
similar or complementary forms. The composition shall reflect the local
context, site conditions or building function.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR (MAJOR). General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning
engines, motor vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body, frame
or fender straightening or repair; overall painting or paint job; vehicle steam
cleaning.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR (MINOR). Minor repairs, incidental body and fender work,
painting and upholstering, replacement of parts and motor services to passenger
automobiles and trucks not exceeding 12,000 pounds gross weight, but not
including any operation specified under the definition of AUTOMOBILE REPAIR
(MAJOR).
   AUTOMOBILE SALES. The use of any building or land area for the display and
sale of new or used automobiles, trucks, vans, trailers or recreational
vehicles including any major or minor automobile repair or service uses
conducted as an accessory use.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. Any building, land area or other premises, or
portion thereof, used or intended to be used for the retail dispensing or sales
of vehicular fuels; and including as an accessory use the sale and installation
of lubricants, tires, batteries and similar accessories.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING, REDUCTION YARD OR JUNKYARD. Any place where three or
more vehicles not in running condition and/or not licensed, or parts thereof,
are stored in the open and are not being restored to operation or any land,
building or structure used for wrecking or storing of motor vehicles or parts
thereof, and including any commercial salvaging and scavenging of any other
goods, articles or merchandise.
   AWNING. A hood or cover projecting from the wall of a building, and which
can be retracted, folded or collapsed against the face of a supporting
building.
   AXIAL SYMMETRY. A formal organization which balances equal elements and
features around a vertical plane common in classified revival and colonial
style buildings.
   BANNER. An attention getting device which resembles a flag and is of a
paper, cloth or plastic-like consistency.
   BASE OF FACADE. The most public part of the building, featuring a larger
glass area and often emphasizing its horizontal dimension.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building between floor and ceiling, which is
partly below and partly above grade, but so located that the vertical distance
from grade to the floor below is more than the vertical distance from grade to
ceiling. See definition of STORY.
   BED AND BREAKFAST HOME. An owner occupied residential structure where one to
five rooms are rented on a nightly basis to guests and breakfast is included in
the price of the room. Meals may be provided to guests only.
   BED AND BREAKFAST INN. An owner/manager occupied building where up to 15
rooms are rented on a nightly basis to guests and breakfast is included in the
price of the room. Meals may be provided to guests only.
   BENCH SIGN. A sign affixed to a bench such as at a bus stop.
   BERM. A landscaped mound of earth used to separate incompatible uses, screen
off-site views of developments, mitigate noise impacts and create aesthetic
interest.
   BILLBOARD. An advertising sign.
   BLUFF IMPACT ZONE. All land located between the toe and the top of the bluff
and the land located within 30 feet measured horizontally beyond the highest
point of the top of the bluff and 30 feet measured horizontally beyond the
lowest point of the toe of the bluff.
   BLUFF, TOE OF THE. The lower point of a 50-foot segment with an average
slope exceeding 18%.
   BLUFF, TOP OF THE. The higher point of a 50-foot segment with an average
slope exceeding 18%.
   BLUFF. A natural topographic feature such as a hill, cliff or embankment
having the following characteristics:
      (1)   The slope rises at least 25 feet above the toe of the bluff;
      (2)   The grade of the slope from the toe of the bluff to a point 25 feet
or more above the toe of the bluff averages 30% or greater; and
      (3)   An area with an average slope of less than 18% over a distance of
50 feet or more shall not be considered part of the bluff.
   BLUFFLINE. A line along the top of a slope connecting the points at which
the slope becomes less than 13%.
   BOARDING (HOUSE) HOME, FOSTER CHILDREN. A family dwelling where children out
of their own homes are cared for.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel where, for compensation and by
prearrangement for definite periods, meals or lodging and meals are provided to
three or more persons, not of the principal family therein, pursuant to
previous arrangements and not to anyone who may apply, but not including a
building providing these services for more than ten persons.
   BOARDING ROOM. A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without
cooking facilities and with or without an individual bathroom. In a suite of
rooms without cooking facilities, each room which provides sleeping
accommodation shall be counted as one BOARDING ROOM.
   BOATHOUSE. A structure designed and used primarily for the storage of boats
or boating equipment.
   BODY PIERCING. Penetrating or making a hole in or through the human body to
place jewelry or objects of metal, plastic, wood, bone or other foreign
material on any area for cosmetic purposes.
   BOULEVARD. The portion of the street right-of-way between the curb and the
property line.
   BUFFER. The use of land, topography, difference in elevation, space, fences
or landscape plantings to screen or partially screen a use or property from
another use or property or to shield or mitigate noise, lights or other
impacts.
   BUFFER YARD. A strip of land utilized to screen or partially screen a use or
property from another use or property or to shield or mitigate noise, lights or
other impacts.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have
been provided.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
   BUILDING FACADE. The portion of any exterior elevation of a building
extending from grade to the top of the parapet wall or eaves and the entire
width of the building elevation.
   BUILDING FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of the building or portion thereof devoted to a particular use.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the established grade
level at the building and the highest point of a flat roof or the average
height of the highest gable of a pitched or hip roof.
   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to a lot line or the ordinary high-water
level at the required setback beyond which a structure may not extend.
   BUS SHELTER. A small, roofed structure having from one to three walls,
located near a street and designed primarily for the protection and convenience
of bus passengers.
   BUSINESS. Any establishment, occupation, employment or enterprise where
merchandise is manufactured, exhibited or sold, or where services are offered
for compensation.
   BUSINESS SIGN. Sign identifying a business or group of businesses, either
retail or wholesale, or any sign identifying a profession or used in the
identification or promotion of any principal commodity or service, including
entertainment, offered or sold upon the premises where the sign is located.
   CAMPAIGN SIGN. A temporary sign promoting the candidacy of a person running
for governmental office, or promoting an issue to be voted on at a governmental
election.
   CAMPGROUND. An area accessible by foot or vehicle and containing campsites
or camping spurs for tent and trailer camping.
   CANOPY. An accessory roof-like structure, which is either attached to or
detached from an allowable primary building; which is open on all sides, other
than where attached; and, which is located over and designed to provide cover
for entrances, exits, walkways and approved off-street vehicle service areas.
   CANOPY SIGN. Message or identification affixed to a canopy or marquee that
provides a shelter or cover over this approach to any building entrance.
   CARPORT. An automobile shelter having one or more sides open continuously.
   CELLAR. The portion of a building between floor and ceiling which is wholly
or partly below grade and so located that the vertical distance from grade to
the floor below is equal to or greater than the vertical distance from grade to
ceiling.
   CEMETERY. A parcel or tract of land used or intended to be used for the
burial of the dead including columbariums, crematories, mausoleums and
mortuaries when operated within the boundaries of the cemetery.
   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial depression of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct water either continuously or
periodically.
   CITY ATTORNEY. The person designated by the City Council to be the City
Attorney for the City of Cannon Falls.
   CITY BUILDING OFFICIAL. The person designated by the City Council to be the
City Building Official for the City of Cannon Falls.
   CITY COUNCIL. The governing body for the City of Cannon Falls.
   CITY ENGINEER. The person designated by the City Council to be the City
Engineer for the City of Cannon Falls.
   CLEAR-CUTTING. The removal of an entire stand of trees.
   CLUB or LODGE. A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members
paying annual dues, with the use of premises being restricted to members and
their guests for receptions, social recreation and other gatherings.
   COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT. Any equipment, including trailers, used for the
alteration, demolition, construction, maintenance or excavation of a building,
structure or property.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION. An establishment that provides an amusing or
entertaining activity to the general public. COMMERCIAL RECREATION
ESTABLISHMENTS include, but are not limited to, health clubs, skating rinks,
water slides and other amusement rides, firearm ranges, miniature golf courses,
arcades, bowling alleys, race tracks, billiard halls and similar uses.
COMMERCIAL RECREATIONAL USES may be further distinguished as indoor or outdoor
uses.
   COMMERCIAL USE. The principal use of land or buildings for the sale, lease,
rental or trade of products, goods and services.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. A vehicle used for commercial purposes either greater
than eight feet in height or greater than 22 feet in length, including, but not
limited to, boom trucks, cargo trucks, dump trucks, farm implements, fire
trucks, ambulances, limousines, hearses, semi-tractor trailers, tank trucks and
tow trucks.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. Any open space including parks, nature areas,
playgrounds, trails and recreational buildings and structures, which is an
integral part of a development and is not owned on an individual basis by each
owner of the dwelling unit.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A compilation of policy statements, goals, standards and
maps for guiding the physical, social and economic development, both private
and public, of the municipality and its environs, including air space and
subsurface areas necessary for mined underground space development as pursuant
to state statutes, and may include, but is not limited to, the following:
statements of policies; goals; standards; a land use plan; a community
facilities plan; park/trail/recreation plan; a transportation plan; stormwater
management plan; sanitary sewer and water system plan; and recommendations for
plan execution.
   CONCRETE MASONRY UNIT (CMU). A masonry unit made of portland cement, water
and mineral aggregates, formed into a rectangular prism. These units are
offered in various face designs including, but not limited to, split or rock
face block, split scored, fluted, ribbed and ground face. CMUs are manufactured
under controlled conditions and are typically available in a variety of colors.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use which, because of special problems of control the use
presents, requires reasonable, but special, unusual and extraordinary
limitations peculiar to the use for the protection of the public welfare and
the integrity of the City Comprehensive Plan.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued by the City Council in accordance
with procedures specified in this chapter, as a flexibility device to enable
the City Council to assign dimensions to a proposed use or conditions
surrounding it after consideration of adjacent uses and their functions and the
special problems which the proposed use presents.
   CONDOMINIUM. A multiple-family dwelling or development containing
individually owned dwelling units and jointly owned and shared areas and
facilities, which dwelling or development is subject to the provisions of the
State Condominium Law, M.S. §§ 515.01 through 515.29, as they may be amended
from time to time.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN. A sign at a construction site identifying the project or
the name of the architect, engineer, contractor, financier or other involved
parties.
   COOPERATIVE (HOUSING). A multiple-family dwelling owned and maintained by
the residents and subject to the provisions of M.S. Chapter 515B, as they may
be amended from time to time. The entire structure and real property is under
common ownership as contrasted to a condominium dwelling where individual units
are under separate individual occupant ownership.
   COURT. An unoccupied open space other than a yard which is bounded on two or
more sides by the walls of buildings.
   COURTYARD ORGANIZATION. Grouping of buildings to help define usable outdoor
space.
   CUT-OFF TYPE LUMINAIRE. A luminaire with elements such as shields,
reflectors or refractor panels which direct and cut-off the light at a cut-off
angle less than 90 degrees.
   CUTOFF. The point at which all light rays emitted by a lamp, light source or
luminaire are completely eliminated at a specific angle above the ground.
   CUTOFF ANGLE. The angle formed by a line drawn from the direction of light
rays at the light source and a line perpendicular to the ground from the light
source above which no light is emitted. See Figure 1 below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ca8d3e3c632d9f3ebbd97ba13905b1b6ba248b11/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2149.jpg]
 
   Figure 1. Cut Off Angle
   CUTOFF TYPE LUMINAIRE. A luminaire with elements such as shields, reflectors
or refractor panels which direct and cut off the light at a cutoff angle that
is less than 90 degrees.
   DAYCARE FACILITY. Any state licensed facility, public or private, which for
gain or otherwise regularly provides one or more persons with care, training,
supervision, habilitation, rehabilitation or developmental guidance on a
regular basis, for periods of less than 24 hours per day, in a place other than
the person's own home. DAYCARE FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
family daycare homes, group family daycare homes, daycare centers, day
nurseries, nursery schools, daytime activity center, day treatment programs and
other "nonresidential programs" as defined by M.S. § 245A.02, Subdivision 10,
as it may be amended from time to time.
   DECK. Horizontal, unenclosed platform with or without attached railings,
seats, trellises or other features, attached or functionally related to a
principal use or site and at any point extending above grade.
   DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per gross acre of land.
   DENSITY, NET. The number of dwelling units per buildable acres of land.
   DEPOSIT. Any rock, soil, gravel, sand or other material deposited naturally
or by humans into a waterbody, watercourse, floodplains or wetlands.
   DEVELOPMENT. The division of a parcel of land into two or more parcels; the
construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation or
enlargement of any structure; any land disturbance and any use or extension of
the use of land.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A sign erected with the address and/or name of a business,
institution, church or other use or activity plus directional arrows or
information on location.
   DIRECTORY SIGN. An exterior informational wall sign identifying the names of
businesses served by a common public entrance in a shopping center or office
building.
   DISTRIBUTION LINES. All those wires, poles and appurtenant equipment used to
carry electricity, generally rated below 115 kV, located between a customer and
a transmission line.
   DISTRICT. A section or sections of the city for which the regulations and
provisions governing the use of buildings and lands are uniform for each class
of use permitted therein.
   DIVERSION. A channel that intercepts surface water runoff and that changes
the accustomed course of all or part of a stream.
   DOWNTOWN. The area of the city included in the Downtown Design Overlay
District.
   DRAINING. The removal of surface water or ground water from land.
   DREDGING. To enlarge or clean out a waterbody, watercourse or wetland.
   DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITY. An establishment (principal or accessory use) at
which patrons may purchase products or receive service without having to leave
their motor vehicle (and enter a building).
   DUPLEX. A two-family dwelling with one unit above the other.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, designated exclusively for
residential occupancy, including one-family, two-family and multiple-family
dwellings, but not including hotels, motels, boardinghouses, bed and breakfast,
mobile homes or trailers.
   DWELLING, EFFICIENCY APARTMENT. A dwelling unit consisting of one principal
room exclusive of bathroom, hallway, closets or dining alcove.
   DWELLING, ELDERLY (SENIOR CITIZEN) HOUSING. A public agency owned or
controlled multiple dwelling building with open occupancy limited to persons
over 55 years of age.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY (APARTMENT). A building designed with three or
more dwelling units exclusively for occupancy by three or more families living
independently of each other, but sharing hallways and main entrances and exits.
   DWELLING, NURSING HOME. A state licensed facility or that part of a facility
which provides nursing care pursuant to M.S. Chapter 144A.01, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   DWELLING, QUADRAMINIUM. A single structure which contains four separately
owned dwelling units, all of which have individually separate entrances from
the exterior of the structure.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A dwelling unit designed exclusively for and
occupied exclusively by one family.
   DWELLING SITE. A designated location for residential use by one or more
persons using temporary or movable shelter, including camping and recreational
vehicle sites.
   DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE. A structure housing three or more dwelling units
contiguous to each other only by the sharing of one or more common walls with
each unit having a separate entrance/exit, the structure to be of the townhouse
or row house type as contrasted to multiple-family dwelling apartment
structures.
   DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE, DETACHED. A structure having the characteristics of a
multiple unit townhouse structure that has been separated into single-dwelling
units at the common side wall, typically with structure dimensions that have a
narrow front and deep side walls and are typically without windows or features
on at least one of the side walls.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A structure designed exclusively for occupancy by two
families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT. A residential building or portion thereof intended for
occupancy by one or more persons with facilities for living, sleeping, cooking
and eating, but not including hotels, motels, nursing homes, tents, seasonal
cabins, boarding or rooming houses, motor homes or travel trailers.
   EARTH BERM (HOUSE CONSTRUCTION). An earth covering on the above grade
portions of the building walls.
   EARTH SHELTERED BUILDING. A building so constructed that 50% or more of the
completed structure is covered with earth. Earth covering is measured from the
lowest level of the livable space in residential units and of usable space in
nonresidential buildings. An EARTH SHELTERED BUILDING is a complete structure
that does not serve just as a foundation or substructure for above grade
construction. A partially covered building shall not be considered EARTH
SHELTERED.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner to and/or for use by the public or
other entity for the purpose of constructing and maintaining streets, trails,
sidewalks, drives and/or utilities, including, but not limited to, wetlands,
ponding areas, sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines, telephone lines,
storm sewer or storm drainageways and gas lines.
   EASEMENT, DRAINAGE. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of
land and for the purpose of constructing and maintaining streets, trails,
sidewalks, drives and/or utilities, including, but not limited to, wetlands,
ponding areas, sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines, telephone lines,
storm sewer or storm drainage ways and gas lines.
   ENGINEER. An electrical, mechanical, civil or other professional engineer
licensed by the state.
   EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location of
encroachment lines so that floodplain land on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows. This is determined
by considering the effect of encroachment on the hydraulic efficiency of the
floodplain along both sides of a stream for a significant reach.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes, for a fee, tip or other consideration.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by
private or public utilities or municipal departments of underground telephone,
gas, electrical, communication, waste or water transmission, distribution,
collection, supply or disposal systems, including water towers, wells, poles,
wires, radio receivers and transmitters, mains, drains, sewers, pipes,
conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals,
hydrants and other similar equipment, accessories and related structures in
connection therewith for the furnishing of adequate service by private or
public utilities or municipal departments. ESSENTIAL SERVICES shall not include
waste facilities or personal wireless service antennas or support structures.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   EXTRACTIVE USE. The use of the land for surface or subsurface removal of
sand, gravel, rock, industrial minerals other nonmetallic minerals and peat not
regulated under M.S. §§ 93.44 through 93.51, as they may be amended from time
to time, exceeding 50 square feet or an area of two feet in depth or greater.
   FACADE. The main exterior face of a building exposed to public view or that
wall viewed by persons not within the building.
   FAMILY. An individual or two or more persons each related to the other by
blood, marriage, adoption, domestic partnership or foster care or a group of
not more than three persons not so related maintaining a common household and
using common cooking/kitchen and bathroom facilities.
   FARM. A tract of land of more than ten acres in size usually with a house
and barn plus other buildings on which crops and often livestock are raised.
   FARM, HOBBY. A tract of land with a house and accessory buildings on which
crops and often livestock are raised but not as a principal source of income.
   FARMERS MARKET. An outdoor, public and recurring assembly of farmers/
ranchers/growers or their representatives selling the food of plants that they
produced (including but not limited to fruit, vegetables, meats, cheeses,
bakery products, jams/jellies, and flowers/plants/seedlings) directly to
consumers.
   FARMING. Process of operating a farm for the growing and harvesting of crops
which shall include those necessary accessory buildings, related to operating
the farm and the keeping of common domestic farm animals.
   FENCE. Any partition, structure, wall or gate erected as a dividing mark,
barrier or enclosure.
   FENCE, BOUNDARY LINE. All fences located within five feet of a property
line.
   FENCE, INTERIOR YARD. All fences located five feet from a property line.
   FENESTRATION. The design and placement of windows in a building.
   FILLING. The act of depositing any rock, soil, gravel, sand or other
material so as to fill a waterbody, watercourse or wetland.
   FLASHING LIGHT. A light source which is not constant in intensity or color
at all times while in use.
   FLASHING SIGN. An illuminated sign upon which the artificial light is not
kept constant in terms of intensity or color when the sign is illuminated.
   FLOOD. A temporary rise in a stream flow or stage which results in
inundation of the areas adjacent to the channel.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY. The average frequency, statistically determined, for which
it is expected that a specific flood stage or discharge may be equaled or
exceeded. By strict definition, the estimates are designated "exceedence
frequency," but in practice the term "frequency" is used. The frequency of a
particular stage of discharge is usually expressed as having a probability of
occurring once within a specific number of years.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway.
   FLOOD PROFILE. A graph or a longitudinal plot of water surface elevation of
a flood event along a reach of a stream or river.
   FLOODPLAIN. The areas adjoining a watercourse which have been or hereafter
may be covered by the regional flood.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of the watercourse and those portions of the adjoining
floodplains which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the regional
flood.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of
the building or portion thereof devoted to a particular use, including
accessory storage areas located within selling or working space such as
counters, racks or closets and any basement floor area devoted to retailing
activities, to the production of processing of goods or to business or
professional offices. However, the FLOOR AREA shall not include basement or
cellar floor area other than area devoted to retailing activities, the
production or processing of goods or to business or professional offices. The
FLOOR AREA of a residence shall not include the cellar area.
   FOOT CANDLE. A unit of illumination produced on a surface, all points of
which are one foot from a uniform point source of one candle.
   FORESTRY. The use and management, including logging, of a forest, woodland
or plantation and related research and educational activities including the
construction, alteration or maintenance of wood roads, skidways, landings and
fences.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. Self-supported sign not affixed to another structure.
   FRONTAGE. The boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or dedicated public
street or private drive.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE (RESIDENTIAL). An accessory building or accessory portion of
the principal building which is primarily intended for and used to store
passenger vehicles and trucks (not exceeding 12,000 pounds gross weight) owned
and operated by a resident upon the premises.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building or portion of a building, except any herein
defined as a private garage or as a repair garage, used for the storage of
motor vehicles or where any vehicles are kept for remuneration or hire.
   GARDEN SUPPLY STORE. A place of business where retail and wholesale products
and produce are sold to the retail customer. These centers import the majority
of the items sold. These items may include soils, wood chips, decorative rock,
brick, retaining wall block, plants, nursery products and stock, fertilizers,
potting soil, hardware, power equipment and machinery, hoses, rakes, shovels
and other garden and farm tools and utensils.
   GENERAL DEVELOPMENT (GD). Large, deep lakes or lakes of varying sizes and
depths with high levels and mixes of existing development. These lakes often
are extensively used for recreation and, except for the very large lakes, are
heavily developed around the shore. Second and third tiers of development are
fairly common. The larger examples in this class can accommodate additional
development and use.
   GLARE. The effect produced by brightness sufficient to cause annoyance,
discomfort or loss in visual performance and visibility.
   GRADE (ADJACENT GROUND ELEVATION). The lowest point of elevation of the
finished surface of the ground, paving or sidewalk within the area between the
building and the property line, or when the property line is more than five
feet from the building, between the building and a line five feet from the
building.
   GRADING. Changing the natural or existing topography of land.
   GREEN AREA. Land shown on a development plan, master plan or official map
for preservation, recreation, landscaping or park.
   GREENHOUSE. An enclosed building, permanent or portable, which is used for
the growing of small plants.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or profession engaged in by the occupant of
a residential dwelling unit, which is clearly incidental and secondary to the
residential use of the premises and does not change the character of the
premises.
   HOME OFFICE. A home occupation consisting of a room or group of rooms used
for conducting affairs of a recognized business, profession or service solely
by the occupant of the dwelling and which does not involve the on-site sale of
products or client/patron site visitations.
   HOSPITALITY BUSINESS. An establishment offering transient lodging
accommodations on a daily rate to the general public, leasable events, meeting
or conference facilities and exhibition halls or other uses of similar
character including hotels, motels, convention facilities and hospices.
   HOTEL. Any building or portion thereof occupied as the more or less
temporary abiding place of individuals and containing six or more guest rooms,
used, designated or intended to be used, let or hired out to be occupied, or
which are occupied by six or more individuals for compensation, whether the
compensation be paid directly or indirectly.
   HOUSE PET ENCLOSURE. Any accessory building or portion thereof, accessory
structure or area of any kind, including, without limitation, pens, runs,
kennels and pet houses, that is principally used or designed for use as a place
for keeping house pets. An electronic pet containment system is not considered
a HOUSE PET ENCLOSURE.
   HUMAN SCALE. Suggests designing with the pedestrian in mind rather than the
automobile. HUMAN SCALE is derived from a building's architectural details and
elements whose size people are familiar with.
   HYDRIC SOILS. Soils that are saturated, flooded or ponded long enough during
the growing season to develop anaerobic conditions in the upper part.
   HYDROPHYTIC VEGETATION. Macrophytic plant life growing in water, soil or on
a substrate that is at least periodically deficient in oxygen as a result of
excessive water content.
   IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign which identifies the business, owner, manager,
resident or address of the premises where the sign is located and which
contains no other material.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign illuminated by an artificial light source either
directed upon it or illuminated from an interior source.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. An artificial or natural surface through which water
cannot easily penetrate.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE. Any surface impervious or resistant to the free
flow of water or surface moisture. IMPERVIOUS COVER shall include, but not be
limited to, all paved driveways and parking areas, tennis courts, sidewalks,
patios and swimming pools. Open decks and stairways, which are 50% or more open
surface, shall not be counted as IMPERVIOUS COVER, provided they are installed
over a permeable surface. Gravel or rock surfaces shall be counted as 50%
impervious, provided they are installed over a permeable surface.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM. A sewage treatment system or part
thereof, serving a dwelling, building, structure or other establishment, or
group thereof and using sewage tanks or advanced treatment followed by soil
treatment and disposal. An INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM includes holding
tanks.
   INDUSTRIAL USE. The use of land or buildings for the production,
manufacture, warehousing, storage or transfer of goods, products, commodities
or other wholesale items.
   INFORMATIONAL SIGN. Any sign giving information to employees, visitors or
delivery vehicles, but containing no advertising or identification. Gas price
and menu board signs are INFORMATIONAL SIGNS and shall not be included in
calculating the size limitations imposed within the respective zoning district.
   INSTITUTIONAL SIGN. A sign identifying the name and other characteristics of
a public or semi-public institution on the premises where the sign is located.
   INTEGRAL SIGN. A sign carrying the name of a building, its date of erection,
monumental citations, commemorative tablets and the like when carved into
stone, concrete or similar material or made of bronze, aluminum or other
permanent type of construction and made an integral part of the structure.
   INTENSIVE VEGETATION CLEARING. The complete removal of trees or shrubs in a
contiguous patch, strip, row or block.
   INTERIM USE. A temporary use of property until a particular date, until the
occurrence of a particular event, or until zoning regulations no longer allow
it.
   INTERIM USE PERMIT. A permit issued in accordance with procedures specified
in this chapter, as a flexible device to enable the City Council to assign time
limits and conditions to a proposed use after consideration of current or
future adjacent uses and their functions.
   INTERLOCK. The painted line or a barrier in a parking lot that separates two
facing rows of parking from one another.
   INTERMITTENT. A stream or portion of a stream that flows only in direct
response to precipitation.
   ISLAND. In parking lot design, built-up structures, usually curbed, placed
at the end of parking rows as a guide to traffic and also used for landscaping,
signing or lighting.
   ITALIANATE ARCHITECTURAL STYLE. An architectural style inspired by rural
Italy and introduced to the United States by way of England. This style is
characterized by the following elements:
      (1)   Asymmetrical building massing;
      (2)   "Boxy" or "square" building character;
      (3)   Extensive use of ornamental brackets;
      (4)   Round-headed windows;
      (5)   Cast iron ornamentation in store fronts and over windows;
      (6)   Building heights of two to three and one-half stories; and
      (7)   Elongated windows.
   JUNKYARD. An open area where waste, used or second hand materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled,
including but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber,
tires and bottles. JUNKYARD includes an auto wrecking yard but does not include
uses established entirely within enclosed buildings. JUNKYARD does not include
sanitary landfills.
   LAND RECLAMATION. The process of the reestablishment of acceptable
topography (i.e., slopes), vegetative cover, soil stability and the
establishment of safe conditions appropriate to the subsequent use of the land.
   LAND SURVEYOR. Persons licensed by the state as a land surveyor.
   LANDSCAPING. Plantings such as trees, grass and shrubs.
   LIGHT INDUSTRIAL USE. A comparatively less intensive industrial use of land
or buildings including the production, manufacture, warehousing, storage or
transfer of goods, products, commodities or other wholesale items.
   LIGHT SOURCE. A single artificial point source of luminescence that emits
measurable radiant energy in or near the visible spectrum.
   LIQUOR SALES, OFF-SALE. Licensed sale of intoxicating beverages for
consumption off site.
   LIQUOR SALES, ON-SALE. Licensed sale of intoxicating beverages for
consumption at the premises where the beverage is purchased.
   LOADING SPACE (OFF-STREET). A formally delineated space, area or berth on
the same lot with a building, or contiguous to a group of buildings, for the
temporary parking of a vehicle or truck while loading or unloading merchandise
or materials.
   LODGING ROOM ESTABLISHMENTS. An establishment that provides short-term
sleeping and living quarters for the exclusive use of its guests with at least
one, but no more than five, lodging rooms available within the structure.
   LOT. Land occupied or to be occupied by a building and its accessory
buildings, together with open spaces as are required under the provisions of
this chapter, having not less than the minimum area required by this chapter
for a building site in the district in which the lot is situated and having its
principal frontage on a public street.
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane within the lot lines.
   LOT AREA, MINIMUM (LOTS OF RECORD AND PRELIMINARY PLATTED LOTS HAVING LEGAL
STANDING PRIOR TO THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS CHAPTER). Except as may be
otherwise required by this chapter, the area of a horizontal plane within the
lot lines.
   LOT, BASE. Lots meeting all the specifications in the zoning district prior
to being subdivided into a two-family dwelling or quadraminium subdivision.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two or more
intersecting streets; or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of a
single street, the interior angle of which is 135 degrees or less.
   LOT COVERAGE. The total allowable amount of lot area, expressed as a
percentage, which may be covered by a principal use and its accessory
structures but not including uncovered porches, decks, ground level landings,
landscape structures or recreational facilities.
   LOT, DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
rear lot line measured from a 90-degree angle from the street right-of-way
within the lot boundaries.
   LOT, FRONTAGE. The narrowest lot boundary abutting a public street that
meets minimum lot width requirements. If none of the boundaries abutting a
public street meet minimum lot width requirements, then the LOT FRONTAGE is the
widest boundary abutting a street. In areas where a lot has two or more
boundaries of equal length that abut a public street, the Zoning Administrator
shall determine the LOT FRONTAGE based upon the character of the area.
   LOT IMPROVEMENT. Any building, structure, place, work of art or other object
or improvement of the land on which they are situated constituting a physical
betterment of real property, or any part of the betterment.
   LOT INTERIOR. A lot, other than a corner lot, including through or double
frontage lots.
   LOT LINE. A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separate
ownership except that where any portion of the lot extends into the abutting
street or alley, the LOT LINE shall be deemed to be the street or alley right-
of-way.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot line separating a lot from the street right-of-way
along the lot frontage.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line opposite and most distant from the lot frontage
which connects the side lot lines.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Lot lines extending away from the lot frontage, which
connects the front and rear lot lines.
   LOT OF RECORD. A parcel of land, whether subdivided and/or otherwise legally
described and recorded or approved by the city as a lot subsequent to that date
and which is occupied by or intended for occupancy by one principal building or
principal use together with any accessory buildings and open spaces as required
by this chapter and having its principal frontage upon a street.
   LOT, SUBSTANDARD. A lot or parcel of land which does not meet the minimum
lot area, structure setbacks or other dimensional standards of this chapter.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot fronting on two parallel streets. Also defined as a
DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT.
   LOT, TRIANGULAR. A lot in which the side lot lines converge into a single
vertex. The vertex shall be deemed to be the rear lot line.
   LOT, UNIT. Lots created from the subdivisions of a two-family dwelling or
quadraminium having different minimum lot size requirements than the
conventional base lots within the zoning district.
   LOT, WIDTH. The minimum required horizontal distance between the side lot
lines measured at right angles to the lot depth, at the front setback line. For
cul-de-sac lots, LOT WIDTH shall mean the minimum required horizontal distance
between the side lot lines, measured along a straight line at the midpoint of
the front setback line.
   LUMINAIRE. A complete lighting unit consisting of a light source and all
necessary mechanical, electrical and decorative parts.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
in the traveling mode is eight-body feet or more in width or 40-body feet or
more in length, or when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and
includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning and electrical systems
contained therein; except that the term includes any structure which meets all
the requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the Secretary of State and complies with the
standards established under M.S. Chapter 327, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any site, lot, field or tract of land upon which two
or more occupied manufactured homes are located, either free of charge or for
compensation and includes any building, structure, tent, vehicle or enclosure
used or intended for use as part of the equipment of the MANUFACTURED HOME
PARK.
   MANUFACTURING. All manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging,
treatment or assembly of products and materials that may emit objectionable and
offensive influences beyond the lot on which the use is located. These uses
include, but are not limited to, sawmills, refineries, commercial feedlots,
acid, cement, explosives, flour, feed and grain milling or storage, meat
packing, slaughter houses, coal or tar asphalt distillation, rendering of fat,
grease, lard or tallow, alcoholic beverages, poisons, exterminating agents,
glue, lime, gypsum, plaster of paris, tanneries, automobile parts, paper and
paper products, glass, chemicals, crude oil and petroleum products including
storage, electric power generation facilities, foundry forge, casting of metal
products, rock, stone and cement products.
   MARQUEE. A canopy.
   MASSAGE THERAPY (THERAPEUTIC).
      (1)   The process by which a practitioner applies massage therapy
techniques and may apply adjunctive therapies, with the intention of positively
affecting the health and well being of the client. The rubbing, stroking,
kneading, tapping, positioning, causing movement and applying touch and
pressure to the body.
      (2)   Adjunctive therapies may include:
         (a)   Application of heat, cold, water, mild abrasives, heliotherapy,
topical preparations not classified as prescription drugs;
         (b)   The use of mechanical devices and tools which mimic or enhance
manual actions; and
         (c)   Instructed self-care and stress management.
      (3)   MASSAGE THERAPY shall not include techniques traditionally
practiced by chiropractors.
   MEDIAN ISLAND. A barrier placed between lanes of traffic.
   MENU BOARD. A sign containing a food price list for restaurant customers,
but containing no advertising or identification.
   METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION. A description of real property which is not
described by reference to a lot or block shown on a map, but is described by
starting at a known point and describing the bearings and distances of the
lines forming the boundaries of the property or delineating a fractional
portion of a section, lot or area by described lines or portions thereof.
   MINERALS. Soil, clay, stone, sand and gravel and other similar solid
material or substance to be mined from natural deposits.
   MINING. All or any part of the process involved in the extraction of
minerals by removing the overburden and extracting directly from the mineral
deposits thereby exposed.
   MIXED MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse and other solid waste from
residential, commercial, industrial and community activities that the generator
of the waste aggregates for collection, but does not include auto hulks, street
sweepings, ash, construction debris, mining waste, sludges, tree and
agricultural wastes, tires, lead acid batteries, used oil and other materials,
collected, processed and disposed of as separate waste streams.
   MODEL HOME. A home which is similar to others in a development and which is
open to public inspection for the purpose of selling the other homes.
   MODULATION. The relationship of bays and building widths to building height.
   MOTION SIGN. Any sign which revolves, rotates, has moving parts or gives the
illusion of motion.
   MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL (TRUCK TERMINAL). A building in which freight brought
by motortruck is assembled and sorted for routing in intrastate and interstate
shipment.
   MOTOR FUEL STATION. A place where gasoline is stored only in underground
tanks, kerosene or motor oil and lubricants or grease, for operation of
automobiles, are retailed directly to the public on premises, and including
minor accessories and services for automobiles, but not including automobile
major repairs and rebuilding.
   NATURAL DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All land surface areas which by nature of their
contour configuration, collect, store and channel surface water runoff.
   NONCOMMERCIAL SPEECH. Dissemination of messages not classified as commercial
speech which include, but are not limited to, messages concerning political,
religious, social, ideological, public service and informational topics.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE OR USE, ILLEGAL. A structure or use that has been
established in a manner that does not conform to the applicable conditions
required by the regulations in place at the time the structure or use was
established.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE OR USE, LEGAL. Any lawfully established structure or
use which following the effective date of this chapter does not conform to the
applicable conditions if the structure or use was to be erected under the
guidance of this chapter.
   NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION. A corporation formed under M.S. Chapter 317A, as it
may be amended from time to time, a church or community or civic group.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity
or displays "specified anatomical area" is provided to be observed, sketched,
drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by other persons
who pay money or any form of consideration.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY. Described as follows:
      (1)   The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus, male genitals, female
genitals or female breast; or
      (2)   A state of dress which fails to opaquely cover a human buttock,
anus, male genitals, female genitals or areola of the female breast.
   NURSERY, COMMERCIAL. A business involving retail sales of trees, flowering
and decorative plants and shrubs for purposes of transplanting which may be
conducted within a building or without.
   NURSERY, WHOLESALE. An enterprise which conducts exclusively wholesale sale
of plants grown on the site to retailers and jobbers. The only accessory items
allowed are pots, potting soil, fertilizers, insecticides, hanging baskets,
rakes, shovels and other hand held tools, but not including power tools or
equipment such as gas or electric lawn mowers and farm implements.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any storage of material or equipment, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, road, dike, pile, abutment, projection, excavation, channel
rectification, culvert, building, wire, fence, stockpile, refuse, fill,
deposit, clearing of trees or vegetation, structure or matter in, along, across
or projecting, in whole or in part, into any floodplain.
   OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE. A temporary storage area for a motor vehicle that
is directly accessible to an access aisle and which is not located on a
dedicated street right-of-way.
   OFFICE BUSINESS CLINIC. An establishment located within a building or
portion of a building providing out-patient health services to patrons,
including general medical clinics, mental health providers, chiropractors,
dentists, orthodontia, oral surgeons, opticians and other uses of similar
character.
   OFFICE BUSINESS GENERAL. An establishment located within a building or
portion of a building for the conduct of business activities involving
predominantly professional administrative or clerical service operations
including attorneys, financial advisors, insurance, travel, real estate and
other uses of similar character.
   ON-STREET PARKING SPACE. A temporary storage area for a motor vehicle which
is located on a dedicated street right-of-way.
   OPACITY. Degree of obscuration of light.
   OPEN SALES LOT (EXTERIOR STORAGE). Any land used or occupied for the purpose
of buying and selling any goods, materials or merchandise and for the storing
of same under the open sky prior to sale.
   OPEN SPACE, COMMON. Land within or related to a development, not
individually owned or dedicated for public use, which is designed and intended
for the common use or enjoyment of the residents of the development and may
include complementary structures and improvements as are necessary and
appropriate.
   OPEN SPACE, GREEN. An open space area not occupied by any structures or
impervious surfaces.
   OPEN SPACE, PUBLIC. Any open space publicly owned.
   OPEN SPACE RATIO. Total area of open space divided by the total site area in
which the open space is located.
   OPEN SPACE. Open areas including parks, nature areas, playgrounds and
trails.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL. The boundary of public waters and wetlands and
shall be an elevation delineating the highest water level which has been
maintained for a sufficient period of time to have evidence upon the landscape,
commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from predominantly
aquatic to predominantly terrestrial. For watercourses, the ORDINARY HIGH WATER
LEVEL is the elevation of the top of the bank of the channel.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK. A mark delineating the highest water level which
has been maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape. The ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK is commonly that point where the
natural vegetation changes from predominantly aquatic to predominantly
terrestrial. In areas where the ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK is not evident,
setbacks shall be measured from the stream bank of the following waterbodies
that have permanent flow or open water; the main channel, the adjoining side
channels, backwaters and sloughs.
   OUTDOOR LIGHTING. Any light source or collection of light sources, located
outside a building, including, but not limited to, light sources attached to
any part of a structure, located on the surface of the ground or located on
freestanding poles.
   OUTDOOR LIGHT FIXTURE. Outdoor electrically powered illuminating devices,
outdoor lighting or reflective surfaces, lamps and similar devices, permanently
installed or portable, used for illumination or advertisement. The fixture
includes the hardware that houses the illumination source and to which the
illumination source is attached including, but not limited to, the hardware
casing. The devices shall include, but are not limited to, search, spot and
flood lights for:
      (1)   Buildings and structures;
      (2)   Recreational areas;
      (3)   Parking lot lighting;
      (4)   Landscaping lighting;
      (5)   Signs;
      (6)   Street lighting;
      (7)   Product display area lighting; and
      (8)   Building overhangs and open canopies.
   OUTLOT. A parcel of land, included in a plat, which is smaller than the
minimum size permitted for lots and which is thereby declared unbuildable until
combined through platting with additional land; or, a parcel of land which is
included in a plat and which is at least double the minimum size and which is
thereby subject to future platting prior to development; or a parcel of land
which is included in a plat and which is designated for public or private open
space, right-of-way, utilities, stormwater ponding or other similar purposes.
   OVERBURDEN. The earth, rock and other materials that lie above a natural
deposit of mineral.
   PARAPET. A low wall which is located on a roof of a building.
   PARK. A tract of land, designated and used by the public for active and
passive recreation.
   PARKING ACCESS. The area of a parking lot that allows motor vehicles ingress
and egress from the street.
   PARKING AREA. Any public or private land area designed and used for parking
motor vehicles including parking lots, garages, private driveways and legally
designated areas of public streets.
   PARKING BAY. The parking module consisting of one or two rows of parking
spaces and the aisle from which motor vehicles enter and leave the spaces.
   PARKING RAMP. A structure designed and used for the storage of motor
vehicles at, below and/or above grade.
   PARKING SPACE. An area enclosed in the principal building, in an accessory
building or unenclosed, sufficient in size to store one motor vehicle, which
has adequate access to a public or private street, alley or driveway permitting
satisfactory ingress and egress of the motor vehicle.
   PAVEMENT.
      (1)   Brick, stone, concrete or asphalt placed on the surface of the
land; and
      (2)   The part of a street having an improved surface.
   PERIMETER LANDSCAPED OPEN SPACE. A landscaped area intended to enhance the
appearance of parking lots and other outdoor auto related uses or to screen
incompatible uses from each other along their boundaries.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation or
organization of any kind. PERSON also means an adult who is disabled by reason
of mental retardation, mental illness, chemical dependency or physical handicap
and a child, whether disabled or not, as defined by M.S. § 245A.02, Subdivision
4, as it may be amended from time to time.
   PERSONAL SERVICE. Includes the following: barber shops; beauty salon;
electrolysis; manicurist; tanning parlor; physical therapy; therapeutic
massage; and tattooing.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE. A device consisting of metal, carbon fiber or
other electromagnetically conductive rods or elements, usually arranged in a
circular array on a single supporting pole or other structure, and used for the
transmission and reception of wireless communication radio waves including
cellular, personal communication service (PCS), enhanced specialized mobilized
radio (ESMR), paging and similar services and including the support structure
thereof.
   PET SHOP. A place kept or maintained for the exhibition for sale or sale or
purchase of live dogs, cats, rabbits or other small animals or any birds,
reptiles or fish. PET SHOPS may include incidental animal grooming and adoption
activities, but not animal hospitals, veterinary clinics or places selling live
bait for fishing.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   As a conditional use permit, a development procedure whereby
internal site design standard deviations from this chapter may be allowed in
order to accommodate improved site design and operation.
      (2)   As a zoning district, a development procedure whereby a mixing of
buildings and uses can occur which cannot be otherwise addressed under this
chapter and/or whereby internal site design standard deviations from this
chapter may be allowed to improve site design and operation.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The City Planning Commission.
   PLAZA. An open space which may be improved and landscaped; usually
surrounded by streets and buildings.
   POLYGON. A closed plane figure with four or more sides.
   PORCH. A covered entrance to a building, usually with a separate roof.
   PORTABLE SIGN. A sign designed to be movable from one location to another
and which is not permanently attached to the ground, sales display device or
structure.
   PRINCIPAL USE/BUILDING. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished
from subordinate or accessory uses. A PRINCIPAL USE may be either permitted,
interim, conditional or allowed by administrative permit.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign, other than a wall sign, which is affixed to a
building and perpendicular from the building wall.
   PUBLIC AREAS. Public parks, playgrounds, trails, paths and other
recreational areas and other public open spaces; scenic and historic sites;
schools and other public buildings and structures.
   PUBLIC ENTRANCE. Passage or opening which affords entry and access to the
general public.
   PUBLIC ENTRANCE, COMMON. A public entrance providing access for the use and
benefit of two or more tenants or building occupants.
   PUBLIC USES AND LANDS. Uses or properties owned or operated by municipal,
school districts, county, state or other governmental units.
   PUBLIC UTILITY MICROWAVE. A parabolic dish or cornucopia shaped
electromagnetically reflective or conductive element used for the transmission
and/or reception of point to point UHF or VHF radio waves in wireless telephone
communications, and including the support structure thereof.
   PUBLIC WATERS. Any waters as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, as they may be
amended from time to time.
   PUBLIC WATERS, NATURAL ENVIRONMENT. Generally small, often shallow lakes
with limited capacities for assimilating the impacts of development and
recreational use. They often have adjacent lands with substantial constraints
for development such as high-water tables, exposed bedrock and unsuitable
soils. These lakes, particularly in rural areas, usually do not have much
existing development or recreational use.
   PUBLIC WATERS, RECREATIONAL DEVELOPMENT. Generally medium-sized lakes of
varying depths and shapes with a variety of landform, soil and ground water
situations on the lands around them. They often are characterized by moderate
levels of recreational use and existing development. Development consists
mainly of seasonal and year-round residences and recreational- oriented
commercial uses. Many of these lakes have capacities for accommodating
additional development and use.
   PUBLIC WATERS, TRIBUTARY RIVERS. Segments consisting of watercourses mapped
in the Protected Waters Inventory that have not been assigned one of the river
classes. These segments have a wide variety of existing land and recreational
use characteristics. The segments have considerable potential for additional
development and recreational use, particularly those located near roads and
cities.
   PUBLICATION. Notice placed in the official city newspaper stating time,
location and date of meeting and description of the topic.
   QUEEN ANNE ARCHITECTURAL STYLE. An architectural style introduced to the
United States by England. This style is characterized by the following
elements:
      (1)   Brick work combined with painted wood work or blond limestone
detailing;
      (2)   Bay windows, often stacked above one another;
      (3)   Corner towers;
      (4)   Asymmetrical storefronts;
      (5)   Recessed entrances.
      (6)   Polychrome exterior paint schemes; and
      (7)   Vertical building emphasis.
   RADIO AND TELEVISION, BROADCAST TRANSMITTING. A wire, set of wires, metal or
carbon fiber rod or other electromagnetic element used to transmit public or
commercial broadcast radio or television programming and including the support
structure thereof.
   RADIO AND TELEVISION RECEIVING. A wire, set of wires, metal or carbon fiber
element(s), other than satellite dish antennas, used to receive radio,
television or electromagnetic waves, and including the support structure
thereof.
   READER BOARD. A sign with an electronic changing message.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A business sign placed upon property advertising that
particular property for sale or rent.
   RECREATION, FIELD OR BUILDING. An area of land, water or any building in
which amusement, recreation or athletic sports are provided for public or
semipublic use, whether temporary or permanent, except a theater, whether
provision is made for the accommodation of an assembly or not. A golf course,
arena, baseball park, stadium or gymnasium is a RECREATION FIELD OR BUILDING
for the purpose of this chapter.
   RECREATIONAL BUSINESS. An establishment designed and equipped to conduct
sports and leisure time activities. RECREATIONAL BUSINESSES shall include, but
not be limited to, arcades, health clubs, gymnasiums, bowling alleys, billiard
(pool) halls, dance halls, dance studios, skating rinks, theaters and indoor
firearm ranges.
   RECREATIONAL CAMPING AREA. Any area, whether privately or publicly owned,
used on a daily, nightly, weekly or longer basis for the accommodation of tents
or recreational camping vehicles free of charge or for compensation.
   RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, operable and
licensed, as required by state law, house trailers including those which
telescope or fold down, chassis mounted campers, house cars, motor homes, tent
trailers, slip in campers, converted buses, converted vans, snowmobiles, boats
and trailers. House trailers, chassis mounted campers, house cars, motor homes,
tent trailers, slip in campers, converted buses and converted vans are units
designed and used for human living quarters and meeting the following
qualifications:
      (1)   Are not used as the residence of the owner or occupant;
      (2)   Are used for temporary living quarters by the owner or occupant
while engaged in recreational or vacation activities; and
      (3)   Are self-propelled or towed on the public streets or highways
incidental to the recreational or vacation activities.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIAL. Materials that can be readily separated from mixed
municipal solid waste for the purpose of recycling, including, but not limited
to, paper, glass, plastics, metals, automobile oil and batteries. RECYCLABLE
MATERIALS that have been separated from the waste stream, processed and sold or
given away for reuse are no longer considered waste.
   REGIONAL. A flood which is representative of large floods known to have
occurred generally in the state and reasonably characteristic of what can be
expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 100-year
reoccurrence interval. REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the term BASE FLOOD
used in the Flood Insurance Study.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. A point not less than one foot above
the elevation of the floodplain, plus any increases in flood heights
attributable to encroachments on the floodplain. It is the elevation to which
uses regulated by this chapter are required to be elevated or floodproofed.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. A building, together with its accessory buildings and
use, where persons regularly assemble for religious purposes and related social
events and which building is maintained and controlled by a religious body
organized to sustain religious ceremonies and purposes.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY, STATE LICENSED. Any program, defined by M.S. §
245A.02, Subdivision 14, as it may be amended from time to time, that provides
24 hour a day care, supervision, food, lodging, rehabilitation, training,
education, habilitation or treatment outside a person's own home, including a
nursing home or hospital that receives public funds, administered by the
Commissioner of the Department of Human Services to provide services for five
or more persons whose primary diagnosis is mental retardation or a related
condition or mental illness and who do not have a significant physical or
medical problem that necessitates nursing home care; a program in an
intermediate care facility for four or more persons with mental retardation or
a related condition; a nursing home or hospital that was licensed by the
Commissioner of the Department of Human Services on July 1, 1987, to provide a
program for persons with a physical handicap that is not the result of the
normal aging process and considered to be a chronic condition; and chemical
dependency or chemical abuse programs that are located in a hospital or nursing
home and receive public funds for providing chemical abuse or chemical
dependency treatment services under M.S. § 254B, as it may be amended from time
to time. Residential programs include home and community-based services for
persons with mental retardation or a related condition that are provided in or
outside of a person's own home.
   RESIDENTIAL SHELTER. A facility providing short-term housing, food and
protection for individuals, not including state licensed residential care
facilities, community correctional facilities, daycare facilities, hotels,
motels or nursing homes.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment that serves food in individual servings for
consumption on or off premises, including sit down restaurants, take out, pick
up or delivery food sales, but not including drive through facilities. Outdoor
dining areas and drive through facilities may or may not be allowed in each
zoning district. They are not automatically allowed when a RESTAURANT is an
allowable use.
   RETAIL BUSINESS. An establishment engaged in the display and sale of
products produced off site directly to consumers within a building or portion
of a building excluding any exterior display and sales.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land acquired by reservation or dedication intended for public
use and intended to be occupied or which is occupied by a street, trail,
railroad, utility lines, oil or gas pipeline, water line, sanitary sewer, storm
sewer or other similar uses.
   ROOF LINE. The top of the coping or, when the building has a pitched roof,
the intersection of the outside wall with the roof.
   ROOF SIGN. Sign erected, constructed or attached wholly or in part upon or
over the roof of a building.
   ROOFS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ca8d3e3c632d9f3ebbd97ba13905b1b6ba248b11/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2151.jpg]
 
   SATELLITE DISH. A device incorporating a reflective surface that is solid,
open mesh or bar configured and is in the shape of a shallow dish, cone, horn
or cornucopia. The device is used to transmit and/or receive radio or
electromagnetic waves between terrestrially and/or orbitally based uses. This
definition shall include, but not be limited to, what are commonly referred to
as satellite earth stations, TVROs (television, receive only) and satellite
microwave antennas and the support structure thereof.
   SATELLITE DISH HEIGHT. The height of the antenna or dish measured vertically
from the highest point of the antenna or dish when positioned for operation, to
the top of the foundation which supports the antenna.
   SCHOOL. A building used for the purpose of elementary or secondary
education, which meets all the requirements of compulsory education laws of the
state and not providing residential accommodations.
   SCHOOL, PRIVATE. Any building or group of buildings, not operated by a
public agency or unit of government, the use of which meets compulsory
education laws of the state for elementary school, middle school (junior high
school), secondary (senior high school) or higher education and which use does
not secure the major part of its funding directly from any governmental source.
   SCHOOL, PUBLIC. Any building or group of buildings, the use of which meets
compulsory education laws of the state for elementary school, middle school
(junior high school), secondary (senior high school) or higher education and
which secures all or the major part of its funding from governmental sources
and is operated by a public agency or governmental unit.
   SCREENING. A method of visually shielding or obscuring one abutting or
nearby structure or use from another structure or use from another by fencing,
walls, berms or densely planted vegetation.
   SECURITY LIGHTING. Outdoor lighting fixtures installed exclusively as a
measure to reduce the possible occurrence of a crime on the property.
   SEMINUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region and areola of the female breast, as well as portions of
the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SENSITIVE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT. The preservation and management of areas
unsuitable for development in their natural state due to constraints such as
shallow soils over ground water or bedrock, highly erosive or expansive soils,
steep slopes, susceptibility to flooding or occurrence of flora or fauna in
need of special protection.
   SERVICE BUSINESS, OFF-SITE. A company that provides useful labor,
maintenance, repair and activities incidental to business production or
distribution where the service is provided at the customer's location,
including delivery services, catering services, plumbing and sewer services and
other uses of similar character.
   SERVICE BUSINESS, ON-SITE. An establishment that provides useful labor,
maintenance, repair and activities incidental to business production or
distribution where the customer patronizes the location of the operation, such
as banks (not including drive through facilities), copy centers, laundromats,
dry cleaners, funeral homes and mortuaries, appliance repair, tailor shops and
travel bureaus.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between the foundation wall of a
structure and the property line nearest thereto. Within Shoreland Districts, it
shall also mean the minimum horizontal distance between a structure, sewage
treatment system or other facility and an ordinary high water level, sewage
treatment system, top of a bluff, road, highway, property line or other
facility.
   SEWER SYSTEM. Pipelines or conduits, pumping stations and force main and all
other constructions, devices, appliances or appurtenances used for conducting
sewage or industrial waste or other wastes to a point of ultimate disposal.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or seminude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or
invited wherein coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically
or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or
other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer
persons per machine at any one time and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BOOKSTORE, SEXUALLY ORIENTED VIDEO STORE OR SEXUALLY
ORIENTED STORE. A commercial establishment which as a principal business
purpose offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or more
of the following:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter or
photographs, films, motion pictures, videocassettes or video reproductions,
compact discs, computer software, digital recordings, slides or other visual
representations which depict or describe "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas;" or
      (2)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use in
connection with "specified sexual activities."
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar
commercial establishment which features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities;" or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, compact discs,
computer software, digital recordings or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A conversation/rap parlor which
excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of engaging in
or listening to conversation, talk or discussion between an employee of the
establishment and a customer, if the service is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas."
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED MASSAGE PARLOR. A massage parlor which excludes minors by
reasons of age, or which provides for any form of consideration, the rubbing,
stroking, kneading, tapping or rolling of the body, if the service provided by
the massage parlor is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment
which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas" and has a sign visible from the public right-
of-way which advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic
reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where,
for any form of consideration, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides
or similar photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are
characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas."
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED SAUNA. A sauna which excludes minors by reason of age, or
which provides for any form of consideration, a steam bath or heated bathing
room used for the purpose of bathing, relaxing or reducing agent, if the
service provided by the sauna is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar
commercial establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state
of nudity or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities."
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USES. Uses which include adult bookstores, adult motion
picture theaters, adult mini-motion picture theaters, adult massage parlors,
adult steam room/bathhouse/sauna facilities, adult companionship
establishments, adult rap/conversation parlors, adult health/sport clubs, adult
cabarets, adult novelty businesses, adult motion picture arcades, adult
modeling studios, adult hotels/motels, adult body painting studios and other
premises, enterprises, establishments, businesses or places open to some or all
members of the public, at or in which there is an emphasis on the presentation,
display, depiction or description of "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas" which are capable of being seen by members of the
public. Activities classified as OBSCENE as defined by M.S. § 617.241, as it
may be amended from time to time, are not included.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USES, ACCESSORY. The offering of retail goods for sale
which are classified as sexually oriented uses on a limited scale and which are
incidental to the primary activity and goods and/or services offered by the
establishment. Examples of these items include the sale of adult magazines, the
sale and/or rental of adult motion pictures, the sale of adult novelties and
the like.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USES, PRINCIPAL. The offering of goods and/or services
which are classified as sexually oriented uses as a primary or sole activity of
a business or establishment.
   SHAFT. One or more floors above the shop front, usually used for less public
kinds of activities, featuring less window area than the ground floor and
emphasizing its vertical dimension.
   SHIELDING. A technique or method of construction permanently covering the
top and sides of a light source by a material which restricts the light emitted
to be projected below an imaginary horizontal plane passing through the light
fixture. See Figure 2 below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ca8d3e3c632d9f3ebbd97ba13905b1b6ba248b11/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2154.jpg]
 
   Figure 2. Shielding
   SHORE IMPACT ZONE. Land located between the ordinary high water level of a
public water and a line parallel to it at a setback of 50% of the structure
setback.
   SHORELAND. Land located within the following distances from public waters:
1,000 feet from the ordinary high water level of a lake, pond or flowage; and
300 feet from a river or stream or the landward extent of a floodplain
designated by ordinance on a river or stream, whichever is greater. The limits
of SHORELANDS may be reduced whenever the waters involved are bounded by
topographic divides which extend landward from the waters for lesser distances
and when approved by the Commissioner.
   SHORT-WAVE RADIO TRANSMITTING AND RECEIVING. A wire, set of wires or a
device, consisting of a metal, carbon fiber or other electromagnetically
conductive element used for the transmission and reception of radio waves used
for short-wave radio communications, and including the support structure
thereof.
   SIDEWALK. A paved, surfaced or leveled area, paralleling and usually
separated from the street, used as a pedestrian walkway.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. A triangular shaped portion of land established at street
intersections in which nothing is erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow
in a manner as to limit or obstruct the sight distance of motorists entering or
leaving the intersection.
   SIGN. Use of words, numerals, figures, devices or trade marks by which
anything is made known such as individuals, firms, professionals, businesses,
services or products and which is visible to the general public.
   SIGN AREA. The area within the marginal lines of the surface of a sign which
bears the advertisement or, in the case of messages, figures or symbols
attached directly to a building or sign structure, that area which is included
in the smallest rectangle or series of geometric figures used to circumscribe
the message, figure or symbol displayed thereon.
   SIGN, MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the grade to the top of
the sign.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. The supports, uprights, bracing and framework for a sign
including the sign area.
   SIGN; AREA IDENTIFICATION. A freestanding sign which identifies the name of
an office or business structure containing three or more structures or an
office or business structure containing three or more independent operations.
   SIGN; AWNING CANOPY OR MARQUEE SIGN. A written or graphic message,
identification or advertisement, as part of or permanently or semi-permanently
affixed to an awning, canopy, marquee or other similar device. Where lighting
is incorporated with the awning, canopy or marquee, the apparatus shall not be
construed as a sign exclusive of the area physically designed to form the
message, identification or advertisement thereto.
   SIGN; DYNAMIC DISPLAY. Any characteristics of a sign that appear to have
movement or that appear to change, caused by any method other than physically
removing and replacing the sign or its components, whether the apparent
movement or change is in the display, the sign structure itself, or any other
component of the sign. This includes a display that incorporates a technology
or method allowing the sign face to change the image without having to
physically or mechanically replace the sign face or its components. This also
includes any rotating, revolving, moving, flashing, blinking, or animated
display and any display that incorporates rotating panels, LED lights
manipulated through digital input, digital ink or any other method or
technology that allows the sign face to present a series of images or displays.
The display of current fuel prices for permitted motor fuel stations is not
considered to be a DYNAMIC DISPLAY SIGN.
   SIGN; FLASHING. An illuminated sign upon which the artificial light is not
kept constant in intensity or color when the sign is in use or any sign which
by mechanical means appears to simulate a flashing sign.
   SIGN; FREESTANDING. Any sign supported by structures or supports that are
placed on or anchored in, the ground and that are independent from any building
or other structure.
   SIGN; HOLIDAY SIGNS. A holiday sign shall be defined as decorations and/or
messages which recognize an official national, state or local holiday or
community festival.
   SIGN; ILLUMINATED. Any sign which has characters, letters, design or
outlines illuminated by artificial light direct to or from the interior of the
sign.
   SIGN; MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the grade to
the top of the sign.
   SIGN; MINIMUM HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the nearest
finished grade to the lower limit of the sign.
   SIGN; MONUMENT. A block-type sign structure not supported by poles or
braces, but rather placed directly on the ground.
   SIGN; PORTABLE. Any temporary sign not permanently attached to the ground or
other permanent structure or a sign designed to be transported, including but
not limited to, signs designed to be transported by means of wheels, signs
converted to A or T frames and signs attached to or painted on vehicles parked
and visible from the public right-of-way, unless a vehicle is used in the
normal day to day operations of the business.
   SIGN; PROJECTING. Any sign other than a wall sign affixed to any building or
wall whose leading edge extends beyond the building or wall.
   SIGN; PYLON. A freestanding sign mounted on top of a single post which is
greater than ten feet in height.
   SIGN; ROOF. Any sign which is erected, constructed or attached wholly or in
part upon or over the roof of a building.
   SIGN; SANDWICH BOARD. Two boards with messages, hinged at the top and used
on sidewalks or yards for advertising.
   SIGN; SNIPE. Sign(s) of any material whatsoever that is painted on or
attached in any way to a utility pole, tree, rock or any object located or
situated on public or private property.
   SIGN; TEMPORARY. A sign erected or displayed for a specified period of time
and is not permanently mounted.
   SIGN; WALL. Any sign attached parallel to a wall, painted on the wall
surface or which projects less than 15 inches from the surface at all points of
the building or structure, and which displays only one sign surface.
   SIGN; WALL GRAPHIC. A sign which is painted directly on an exterior wall.
   SIGN; WINDOW. Any sign, pictures, symbol or combination thereof, designed to
communicate information about an activity, business, commodity, event, sale or
service that is placed inside a window or within 36 inches of a window or upon
the window panes or glass and is visible from the exterior of the building.
   SLOPE. The degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, usually,
expressed in percent or degrees.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREA. Human genitals in a state of sexual arousal.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1)(b)1. through (1)(b)3. above of this
definition.
   SPILLAGE. Any reflection, glare or other artificial light that emits onto
any adjoining property or right-of-way and is above a defined maximum
illumination.
   STEEP SLOPE. Land where agricultural activity or development is either not
recommended or described as poorly suited due to slope steepness and the site's
soil; characteristics, as mapped and described in available county soil surveys
or other technical reports, unless appropriate design and construction
techniques and farming practices are used in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. Where specific information is not available, STEEP SLOPES are
lands having average slopes over 12%, as measured over horizontal distances of
50 feet or more, that are not bluffs.
   STORAGE, OUTDOOR. Storage of any property not fully enclosed in a building
or completely screened so as not to be visible from adjoining properties or
street rights-of-way.
   STOREFRONT BUILDING. A commercial building located at the street line, with
display windows and principal entry on the ground floor facing the sidewalk.
STOREFRONT BUILDINGS typically include traditional elements such as a sign band
above the storefront, a transom, a recessed entry and a kick plate as a base to
the storefront.
   STORY. The portion of a building including beneath the upper surface of a
floor and upper surface of floor next above, except that the top-most story
shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of the
top-most floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level
directly above a basement or cellar, or unfinished under floor space is more
than six feet above "grade" as defined herein for more than 50% of the total
perimeter or is more than 12 feet above "grade" as defined herein at any point,
the basement, cellar or unused under floor space shall be considered a STORY.
   STREET. A public right-of-way which affords primary means of access to
abutting property and shall also include an avenue, highway, road or way or
however otherwise designated.
   STREET, ARTERIAL. A street which is the major interconnection within a
community transportation system providing major access routes within the
community and its environs.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street which serves or is designed to serve as a
traffic way for a neighborhood or as a feeder to a major street.
   STREET FRONTAGE. The proximity of a parcel of land to one or more streets.
An interior lot has one STREET FRONTAGE and a corner lot has two or more
frontages.
   STREET FURNITURE. Human-made, above-ground items that are usually found in
street rights-of-way, including benches, kiosks, plants, canopies, shelters and
phone booths.
   STREET, LOCAL. A street intended to serve primarily as an access to abutting
properties.
   STREET PAVEMENT. The wearing or exposed surface of the roadway used by
vehicular traffic.
   STREET WIDTH. The width of the improved surface of the street as measured at
right angles or radially to the centerline of the street from curb face to curb
face, or on a street without curbs from the outside edge of the improved
shoulder to outside edge of improved shoulder.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change, other than incidental repairs, which
would prolong or modify the life of the supporting members of a building, such
as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or foundations.
   STRUCTURE. Anything which is built, constructed or erected; an edifice or
building of any kind; or any piece of work artificially built up and/or
composed of parts joined together in some definite manner whether temporary or
permanent in character.
   SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any building or other structure other than a tower which
can be used for location of antennas.
   SURFACE WATER-ORIENTED COMMERCIAL USE. The use of land for commercial
purposes, where access to and use of a surface water feature is an integral
part of the normal conductance of business. Marinas, resorts and restaurants
with transient docking facilities are examples of this use.
   TATTOO (TATTOOING). Any method of placing designs, letters, scrolls,
figures, symbols or any other mark upon, under or in the skin with ink or any
other substance resulting in the coloration of the skin by the aid of needles
or any other instruments which puncture any portion of the skin to any degree.
   TEMPORARY COMMERCIAL STRUCTURE. A structure used on a temporary basis for an
occupation, employment, or enterprise that is carried on by the owner, lessee
or licensee.
   TEMPORARY MOBILE. Any mobile tower, pole or structure located on a trailer,
vehicle or temporary platform intended primarily for the purpose of mounting an
antenna or similar apparatus for personal wireless services, also commonly
referred to as cellular on wheels (COW).
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign erected or displayed for a specified period of time.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. A structure not permanently erected on a site with a
foundation that is used for emergency purposes or used on a construction site
for offices and equipment storage during construction of a permanent structure.
   TOWER. A self-supporting lattice, guyed or monopole structure constructed
from grade which supports personal wireless service antennas. The term ANTENNA
TOWER shall not include amateur radio operators' equipment, as licensed by the
FCC.
   TRADITIONAL BUILDING. Typically, a one- or two-story storefront building, as
defined above. Other buildings may be considered traditional for the purpose of
these guidelines based on their age, architectural character or associations
with persons or events important to the city's history.
   TRAILER, SEMI-TRACTOR. A trailer with a set or sets of wheels at the rear
only, which may be supported in front by a truck, tractor or towing vehicle and
which is used for the purpose of, but not limited to, storage, transportation
of freight, or holding freight for sale or lease.
   TRANSIT STATION. A building or area which serves as a regular stopping place
for buses and/or other forms of urban public transportation.
   TRANSMISSION LINE. Those high capacity conductors generally rated 115 kV and
above and associated structures which are used to carry electricity from points
of generation to distribution points such as substations and distribution
lines.
   TRANSPARENT or OPAQUE. Addresses how easy it is for pedestrian passersby to
see the activity within a shop. TRANSPARENT SHOPS serve better to attract
people into the shop, while OPAQUE STOREFRONT represent a break in the retail
continuity.
   TRUCK STOP. Any building, premises or land in which or upon which a
business, service or industry involving the maintenance, cleaning, servicing,
storage or repair of commercial vehicles is conducted including the dispensing
of motor fuel, the sale of accessories or equipment for trucks and similar
commercial vehicles. A TRUCK STOP may also include overnight accommodations,
restaurant facilities, a car wash and truck wash or other ancillary uses.
   TRUCK TERMINAL. A building or area in which freight brought by truck is
assembled and/or temporarily stored for re-routing or re-shipment. The terminal
facility may also include storage and/or parking areas for truck tractor and/or
trailer units.
   TWINHOME. A two-family dwelling with two units side-by-side.
   UNDUE HARDSHIP. The same as that term is defined in M.S. Chapter 462.357, as
it may be amended from time to time, meaning that the property in question
cannot be put to a reasonable use if used under the conditions allowed by this
chapter, the plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to the
property not caused by the landowner and a variance, if granted, shall not
alter the character of the locality. Economic considerations alone shall not
constitute an UNDUE HARDSHIP if a reasonable use of the property exists under
the terms of this chapter. UNDUE HARDSHIP may also include inadequate access to
direct sunlight for solar energy systems.
   UNDULATION. Variation in the height and/or roof lines of a series of
adjacent buildings, as well as variation in the horizontal relationship of
adjacent building facades.
   USABLE OPEN SPACE. A required ground area or terrace area on a lot which is
graded, developed, landscaped and/or equipped and intended and maintained for
either active or passive recreation or both, available and accessible to and
usable by all persons occupying a dwelling unit or rooming unit on the lot or a
development project and their guests. These areas shall be grassed and
landscaped or covered only for a recreational purpose. Roofs (excluding roof
gardens), driveways and parking areas shall not constitute USABLE OPEN SPACE.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designated, arranged or intended or for which it is occupied, utilized or
maintained and shall include the performance of the activity as defined by the
performance standards of this chapter.
   USE, ACCESSORY. A use subordinate to and servicing the principal use or
structure on the same lot and customarily incidental thereof.
   USE, NONCONFORMING. Use of land, buildings, or structures legally existing
at the present time or at the time of a subsequent amendment to this chapter
which does not comply with the regulations as set forth.
   USE, PERMITTED. A public or private use which of itself conforms with the
purposes, objectives, requirements, regulations and performance standards of a
particular district.
   USE, PRINCIPAL. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from
subordinate or accessory uses. A PRINCIPAL USE may be either permitted or
accessory.
   USE, SECONDARY. A use of land or of a building or a portion thereof which is
subordinate to and does not constitute the primary use of the land or building.
   VARIANCE. A modification of or variation from the provisions of this chapter
consistent with the state enabling statute for municipalities, as applied to a
specific property and granted pursuant to the standards and procedures of this
chapter, except that a variance shall not be used for modification of the
allowable uses within a district and shall not allow uses that are prohibited.
   VEGETATION. The sum total of plant life in some area; or a plant community
with distinguishable characteristics.
   VERTEX. The corner point of a triangle, rectangle or other geometric figure
bounded by lines.
   VETERINARY CLINIC. A clinic operated by a licensed veterinarian exclusively
for the diagnosis, treatment, correction, relief or prevention of animal
disease, deformity, defect, injury or other physical or mental conditions; the
performance of obstetrical procedures for animals, including determination of
pregnancy and correction of sterility or infertility; and the rendering of
advice or recommendations with regard to any of the above.
   WALL GRAPHICS. A sign painted directly on an exterior wall.
   WALL SIGN. A sign affixed to the exterior wall of a building and which is
parallel to the building wall. A WALL SIGN does not project more than 12 inches
from the surface to which it is attached, nor extend beyond the top of the
parapet wall.
   WASTE. Infectious waste, nuclear waste, pathological waste, sewage sludge,
solid waste and hazardous waste.
   WASTE FACILITY. Property used for the accumulation, storage, processing or
disposal of waste.
   WASTE, HAZARDOUS. Any refuse, sludge or other waste material or combination
of refuse, sludge or other waste materials in solid, semisolid, liquid or
contained gaseous form which because of its quantity, concentration or
chemical, physical or infectious characteristics may:
      (1)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious or irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when not properly treated, stored or transported or disposed of
or otherwise managed. Categories of hazardous waste materials include, but are
not limited to, explosives, flammable, oxidizers, poisons, irritants and
corrosives. Hazardous waste does not include source, special nuclear or
byproduct material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2011 et seq.
   WASTE, INFECTIOUS. Laboratory waste, blood, regulated body fluids, sharps
and research animal waste that has not been decontaminated.
   WASTE, PATHOLOGICAL. Human tissue and body parts removed accidentally or
during surgery or autopsy intended for disposal. PATHOLOGICAL WASTE does not
include teeth.
   WATER-ORIENTED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR FACILITY. A small, above ground
building or other improvement, except stairways, fences, docks and retaining
walls, which because of the relationship of its use to a surface water feature,
reasonably needs to be located closer to public waters than the normal
structure setback. Examples of these structures and facilities include
boathouses, gazebos, screen houses, fish houses, pump houses and detached
docks.
   WATERBODY. A body of water (lake, pond) or a depression of land or expanded
part of a river or an enclosed basin that holds water and is surrounded by
land.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel or depression through which water flows year-round or
intermittently, such as rivers, streams or creeks.
   WETLANDS. Lands transitional between terrestrial and aquatic systems where
the water table is usually at or near the surface or the land is covered by
shallow water. For purposes of this chapter, WETLANDS must have the following
three attributes:
      (1)   Have a predominance of hydric soils;
      (2)   Are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of hydrophytic
vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions; and
      (3)   Under normal circumstances, support a prevalence of vegetation.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS). Any device that is designed to convert
wind power to another form of energy such as electricity or heat (also referred
to by common names as wind charger, wind turbine and windmill).
   WINDOW HEAD. The upper horizontal cross member or decorative element of a
window frame. The HEADS OF WINDOWS are formed in a variety of ways; some are
semi-circle, arches or triangular shapes. Some have bold and rich decorative
moldings.
   WINDOW SIGN. A sign affixed to or inside of a window in view of the general
public. This does not include merchandise on display.
   YARD. Any open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground upward, except as
otherwise provided herein. In measuring a YARD for the purpose of determining
the width of a side yard, the mean horizontal distance between the lot line and
the main building shall be used except in the case of a lot containing or
adjacent to all or a portion of a wetland, in which case the distance between
the nearest edge of the wetland and the main building shall be as provided by §
152.184 of this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. The area extending along the full length of a front lot line
between side lot lines and to the depth required in the yard regulations for
the district in which it is located. In the case of a corner lot abutting one
or more streets, both yards shall be considered FRONT YARDS.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot lying between
the rear lot line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal building.
   YARD, REQUIRED. That distance specified in the yard requirements pertaining
to setbacks. Setbacks and REQUIRED YARDS are used interchangeably.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the side line of the lot and the nearest line of
the principal building and extending from the front lot line of the lot to the
rear yard.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The person designated by the City Council to be the
Zoning Administrator for the city.
   ZONING DISTRICT. An area or areas of the city (as delineated on the zoning
map) set aside for specific uses with specific regulations and provisions for
use and development as defined by this chapter.
   ZONING DISTRICT, OVERLAY. A zoning district containing regulations
superimposed upon other zoning district regulations and superseding the
underlying zoning district use regulations.
   ZONING DISTRICT, UNDERLYING (BASE). All zoning districts except overlay
zoning districts.
   ZONING MAP. The map or maps incorporated into this chapter as part thereof,
designating the zoning districts.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 302, passed 2-16-2010;
Ord. 303, passed 5-18- 2010; Ord. 305, passed 8-3-2010; Ord. 331, passed 8-6-
2013; Ord. 376, passed 5-18-2021)
ADMINISTRATION; GENERAL
§ 152.035 DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   Certain applications of this chapter require study and action by the City
Council, the Planning Commission, city staff, the applicant and various
experts, in varying combinations dependent upon the nature of the nonstandard
use or proposed use or change. These include proposed conditional use permits,
variances, site plan reviews, zoning ordinance text or map amendments and
appeals on zoning questions.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.036 DECISIONAL PROCESS.
   The City Council, acting as the Board of Adjustment and Appeals under M.S.
§§ 462.357(6), 462.359(4) and 15.99, as they may be amended from time to time,
shall make the decisions within the legislative and executive framework of the
city on applicable development applications.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.037 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   An application for a zoning ordinance text or map amendment, conditional use
permit, interim use permit, variance and/or site plan review shall be processed
in accordance with the following procedure.
   (A)   Timeline. Pursuant to M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from time to
time, an application for an amendment shall be approved or denied within 60
days from the date of its official and complete submission unless extended by
the city pursuant to statute or a time waiver is granted by the applicant.
   (B)   Application. Applications shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator
on an official application form of the city, accompanied by a fee as
established by City Council resolution. The application shall also be
accompanied by detailed written and graphic materials fully explaining the
proposed change, development or use. The number of copies to be provided and
any additional data shall be determined by the Zoning Administrator.
Applications shall be complete before they are accepted. A complete application
shall include the following information:
      (1)   A city application form(s) relating to the request signed by all
persons with an interest in the subject property affected by the request. A
copy of an owner's duplicate certificate of title or other approved
documentation of interest shall also be submitted with the signed application
form(s);
      (2)   All supporting information required by this chapter and/or outlined
in §
152.135 of this chapter and application documents included with the city
application forms;
      (3)   Payment of all fees, associated with the applicable application(s);
      (4)   A pre-application meeting shall be required by city staff at which
the appropriate application procedures, requirements and applicable provisions
relating to the request will be reviewed and explained; and
      (5)   An application will be deemed complete unless the applicant
receives written notice within 15 business days exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays
and legal holidays of its submission indicating it is not complete and
indicating what information is missing. This notice shall be considered given
by its deposit in the United States mail, first class postage prepaid,
addressed to any listed applicant at the address given on the application form.
In the event the applicant fails to provide an address on the application form,
this notice requirement for incomplete applications shall be deemed waived by
the applicant.
   (C)   Additional data. The City Council, Planning Commission and city staff
may request additional information from the applicant concerning the
application or may require as a condition of proceeding with its consideration
of any matter that the applicant furnish expert opinion and data at the expense
of the application.
   (D)   Technical reports. The Zoning Administrator shall instruct the
appropriate staff persons to prepare technical reports where applicable, and
provide general assistance in preparing a recommendation on the action to the
Planning Commission and City Council. The technical reports are to be entered
in and made part of the record of the Planning Commission and forwarded to the
City Council.
   (E)   Notice of hearing. For applications involving zoning amendments,
conditional use permits, interim use permits and variances, the Zoning
Administrator shall set a date for a public hearing. Notice of the hearing
shall consist of a legal property description, a general description of the
property location and a description of the request to be published in the
official newspaper at least ten days prior to the hearing. With the exception
of zoning amendments to properties in excess of five acres, written notices
shall be mailed not less than ten days nor more than 30 days prior to the
hearing to all owners of property, according to the records available to the
city, within 350 feet of each parcel included in the request.
   (F)   Notice not received. Failure of the city to send or a property owner
to receive notice shall not invalidate any proceedings under this chapter,
provided that a bona fide attempt has been made to comply with the requirements
of division (E) above of this section.
   (G)   Hearing. After receipt of the report of the Zoning Administrator, the
Planning Commission shall conduct the public hearing and consider the
application at its next regular meeting.
   (H)   Presentation of application. The applicant or a representative of the
applicant shall appear before the Planning Commission in order to present the
case for the application and to answer questions concerning the request.
   (I)   Recommendations of Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall
recommend actions or conditions relating to the application as deemed necessary
or desirable to carry out the intent and purpose of this chapter and the
Comprehensive Plan. The recommendation shall be either in the minutes or by
written resolution and forwarded to the City Council.
   (J)   Record before City Council. The Zoning Administrator shall place the
report and recommendation of the Planning Commission and the city staff on the
City Council agenda after Planning Commission action, or the expiration of 60
days after the first consideration by the Commission, whichever is earlier,
subject to the limitations of M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from time to
time. The reports and recommendations shall be entered in and made part of the
permanent written record of the City Council meeting.
   (K)   City Council review. Subject to the limitations of M.S. § 15.99, as it
may be amended from time to time, the City Council shall act upon an
application after it has received the report and recommendation from the
Planning Commission. If, upon receiving the reports and recommendations of the
Planning Commission and Zoning Administrator, the City Council desires further
consideration, or finds that inconsistencies exist in the review process, data
submitted or recommended action, the City Council may, before taking final
action, refer the matter back to the Planning Commission with a statement
detailing the reasons for referral.
   (L)   City Council action.
      (1)   Approval of a proposed amendment shall require a majority vote of
all members of the City Council. Amendments which change all or part of the
existing classification of a zoning district from residential to either
commercial or industrial shall require a two-thirds majority vote of all
members of the City Council.
      (2)   Denial of applications for amendment shall be accompanied by
written findings of fact of the City Council, including supporting data setting
forth the reasons for the denial in terms of the ways in which the proposed use
fails to meet the standards and intent of the Comprehensive Plan and/or this
chapter and is otherwise injurious to the public health, safety and welfare.
      (3)   Approval of an amendment shall be effective upon its date of
publication.
   (M)   Approvals required.
      (1)   Approval of an amendment shall require a majority vote of all
members of the City Council. Amendments which change all or part of the
existing classification of a zoning district from residential to either
commercial or industrial require a four-fifths super majority vote of all
members of the City Council.
      (2)   Approval of a request for conditional use permit, interim use
permit or variance shall require passage by a three-fifths vote of all members
of the City Council.
      (3)   Approval of a request for site and building plan review shall
require passage by a majority vote of all members of the City Council.
   (N)   Notice to applicant. The Zoning Administrator shall notify the
applicant of the decision of the City Council in writing, including any
relevant resolution and findings which may have been passed by the City
Council.
   (O)   Filing of notice of action. A certified copy of any zoning ordinance
amendment, conditional use permit, interim use permit or variance authorized
shall be filed with the County Recorder.
   (P)   Reconsideration. Whenever an application has been considered and
denied by the City Council, a similar application affecting substantially the
same property shall not be considered again by the Planning Commission or City
Council before the expiration of six months from the date of its denial and any
succeeding denials. However, a decision to reconsider the matter may be made by
not less than four-fifths vote of all members of the City Council at any time.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.038 EXPIRATION OF ZONING APPROVALS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specified by the City Council at the time it is
authorized, a conditional use permit, interim use permit, variance or site and
building plan approvals, shall be null and void and expire if the applicant
fails to implement the approvals and fulfill each and every condition attached
thereto within one year from the date of its authorization unless a petition
for an extension of time in which to implement the approved plans has been
granted by the Zoning Administrator provided that:
      (1)   The extension is requested in writing and filed with the city at
least 30 days prior to the expiration of the initial conditional use permit
request;
      (2)   The request for extension states facts demonstrating that a good
faith attempt has been made to complete or utilize the use or activity
permitted in the approval;
      (3)   A maximum of one administrative extension shall be granted;
      (4)   The extension shall not exceed 90 days from the initial expiration
date; and
      (5)   There shall be no charge for the filing of a petition for an
administrative extension.
   (B)   The City Council may grant an extension of greater than 90 days
provided that:
      (1)   The conditions described in division (A)(1) through (A)(3) above
are satisfied;
      (2)   The extension shall not exceed one year from the initial expiration
date; and
      (3)   The filing of a petition for extension is subject to fee
requirements established by City Council resolution.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.039 PERFORMANCE AGREEMENT.
   Upon approval of a conditional use permit, interim use permit, variance,
site plan and/or administrative permit, the city may require the applicant to
enter into a performance agreement prior to the issuing of building permits or
initiation of work on the proposed improvement or development. The agreement
shall guarantee conformance and compliance with the conditions of the approval
and the codes of the city. The performance agreement shall be prepared and
approved by the City Attorney and shall contain, but not be limited to, the
following items and conditions.
   (A)   Performance security. The performance agreement shall require the
applicant to provide financial security to assure compliance with the agreement
and conditions of the approval. The security may be in the form of a surety
bond, cash escrow, certificate of deposit, irrevocable letter of credit,
securities or cash deposit. The security shall be in an amount determined by
the City Engineer or Building Official under the direction of and approved by
the Council, to cover estimated costs of labor and materials for the proposed
improvements or development. The project can be handled in stages with prior
approval of the city.
   (B)   Security release. The city shall hold the security until completion of
the proposed improvements or development and a certificate of occupancy
indicating compliance with the application approval and Building Code of the
city has been issued by the City Building Official.
   (C)   Security forfeiture. Failure to comply with the conditions of the
application approval and/or the ordinances of the city shall result in
forfeiture of the security.
   (D)   Hold harmless and indemnification of city. The applicant shall agree
to indemnity and hold harmless the city and its agents and employees against
any and all claims, demands, losses, damages and expenses (including attorney
fees) arising out of or resulting from the applicant's negligent or intentional
acts, violation of any safety law and regulation or any code in the performance
of this agreement, without regard to any inspection or review made or not made
by the city, its agents or employees or failure to take any other prudent
precaution. In the event any city employee, agent or representative shall come
under the direct or indirect control of the applicant or the city upon failure
of the applicant to comply with any conditions of the approval, performs the
conditions pursuant to the bond, the applicant shall indemnify and hold
harmless the city, its employees, agents and representatives for its own
negligent or intentional acts in the performance of the applicant's required
work under the permit.
   (E)   Fees. The applicant shall agree to pay any and all attorney and
consultant fees incurred by the city to enforce the terms and conditions of any
application approval or provisions of any performance agreement relating to the
permits.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.040 APPEALS FROM ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION.
   The City Council, serving as the Board of Appeals and Adjustments, shall,
after receiving the written report of the Zoning Administrator, make findings
of fact and make a decision on appeals where it is alleged by the appellant
that error has occurred in any order, interpretation requirement, decision or
determination made by any administrative office or the Zoning Administrator in
the enforcement of this chapter. However, the appeal shall be filed not later
than 60 days after the applicant has received a written order from the city or
the appeal shall be void.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-6) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.041 COST RECOVERY.
   (A)   Purpose. The costs of the city for receiving, analyzing, processing,
hearing and final process for requests of changes, modification or special
consideration under this chapter, such as requests for rezoning (map or text),
conditional use permits, interim use permits and variances are considered to be
unique to the applicant requesting consideration, and it is the intent of this
section to provide that all costs of the city occasioned by the requests shall
be borne by the applicant. The reimbursement to the city shall be limited to
actual costs of the city. Actual costs shall include all engineering, legal,
planning or other consultant fees or costs paid by the city for other
consultants for expert review of a development application.
   (B)   Base zoning fee. Each applicant shall pay a non-refundable base zoning
fee at the time an application is presented to the city for a zoning change of
any nature, site and building plan review, a conditional use or a variance.
This fee is intended to reimburse the city for its costs for administrative
processing a development application. If this fee proves to be insufficient to
cover the costs, the additional costs will be charged as a part of the zoning
deposit or the supplemental zoning deposit.
   (C)   Escrow deposit. In addition to the non-refundable basic zoning fee,
each applicant shall pay an escrow deposit in an amount established by City
Council resolution at the time of application. All actual costs including, but
not limited to, planning, engineering, legal or other consultant fees or costs,
incurred by the city in the processing of the application shall be paid from or
reimbursed to the city, from the escrow deposit. Actual costs not fully paid or
reimbursed from the base zoning fee shall be paid or reimbursed from this
escrow or supplemental deposit.
   (D)   Supplemental deposit. At any time while the application is pending and
before its final conclusion, if the Zoning Administrator determines that the
amount of the escrow deposit required by division (C) above of this section is
or is estimated to be insufficient to pay for present or anticipated actual
costs of the application, a supplementary deposit shall be required by the
Zoning Administrator to be paid by the applicant. The one or more supplemental
deposits shall be in an amount sufficient to pay all actual costs of the city.
   (E)   Refunds; administrative costs. The base zoning fee, intended to cover
administrative costs, is non-refundable.
   (F)   Refunds; direct costs. If the direct costs of the city in processing
the application are less than the amount of the escrow deposit and any
supplemental deposit, any overage shall be refunded to the applicant upon the
conclusion of the proceedings, and any costs in excess of the supplemental
deposits on hand with the city shall be paid by the applicant prior to
completion of the proceedings by the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-7) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.042 CERTIFICATION OF TAXES PAID.
   Prior to approving an application for amendment, conditional use permit,
interim use permit, variance or administrative permit, the applicant shall
provide certification to the city that there are no delinquent property taxes,
special assessments, interest or city utility fees due upon the parcel of land
to which the application relates.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-8) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.043 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Zoning Administrator.
The Zoning Administrator may institute in the name of the city any appropriate
actions or proceedings against a violator. Whenever a violation of this chapter
occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written
complaint. The complaint shall state fully the causes and basis thereof and
shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator. That person shall record properly
the complaint, immediately investigate and take action thereon as provided by
this chapter.
   (A)   Enforcement procedure. For the enforcement of the provisions of the
zoning regulations, the first zoning violation notice shall be sent by regular
mail and the second notice will be sent by certified mail or return receipt
requested to the property owner of which the violation is taking place. The
zoning violation notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   A description of the violation which is taking place;
      (2)   A picture (if possible) of the violation which is taking place;
      (3)   Location and/or address of the property at which the violation is
taking place;
      (4)   Identification of the section of the zoning regulations which is
being violated;
      (5)   Date the violation was discovered;
      (6)   Steps necessary to correct the violation; and
      (7)   Deadline in which the violation must be corrected, which is at the
discretion of the Zoning Administrator, but which in no case may be longer than
30 days from the date the first notice is mailed.
   (B)   Correction of the zoning violation. Correction of the violation in the
manner stipulated by the zoning notice violation, at any point during this
enforcement process, shall deem the zoning violation notice null and void and
enforcement activity shall cease.
   (C)   Failure to correct zoning violation; enforcement remedies. Failure to
correct the zoning violation shall result in the city pursuing enforcement
action following notification to the property owner, with the city having the
authority to carry out the following enforcement remedies.
      (1)   Withhold permits. The city shall have the authority to withhold any
permits or city approvals which are necessary until the violation is corrected
to the city's satisfaction.
      (2)   Stop work order. The city shall have the authority to issue a stop
work order on the subject violation.
      (3)   Abatement. The city shall have the authority to require that the
violation be abated by completely removing or stopping the item or use which
has been identified in the zoning violation notice.
      (4)   Injunctive relief. The city shall have the authority to seek an
injunction in court to stop any violation of this chapter.
      (5)   Civic remedies. The city shall have the authority to institute
appropriate civil action to enforce the provisions of this chapter and shall
recover reasonable court costs and attorney's fees which are incurred due to
the enforcement of the subject violation, at the discretion of the court.
      (6)   Assessment. The city shall have the authority to use the provisions
of M.S. § 429, as it may be amended from time to time, assess any charge
against the property benefitted and any assessment shall, at the time at which
taxes are certified to the County Auditor, be certified for collection in the
manner that other special assessments are so certified.
      (7)   Criminal remedies. The city shall have the authority to institute
appropriate misdemeanor criminal action for a violation of this chapter.
      (8)   Cumulative remedies. The powers and remedies of this section shall
not be individually limited and are not exclusive. The powers and remedies of
this section are cumulative and all power and remedies may apply, as well as
any other remedies allowed under state law.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-9) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
ADMINISTRATION; AMENDMENTS
§ 152.055 AMENDMENTS, INITIATION.
   The City Council or Planning Commission may, upon their own motion, initiate
a request to amend the text or the district boundaries of this chapter. The
procedural requirements of this section shall not apply to the proposed
amendments except to the extent required by state statute. Any person owning
real estate within the city may initiate a request to amend the district
boundaries or text of this chapter so as to affect the real estate.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.056 PROCEDURE.
   Application for an amendment of this chapter (text or map) requires a public
hearing and is to be processed in accordance with the procedures set forth in §
152.037 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.057 CRITERIA.
   The Planning Commission shall consider possible effects of the proposed
amendment. Its judgment shall be based upon, but not limited to, the following
factors:
   (A)   The proposed action has been considered in relation to the specific
policies and provisions of and has been found to be consistent with the
official City Comprehensive Plan;
   (B)   The proposed use is or will be compatible with present and future land
uses of the area;
   (C)   The proposed use conforms with all performance standards contained in
this chapter;
   (D)   The proposed use can be accommodated with existing public services and
will not overburden the city's service capacity; and
   (E)   Traffic generation by the proposed use is within capabilities of
streets serving the property.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.058 EFFECTUATION.
   Approval of an amendment of this chapter (text or map) shall become
effective upon its passage and publication.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
ADMINISTRATION; CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
§ 152.070 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of a conditional use permit is to provide the city with a
reasonable degree of discretion in determining the suitability of certain
designated uses upon the general welfare, public health and safety. In making
this determination, whether or not the conditional use is to be allowed, the
city may consider the nature of the adjoining land or buildings, the effect
upon traffic into and from the premises or on any adjoining streets, and all
other or further factors as the city shall deem a prerequisite of consideration
in determining the effect of the use on the general welfare, public health and
safety.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.071 PROCEDURE.
   An application for a conditional use permit requires a public hearing and is
to be processed in accordance with the procedures outlined in §
152.037 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.072 CRITERIA.
   The Planning Commission shall consider possible effects of the proposed
conditional use. Its judgment shall be based upon, but not limited to, the
following factors:
   (A)   The proposed action has been considered in relation to the specific
policies and provisions of and has been found to be consistent with the
official City Comprehensive Plan;
   (B)   The proposed use is or will be compatible with present and future land
uses of the area;
   (C)   The proposed use conforms with all performance standards contained in
this code;
   (D)   The proposed use can be accommodated with existing public services and
will not overburden the city's service capacity; and
   (E)   Traffic generation by the proposed use is within capabilities of
streets serving the property.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.073 GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   As may be applicable, the evaluation of any proposed conditional use permit
request shall be subject to and include, but not be limited to, the following
general performance standards and criteria.
   (A)   The use and the site in question shall be served by a street of
sufficient capacity to accommodate the type and volume of traffic which would
be generated and adequate right-of-way shall be provided.
   (B)   The site design for access and parking shall minimize internal as well
as external traffic conflicts and shall be in compliance with §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter.
   (C)   If applicable, a pedestrian circulation system shall be clearly
defined and appropriate provisions made to protect the areas from encroachment
by parked or moving vehicles.
   (D)   Adequate off-street parking and off-street loading shall be provided
in compliance with §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter.
   (E)   Loading areas and drive-up facilities shall be positioned so as to
minimize internal site access problems and maneuvering conflicts, to avoid
visual or noise impacts on any "adjacent" residential use or district and
provided in compliance with §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter.
   (F)   Whenever a nonresidential use is "adjacent" to a residential use or
district, a buffer area with screening and landscaping shall be provided in
compliance with §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter.
   (G)   General site screening and landscaping shall be provided in compliance
with §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter.
   (H)   All exterior lighting shall be so directed so as not to cast glare
toward or onto the public right-of-way or neighboring residential uses or
districts and shall be in compliance with §
152.187 of this chapter.
   (I)   Potential exterior noise generated by the use shall be identified and
mitigation measures, as may be necessary, shall be imposed to ensure compliance
with §
152.191 of this chapter.
   (J)   The site drainage system shall be subject to the review and approval
of the City Engineer.
   (K)   The architectural appearance and functional design of the building and
site shall not be so dissimilar to the existing or potential buildings and area
so as to cause a blighting influence. All sides of the principal and accessory
structures are to have essentially the same or coordinated, harmonious exterior
finish materials and treatment.
   (L)   All signs and informational or visual communication devices shall be
in compliance with §§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter.
   (M)   The use and site shall be in compliance with any federal, state or
county law or regulation that is applicable and any related permits shall be
obtained and documented to the city.
   (N)   Any applicable business licenses mandated by the city code are
approved and obtained.
   (O)   The hours of operation may be restricted.
   (P)   The use complies with all applicable performance standards of the
zoning district in which it is located and where applicable, any
nonconformities shall be eliminated.
   (Q)   All additional conditions pertaining to a specific site are subject to
change when the Council, upon investigation in relation to a formal request,
finds that the general welfare and public betterment can be served as well or
better by modifying or expanding the conditions set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.074 REVOCATION.
   The Planning Commission may recommend, and the City Council may direct, the
revocation of any conditional use permit for cause upon determination that the
authorized conditional use is not in conformance with the conditions of the
permit or is in continued violation of this chapter, city codes or other
applicable regulations. The City Council or Planning Commission shall initiate
an application and the Zoning Administrator shall notify the responsible person
that they have an opportunity to show cause why the permit should not be
revoked. The application shall be processed and considered pursuant to §
152.037 of this chapter. The Zoning Administrator shall provide the responsible
person a copy of the proceedings and findings of the Planning Commission and
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
ADMINISTRATION; INTERIM USE PERMITS
§ 152.085 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of allowing interim uses is:
   (A)   To allow a use for a temporary period of time until a permanent
location is obtained or while the permanent location is under construction;
   (B)   To allow a use that is presently judged acceptable by the City
Council, but that with anticipated development or redevelopment, will not be
acceptable in the future or will be replaced in the future by a permitted or
conditional use allowed within the respective district; and
   (C)   To allow a use which is reflective of anticipated long-range change to
an area and which is in compliance with the Comprehensive Plan provided that
the use maintains harmony and compatibility with surrounding uses and is in
keeping with the architectural character and design standards of existing uses
and development.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.086 PROCEDURE.
   An application for an interim use permit requires a public hearing and is to
be processed in accordance with the procedures set forth in §
152.037 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.087 CRITERIA.
   The Planning Commission shall consider possible effects of the proposed
interim use. Its judgment shall be based upon, but not limited to, the factors
outlined in §
152.072 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.088 GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   As may be applicable, the evaluation of any proposed interim use permit
request shall be subject to and include, but not be limited to, the general
performance standards and criteria outlined in §
152.073 of this chapter and the following:
   (A)   The date or event that will terminate the use can be identified with
certainty;
   (B)   The use will not impose additional unreasonable costs on the public;
   (C)   The user agrees to any conditions that the City Council deems
appropriate for permission of the use; and
   (D)   The use is allowed as an interim use in the respective zoning
district.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.089 TERMINATION.
   An interim use shall terminate on the happening of any of the following
events, whichever occurs first:
   (A)   The date or event stated in the permit;
   (B)   Upon violation of conditions under which the permit was issued;
   (C)   Upon change in the zoning regulations which renders the use
nonconforming; or
   (D)   The property is redeveloped to a permitted or conditional use allowed
in the respective zoning district.
(Prior Code, § 11-6-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
ADMINISTRATION; VARIANCES
§ 152.100 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for deviations from the literal
provisions of this chapter in instances where their strict enforcement would
cause undue hardship because of circumstances unique to the individual property
under consideration, and to grant the variances only when it is demonstrated
that the actions will be in keeping with the spirit and intent of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.101 PROCEDURES.
   An application for variance from the provisions of this chapter requires a
public hearing and is to be processed in accordance with the procedures set
forth in §
152.037 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.102 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS.
   The City Council shall act as the Board of Adjustment and Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.103 CRITERIA.
   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall not approve any variance request
unless it finds failure to grant the variance will result in undue hardship on
the applicant, and, as may be applicable, all of the following criteria have
been met.
   (A)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific parcel of land involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of the regulations were to be carried out.
   (B)   The conditions upon which an application for a variance is based are
unique to the parcel of land for which the variance is sought and are not
applicable, generally, to other property within the same zoning classification.
   (C)   The purpose of the variance is not based exclusively upon a financial
hardship, or a desire to increase the value or income potential of the parcel
of land.
   (D)   The alleged difficulty or hardship is caused by this chapter and has
not been created by any persons having an interest in the parcel of land and is
not a self-created hardship.
   (E)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other land or improvements in the neighborhood in which
the parcel of land is located.
   (F)   The proposed variance will not impair an adequate supply of light and
air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the congestion of the
public streets or increase the danger of fire or endanger the public safety.
   (G)   The variance is the minimum action required to eliminate the hardship.
   (H)   The variance does not involve a use that is not allowed within the
respective zoning district.
(Prior Code, § 11-7-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
ADMINISTRATION; ADMINISTRATIVE PERMITS AND APPROVALS
§ 152.115 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish regulations and procedures
for the processing and consideration of activities allowed by administrative
permit, and of matters requiring the approval of the Zoning Administrator with
the goal of protecting the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.116 ADMINISTRATIVE PERMITS.
   (A)   Procedure.
      (1)   Application for an administrative permit shall be filed by the
property owner or designated agent with the Zoning Administrator on forms to be
provided by the city.
      (2)   The application shall be accompanied by a fee as established by
City Council ordinance. Applications for amending administrative permits shall
be accompanied by a fee as established by City Council resolution.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator, with the help of city staff, shall review
the application and related materials and shall determine whether the proposal
is in compliance with all applicable evaluation criteria, codes, ordinances and
applicable performance standards set forth in this chapter. The Zoning
Administrator shall notify the applicant, in writing, of an incomplete
application within 15 business days of the date of submission.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator's review shall be based upon the following
factors:
         (a)   Compliance with and effect upon the Comprehensive Plan and
public facilities plans;
         (b)   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the use, event or
activity will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety or
welfare;
         (c)   The establishment of the use, event or activity will not
conflict with existing uses and will not impede the normal and orderly
development and improvement of surrounding property for uses permitted in the
district;
         (d)   Adequate public facilities and services are available or can be
reasonably provided to accommodate the use, event or activity which is
proposed; and
         (e)   The use, event or activity shall, in all other respects, conform
to the applicable regulations of the district in which it is located and to the
performance standards as outlined in §
152.073 of this chapter and all other applicable provisions of this chapter.
      (5)   The Zoning Administrator shall make a determination on approval or
denial of the administrative permit within 60 days from the date of submission
of a complete application.
      (6)   A written permit shall be issued to the applicant when a
determination of compliance has been made. Specific conditions to assure
compliance with applicable evaluation criteria, codes, ordinances and the
standards of this chapter shall be attached to the permit.
      (7)   Determination of noncompliance with applicable codes, ordinances
and the standards in this chapter shall be communicated to the applicant in
writing and the application for the permit shall be considered denied.
      (8)   Unresolved disputes as to administrative application of the
requirements of this section shall be subject to appeal as defined by §
152.040 of this chapter.
   (B)   Information requirement. The information required for all
administrative permit applications shall include:
      (1)   A concise statement describing the proposed use, event or activity,
including the purpose, type of merchandise involved, dates and times of
operation, number of employees involved, provisions for on-site security,
provisions for on-site parking and other pertinent information required by the
Zoning Administrator to fully evaluate the application;
      (2)   A copy of the approved site plan for the property or an "as-built"
survey which accurately represents existing conditions on the site, including
entrances and exits, bona fide parking and driving areas and which accurately
indicates any proposed temporary structures, including tents, stands and signs;
      (3)   An accurate floor plan, when in the judgment of the Zoning
Administrator, a plan is necessary to properly evaluate the location of the
event and the effectiveness of available entrances and exits;
      (4)   Certification of current sales tax number as issued by the state,
if applicable; and
      (5)   Information identified in §
152.135 of this chapter, as may be applicable.
   (C)   Performance standards. All structures, uses, events or activities
allowed by administrative permit shall conform to the applicable standards
outlined in the zoning district in which the structure, use, event or activity
is proposed, as well as the applicable standards in §
152.073 of this chapter.
   (D)   Administration and enforcement.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall keep a record of applications and
administrative permits.
      (2)   A copy of all administrative permits issued shall be forwarded to
appropriate staff as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   Enforcement of the provisions of this section shall be in
accordance with §
152.043 of this chapter. Violation of an issued permit or of the provisions of
this section also shall be grounds for denial of future permit applications.
   (E)   Certification of taxes paid. Prior to approving an application for an
administrative permit, the applicant shall provide certification to the city
that there are no delinquent property taxes, special assessments, interest or
city utility fees due upon the parcel of land to which the administrative
permit application relates.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.117 NON-PERMIT APPROVALS.
   In cases where the Zoning Administrator is given approval authority without
a requirement for an administrative permit, determinations shall be based upon
the criteria outlined in §
152.116(A)(4) of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.118 SITE IMPROVEMENT PERFORMANCE AGREEMENT AND FINANCIAL GUARANTEE.
   Following the approval of an administrative permit or non-permit approval as
required by this section and prior to the issuing of any building permits or
the commencing of any work, the applicant, as may be applicable, shall
guarantee to the city the completion of all private exterior amenities as shown
on the approved site plan and as required by the administrative permit or non-
permit approval. The guarantee shall be made by means of a site improvement
performance agreement and a financial guarantee as specified in §
152.039 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-8-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
ADMINISTRATION; SITE AND BUILDING PLAN REVIEW
§ 152.130 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish a formal site and building
plan review procedure and provide regulations pertaining to the enforcement of
site design standards consistent with the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-9-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.131 EXCEPTIONS TO REVIEW.
   Except in those cases specifically cited within this subchapter, the
following shall be exempted from the requirements of this subchapter:
   (A)   Single-family detached dwellings; and
   (B)   Two-family attached dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 11-9-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.132 SKETCH PLAN.
   (A)   Prior to the formulation of a site plan, applicants may present a
sketch plan to the Zoning Administrator prior to filing of a formal
application. The plan shall be conceptual but shall be drawn to scale with
topography of a contour interval not greater than two feet and may include the
following:
      (1)   The proposed site with reference to existing development,
topography and drainage conditions on adjacent properties, at least to within
200 feet;
      (2)   Natural features;
      (3)   General location of existing and proposed structures including
signs;
      (4)   Tentative access, circulation and street arrangements, both public
and private;
      (5)   Amenities to be provided such as recreational areas, open space,
walkways, landscaping and the like;
      (6)   General location of parking areas;
      (7)   Proposed public sanitary sewer, water and storm drainage;
      (8)   A statement showing the proposed density of the project with the
method of calculating the density also shown; and
      (9)   Other items as may be deemed necessary by the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator may forward the sketch plan to the Planning
Commission and City Council for their discussion and comment. No formal action
shall be taken. Any opinions or comments provided to the applicant by the
Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission and/or City Council shall be
considered advisory only and shall not constitute a binding decision on the
request.
   (C)   Sketch plan review shall not activate the 60-day time requirements
pursuant to M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 11-9-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.133 PROCEDURE.
   An application for site and building plan review is to be processed in
accordance with the provisions of §
152.037 of this chapter. A public hearing is not required to consider an
application for site and building plan review.
(Prior Code, § 11-9-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.134 CRITERIA.
   The Zoning Administrator shall evaluate the proposed site plan based upon
compliance with the City Comprehensive Plan, provisions of this chapter and
other applicable chapters of the city code.
(Prior Code, § 11-9-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.135 INFORMATION REQUIREMENT.
   The information required for all site plan applications generally consists
of the following items and shall be submitted unless waived by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (A)   Site boundaries, buildings, structures and other improvements shall be
identified on-site with a current certificate of survey, prepared and signed by
a state licensed land surveyor, depicting the following:
      (1)   Scale of plan (engineering scale only, at one inch equals 50 feet
or less);
      (2)   North point indication;
      (3)   Existing boundaries with lot dimension and area;
      (4)   Existing site improvements;
      (5)   All encroachments;
      (6)   Easements of record;
      (7)   Legal description of the property; and
      (8)   Ponds, lakes, springs, rivers or other waterways bordering on or
running through the subject property.
   (B)   A site plan utilizing a copy of the current certificate of survey as a
base for the site in question, depicting the following:
      (1)   Name and address of developer/owner;
      (2)   Name and address of architect/designer;
      (3)   Date of plan preparation;
      (4)   Dates and description of all revisions;
      (5)   Name of project or development; and
      (6)   All proposed improvements, including:
         (a)   Required and proposed setbacks;
         (b)   Location, setback and dimensions of all proposed buildings and
structures;
         (c)   Location of all adjacent buildings located within 200 feet of
the exterior boundaries of the property in question;
         (d)   Location, number, dimensions and setbacks of proposed parking
spaces and drive aisles;
         (e)   Location, number and dimensions of proposed loading spaces;
         (f)   Location, width and setbacks of all curb cuts and driveways;
         (g)   Vehicular circulation;
         (h)   Sidewalks, walkways, trails;
         (i)   Location and type of all proposed lighting, including details of
all proposed fixtures;
         (j)   Location of recreation and service areas;
         (k)   Location of rooftop equipment and proposed screening;
         (l)   Provisions for storage and disposal of waste, garbage and
recyclables, including details for screening exterior trash/recycling
enclosures; and
         (m)   Location, sizing and type of water and sewer system mains and
proposed service connections.
   (C)   Grading/stormwater drainage plan, utilizing a copy of the current
certificate of survey as a base for the site in question, prepared and signed
by a state licensed engineer, depicting the following:
      (1)   Existing contours at two-foot intervals (may be prepared by a state
licensed surveyor);
      (2)   Proposed grade elevations at two foot maximum intervals;
      (3)   Drainage plan, including the configuration of drainage areas and
calculations;
      (4)   Storm sewer, catch basins, invert elevations, type of castings and
type of materials;
      (5)   Spot elevations (may be prepared by a state licensed surveyor);
      (6)   Proposed driveway grades;
      (7)   Surface water ponding and treatment areas; and
      (8)   Erosion control measures.
   (D)   Landscaping plan, utilizing a copy of the current certificate of
survey as a base for the site in question, depicting the following:
      (1)   Planting schedule (table) containing:
         (a)   Symbols;
         (b)   Quantities;
         (c)   Common names;
         (d)   Botanical names;
         (e)   Sizes of plant material;
         (f)   Root specification (bare root, balled and burlapped, potted and
the like); and
         (g)   Special planting instructions.
      (2)   Location, type and size of all existing significant trees to be
removed or preserved;
      (3)   Planting detail (show all species to scale at normal mature crown
diameter or spread for local hardiness zone);
      (4)   Typical sections with details of fences, tie walls, planter boxes,
tot lots, picnic areas, berms and the like;
      (5)   Typical sections with details of landscape islands, planter beds
and foundation plantings with identification of materials used;
      (6)   Note indicating how disturbed soil areas will be restored through
the use of sodding, seeding or other techniques;
      (7)   Delineation of both sodded and seeded areas with respective areas
in square feet;
      (8)   Coverage plan for underground irrigation system, if any;
      (9)   Where landscape or human-made materials are used to provide
screening from adjacent and neighboring properties, a cross-through section
shall be provided showing the perspective of the site from the neighboring
property at the property line elevation; and
      (10)   Other existing or proposed conditions which could be expected to
affect landscaping.
   (E)   Other plans and information as required by the Zoning Administrator
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Architectural elevations of all principal and accessory buildings
(type, color and materials used in all external surfaces);
      (2)   "Typical" floor plan and "typical" room plan drawn to scale with a
summary of square footage for each use or activity;
      (3)   Fire protection plan;
      (4)   Extent of and any proposed modifications to land within the
Floodplain District, as may be applicable;
      (5)   Type, location and size (area and height) of all signs to be
erected upon the property in question;
      (6)   Vicinity map showing the subject property in reference to nearby
highways or major street intersections;
      (7)   Sound source control plan; and
      (8)   Lighting plan.
(Prior Code, § 11-9-6) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.136 PLAN MODIFICATIONS.
   An amended site plan involving major changes shall be applied for and
administered in a manner similar to that required for a new site plan.
(Prior Code, § 11-9-7) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.137 BUILDING CODES.
   (A)   Review and approval. The review and approval of site improvements
pursuant to the requirements of city adopted Building and Fire Codes shall be
in addition to the site plan review process established under this section. The
site plan approval process does not imply compliance with the requirements of
these Building and Fire Codes.
   (B)   Building permit required. Except as hereinafter provided, no person,
firm or corporation shall construct, erect, repair, demolish or move any
building or structure or parts thereof within the corporate limits of the city
without first securing a building permit from the city. Application for a
building permit shall be made on a blank form to be furnished by the city.
   (C)   Building permit issuance. The Building Official shall issue the
building permit only after determining that the building plans, together with
the application, comply with the terms of this chapter and the State Building
Code.
   (D)   Schedule of fees, charges and expenses. The City Council shall
establish a schedule of fees, charges and expenses and a collection procedure,
for building permits, appeals and other matters pertaining to this chapter and
State Building Code. The schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the
City Administrator and may be altered or amended only by the City Council per
resolution.
   (E)   Building permit information.
      (1)   All building permit applications shall be accompanied by the
following documents, unless exempted by the Building Official:
         (a)   Two sets of building plans and specifications showing all
easements and elevations (in relation to street grade);
         (b)   Two copies of a certificate of survey;
         (c)   Two copies of a plot plan indicating property lines, building
setbacks (from right- of-way) and location of all utility lines;
         (d)   Two set of mechanical, plumbing, electrical and fire sprinkler
(if applicable) plans; and
         (e)   Special inspections.
      (2)   City utility information is available for review by the public
during regular office hours at City Hall. If further information is required,
the City Engineer shall be contacted at the inquirer's expense. The city
accepts no liability for:
         (a)   Locations of any service lines; and
         (b)   Locations of utilities not shown on city utility maps.
      (3)   The processing of building permits takes approximately two weeks
provided all information is submitted.
      (4)   Applicants are responsible for pick up and payment of building
permits.
      (5)   No building permit will be issued until payment is made in full,
including all deposit(s), letters of credit, securities, maintenance bonds,
insurance and the like.
      (6)   Inspections during construction may be made by contacting the
Building Official to request an appointment a minimum of 24 hours in advance.
Applicants are advised that the site address, inspection record and approved
plans shall be posted on site or no inspection will be performed and a re-
inspection fee may be charged.
      (7)   Any work which begins prior to issuance of a building permit shall
be subject to a civil penalty determined by the City Council.
      (8)   Prior to occupancy of any building, a final inspection must be
performed. When a final inspection is completed, the Building Official will
issue a certificate of occupancy.
   (F)   Certificate of occupancy requirement. The purpose of a certificate of
occupancy inspection is to ensure that all aspects of the plans which were
approved for a building permit have been complied with by verifying that with
an on-site visual inspection of the project. At the completion of a building
project, a request for a certificate of occupancy inspection shall be made for
the following types of projects:
      (1)   New residences and residential buildings;
      (2)   New commercial, industrial and institutional buildings;
      (3)   Additions to existing commercial, industrial and institutional
buildings;
      (4)   Change of commercial, industrial and institutional use; and
      (5)   Changes of occupancy load of a commercial, industrial and
institutional use.
(Prior Code, § 11-9-8) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.138 PLAN AGREEMENTS.
   All site and construction plans officially submitted to the city shall be
treated as a formal agreement between the applicant and the city. Once
approved, no changes, modifications or alterations shall be made to any plan
detail, standard or specifications without prior submission of an amended site
plan to the city for its consideration.
(Prior Code, § 11-9-9) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES
§ 152.150 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is established to provide comprehensive procedures and
standards designed for both district and conditional use permit planned unit
development to allow the development of neighborhoods or portions thereof
incorporating a variety of residential types and nonresidential uses.
Recognizing that traditional density, bulk, setbacks, use and subdivision
regulations which may be useful in protecting the character of substantially
developed areas, may not be appropriate to control development in less
developed areas. The PUD, by allowing deviation from the strict provisions of
this chapter related to setbacks, heights, lot area, width and depths, yards
and the like by conditional use permit or a mixture of uses by rezoning to a
PUD District, is intended to encourage:
   (A)   A development pattern in harmony with the objectives of the
Comprehensive Plan;
   (B)   Innovations in development that address growing demands for all styles
of economic expansion, greater variety in type, design, architectural standards
and siting of structures through the conservation and more efficient use of
land in those developments;
   (C)   Higher standards of site and building design through the use of
trained and experienced land planners, architects and landscape architects;
   (D)   The preservation and enhancement of desirable site characteristics
such as environmentally sensitive areas, existing vegetation, natural
topography, greenway corridors, open space, geologic features and the
prevention of soil erosion;
   (E)   A creative use of land and related physical development which allows a
phased and orderly transition of varying land uses in close proximity to each
other;
   (F)   More convenience in location of accessory commercial and service
areas;
   (G)   An efficient use of land resulting in smaller networks of utilities
and streets thereby lowering development costs and public investments; and
   (H)   Promotion of a desirable and creative environment that might be
prevented through the strict application of city zoning and subdivision
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-10-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.151 PUD TYPES.
   (A)   Conditional use permit. Planned unit developments allow for design
flexibility related to density, setbacks, building heights, lot area, lot width
and the like. However, the range of uses allowed in a conditional use planned
unit development is limited to those uses allowed in the base zoning district.
   (B)   Planned unit development zoning. A mixed use planned unit development
that may include land uses from a variety of zoning districts must utilize the
PUD Zoning District.
(Prior Code, § 11-10-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.152 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS FOR A PUD.
   (A)   Ownership. An application for PUD approval shall be filed by the
landowner or jointly by all landowners of the property included in a project.
The application and all submissions shall be directed to the development of the
property as a unified whole. In the case of multiple ownership, the approved
PUD shall be binding on all owners.
   (B)   Comprehensive Plan consistency. The proposed PUD shall be consistent
with the City Comprehensive Plan.
   (C)   Public or common open space. Public or common open space at least
sufficient to meet the minimum requirements established in this chapter and the
complementary structures and improvements as are necessary and appropriate for
the benefit and enjoyment of the residents of the PUD shall be provided within
the area of the PUD.
   (D)   Operating and maintenance requirements for PUD common open space/
facilities. Whenever common open space or service facilities are provided
within the PUD, the PUD plan shall contain provisions to assure the continued
operation and maintenance of the open space and service facilities to a
predetermined reasonable standard. Common open space and service facilities
within a PUD may be placed under the ownership of one or more of the following,
as approved by the City Council:
      (1)   Dedicated to public, where a community-wide use is anticipated and
the City Council agrees to accept the dedication;
      (2)   Landlord control, where only use by tenants is anticipated; and
      (3)   Property owners association, provided all of the following
conditions are met.
         (a)   Declaration. Prior to the use or occupancy or sale or the
execution of controls for sale of an individual building unit, parcel, tracts,
townhouse, apartment or common area, a declaration of covenants, conditions and
restrictions or an equivalent document or a document as specified by the State
Common Interest Ownership Act set out in M.S. Chapter 515B, as it may be
amended from time to time, and a set of floor plans as specified by M.S.
Chapter 515B, as it may be amended from time to time, shall be filed with the
city. The filing with the city is to be made prior to the filings of the
declaration or document or floor plans with the recording officers of the
county.
         (b)   Specification. The declaration of covenants, conditions and
restrictions or equivalent documents shall specify that deeds, leases or
documents of conveyance affecting buildings, units, parcels, tracts, townhouses
or apartments shall subject the properties to the terms of the declaration.
         (c)   Formation of an owner's association or corporation. The
declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions shall provide that an
owner's association or corporation shall be formed and that all owners shall be
members of the association or corporation which shall maintain all properties
and common areas in good repair and which shall assess individual property
owners proportionate shares of joint or common costs. The intent of this
requirement is to protect the property values of the individual owner through
establishing private control. The homeowners association documents or the
declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions shall be submitted as
part of the preliminary plat application and shall contain the following
information:
            1.   The legal description of the common lands or facilities;
            2.   The restrictions placed upon the use and enjoyment of the
lands or facilities including the persons or entities entitled to enforce the
restrictions;
            3.   A mechanism for resolving disputes among the owners or
association members;
            4.   A mechanism to assess and enforce the common expenses for the
land or facilities including upkeep and maintenance expenses, real estate taxes
and insurance premiums;
            5.   The conditions and timing of the transfer of ownership and
control of land or facilities to the association or to common ownership;
            6.   Membership must be mandatory for each owner and any successive
buyer;
            7.   The open space restrictions must be permanent and not for a
given period of years;
            8.   The association must be responsible for liability insurance,
local taxes and the maintenance of the open space facilities to be deeded to
it;
            9.   Property owners must pay their pro rated share of the cost of
the association by means of an assessment to be levied by the association which
meets the requirements for becoming a lien on the property in accordance with
state statutes; and
            10.   The bylaws and rules of the association and all covenants and
restrictions to be recorded must be approved by the City Council prior to the
approval of the final PUD plan.
         (d)   Assessments. The declaration shall additionally, among other
things, provide that in the event the association or corporation fails to
maintain properties in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of
the city or fails to pay taxes or assessments on properties as they become due
and in the event the city incurs any expenses in enforcing its rules and
regulations, which expenses are not immediately reimbursed by the association
or corporation, then the city shall have the right to assess each property its
pro rated share of the expenses. The assessments, together with interest
thereon and costs of collection, shall be a lien on each property against which
each assessment is made.
         (e)   Natural habitat. Open space may be deeded to an established land
trust, a government agency or nonprofit organization. Management shall be the
responsibility of the land trust or nonprofit organization. Maintenance may be
performed by the neighborhood homeowner association, through written agreement
between the association and the land trust or nonprofit organization.
            1.   Open space may be protected by establishing conservation
easements in perpetuity in favor of an established land trust or nonprofit
organization as provided in M.S. §§ 84.64 through 84.65, as they may be amended
from time to time. Unless the document establishing the restrictions
specifically provides to the contrary, the city shall have no responsibility
for the maintenance or management of the area subject to the restrictions. The
form and content of the deed or other instrument establishing the restrictions
must be approved by the city prior to the execution and delivery thereof.
Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, the city may, in
cases where conservation restrictions are utilized to meet open space
dedication requirements of this chapter, waive the requirement that the area
subject to the restrictions be platted as a separate outlot.
            2.   Stormwater drainage systems located within open spaces or the
residential lots shall be covered by utility and drainage easements dedicated
on the final plat to the city.
         (f)   Neighborhood recreational and trail corridor. Recreational open
space or trail corridors intended as public parks or public trails shall be
dedicated to the city. Management and maintenance of the public recreational
areas shall be the responsibility of the city.
   (E)   Staging of public and common open space. When a PUD provides for
common or public open space, the total area of common or public open space in
any stage of development shall, at minimum, bear the same relationship to the
total open space to be provided in the entire PUD as the stages or units
completed or under development bear to the entire PUD.
   (F)   Density. The maximum allowable density in a PUD shall be determined by
reference to the Comprehensive Plan. Within that limit, the exact density
allowable shall be determined by standards agreed upon between the applicant
and the city. Whenever any PUD is to be developed in stages, no stage shall,
when averaged with all previously completed stages, have a residential density
that exceeds 100% of the proposed residential density of the entire PUD, unless
this provision is explicitly modified in the planned unit development/
developer's agreement approved by the City Council.
   (G)   Utilities. In any PUD, all utilities, including telephone,
electricity, gas and telecable shall be installed underground within a joint
trench, whenever possible.
   (H)   Utility connections.
      (1)   Water connections. Where more than one property is served from the
same service line, a shut off valve must be located in a way that each unit's
service may be shut off by the city, in addition to the normally supplied shut
off at the street.
      (2)   Sewer connections. Where more than one unit is served by a sanitary
sewer lateral which exceeds 400 feet in length, provision must be made for a
manhole to allow adequate cleaning and maintenance of the lateral. All
maintenance and cleaning shall be the responsibility of the property owners
association or owner.
   (I)   Roadways. All public streets shall conform to the design standards
contained in the city subdivision regulations, as may be amended.
   (J)   Landscaping. In any PUD, landscaping shall be provided according to a
plan approved by the City Council, which shall include a detailed planting list
with sizes and species indicated as part of the final plan. In assessing the
landscaping plan, the City Council shall consider the natural features of the
particular site, the architectural characteristics of the proposed structure(s)
and the overall scheme of the PUD plan. Common landscaped open space exclusive
of natural habitat areas shall be irrigated.
   (K)   Development agreement. Prior to a rezoning or the issuance of a
building permit as part of planned unit development, the permit, applicant,
builder or developer shall execute and deliver to the City Council a
development agreement. The agreement shall detail all use restrictions and
required on and off-site improvements conditional to the PUD rezoning or CUP
approval. The agreement shall provide for the installation within one year of
the off-site and on-site improvements (exclusive of building permit) as
approved by the City Council, secured by a cash escrow or letter of credit in
an amount and with surety and conditions satisfactory to the city, to insure
the city that the improvements will be actually constructed and installed
according to specifications and plans approved by the city as expressed in the
agreement.
   (L)   Setbacks.
      (1)   The front and side yard restrictions of the periphery of the
planned unit development site at a minimum shall be the same as imposed in the
base zoning districts.
      (2)   No building shall be located less than 15 feet from the back of the
curb line along those roadways which are part of the internal street pattern.
(Prior Code, § 11-10-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.153 PROCEDURE FOR PROCESSING A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Stages of PUD. The processing steps for a PUD are intended to provide
for an orderly development and progression of the plan, with the greatest
expenditure of developmental funds being made only after the city has had ample
opportunity for informed decisions as to the acceptability of the various
segments of the whole as the plan affects the public interest. The various
steps represent separate applications for purpose of review, compliant with
M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from time to time, outlined in detail in the
following sections:
      (1)   Pre-application staff meeting. Preliminary discussions between the
applicant and city staff;
      (2)   General concept plan application. Consideration of overall concept
and plan;
      (3)   Development stage plan application. One or more detailed plans as
part of the whole final plan; and
      (4)   Final plan application. The summary of the entire concept and each
development stage plan in an integrated complete and final plan.
   (B)   Pre-application meeting. Prior to filing of an application for PUD,
the applicant of the proposed PUD shall arrange for and attend a city staff
meeting. At the pre-application meeting, the applicant shall be prepared to
generally describe the proposal for a PUD. The primary purpose of the
conference shall be to provide the applicant with an opportunity to gather
information and obtain guidance as to the general suitability of the proposal
for the area for which it is proposed and its conformity to the provisions of
this chapter before incurring substantial expense in the preparation of plans,
surveys and other data.
   (C)   Neighborhood meeting. The city may recommend the property owner/
applicant hold a neighborhood meeting for informal comment and feedback prior
to submitting a formal concept application.
   (D)   Application. The person applying for a planned unit development shall
fill out and submit to the Zoning Administrator an official application form
together with a fee per the city's fee schedule. The request for planned unit
development shall be placed on the agendas of the Planning Commission according
to the city's deadline and meeting schedule.
   (E)   Planned unit development/rezoning. Planned unit development/rezoning
application shall be posted and advertised in accordance with §§
152.035 through
152.043 of this chapter at time of development stage PUD.
   (F)   Planned unit development/conditional use permit. Planned unit
development/conditional use permit applications shall be posted and advertised
in accordance with §§
152.035 through
152.043 of this chapter at time of development stage PUD.
   (G)   Public hearings. Public hearings shall be held at the PUD development
stage.
   (H)   General concept plan.
      (1)   Purpose. The general concept plan provides an opportunity for the
applicant to submit a plan to the city showing the basic intent and the general
nature of the entire development without incurring substantial cost. This
concept plan serves as the basis for public hearing so that the proposal may be
publicly considered at an early stage.
      (2)   General concept plan submission information.
         (a)   General information.
            1.   Owner. The landowner's name, address and telephone number and
his or her interest in the subject property;
            2.   Applicant. The applicant's name, address and telephone number
if different from the landowner. The applicant may designate an agent to be
contacted by the city, who may speak for the applicant;
            3.   Consultants. The names and addresses of all professional
consultants who have contributed to the development of the PUD plan being
submitted, including attorney, land planner, engineer and surveyor; and
            4.   Title of applicant. Evidence that the applicant has sufficient
control over the subject property to effectuate the proposed PUD, including a
statement of all legal, beneficial, tenancy and contractual interests held in
or affecting the subject property and including an up-to-date certified
abstract of title or registered property report and other evidence as the City
Attorney may require to show the status of title or control of the subject
property.
         (b)   Present status of premises and adjacent properties.
            1.   Description. The address and legal description of the subject
property. A survey is required;
            2.   Zoning. The existing zoning classification and present use of
the subject property and all lands within 350 feet of the subject property; and
            3.   Map. A single reproducible map or aerial photograph at a scale
of not less than one inch equals 100 feet, depicting the existing development
of the subject property and all land within 100 feet thereof and showing the
precise location of existing streets, property lines, utilities, easements and
wetlands.
         (c)   Narrative description. A written statement generally describing
the proposed PUD and the market which it is intended to serve, showing its
relationship to the city's Comprehensive Plan and how the proposed PUD is to be
designed, arranged and operated in order to permit the development and use of
neighboring property in accordance with the applicable regulations of the city.
         (d)   Site conditions.
            1.   Where deemed necessary by the city, graphic reproductions of
the existing site conditions at a scale of one inch equals 100 feet or less
shall be submitted and shall contain the following:
               a.   Survey showing lot dimensions and existing easements and
utilities;
               b.   Contours; minimum two-foot intervals;
               c.   Location, type and extent of tree cover;
               d.   Slope analysis;
               e.   Location and extent of waterbodies, wetlands and streams
and floodplains within 300 feet of the subject property;
               f.   Existing drainage patterns;
               g.   Vistas and significant views; and
               h.   Soil conditions as they affect development.
            2.   All of the graphics should be the same scale as the final plan
to allow easy cross reference. The use of overlays is recommended for clear
reference.
         (e)   Concept drawing. Schematic drawing of the proposed development
concept including, but not limited to, the general location of major
circulation elements, public and common open space, residential and other land
uses.
         (f)   Number of units. A statement of the estimated total number of
dwelling and/or other units proposed for the PUD and a tabulation of the
proposed approximate allocations of land use expressed in acres and as a
percent of the total project area, which shall include at least the following:
            1.   Area devoted to residential uses;
            2.   Area devoted to residential use by building or structure or
use type;
            3.   Area devoted to common open space;
            4.   Area devoted to public open space;
            5.   Approximate area devoted to streets;
            6.   Approximate area and potential floor area devoted to
commercial uses; and
            7.   Approximate area and potential floor area devoted to
industrial or office uses.
         (g)   Staged development. When the PUD is to be constructed in stages
during a period of time extending beyond a single construction season, a
schedule for the development of stages or units shall be submitted stating the
approximate beginning and completion date for each stage or unit and the
proportion of the total PUD public or common open space and dwelling units to
be provided or constructed during each stage and the overall chronology of
development to be followed from stage to stage.
         (h)   Common areas. When the proposed PUD includes provisions for
public or common open space or service facilities, a statement describing the
provision that is to be made for the care and maintenance of open space or
service facilities. If it is proposed that open space be owned and/or
maintained by any entity other than a governmental authority, copies of the
proposed articles of incorporation and bylaws of the entity shall be submitted
during the development stage.
         (i)   Covenants. General intent of any restrictive covenants that are
to be recorded with respect to property included in the proposed PUD.
         (j)   Market feasibility. Where deemed necessary, a market feasibility
study including an analysis of the proposal's economic impact on the city.
         (k)   Exclusion of information. The Planning Commission may excuse an
applicant from submitting any specific item of information or document required
in this stage, which it finds to be unnecessary to the consideration of the
specific proposal for PUD approval.
         (l)   Inclusion of information. The Planning Commission may require
the submission of any additional information or documentation which it may find
necessary or appropriate to full consideration of the proposed PUD or any
aspect or stage thereof.
      (3)   Schedule.
         (a)   Developer meets with city staff to discuss the proposed
development.
         (b)   Developer submits the necessary data as required in division (H)
(2) above at least 30 days prior to Planning Commission meeting.
         (c)   A technical staff report shall be prepared on the proposed
development and distributed to the Planning Commission and the applicant prior
to the meeting.
         (d)   The applicant or a representative thereof shall appear before
the Planning Commission in order to answer questions concerning the proposed
development.
         (e)   Planning Commission makes a recommendation to the City Council
on the general concept plan.
         (f)   City Council reviews all recommendations and approves/denies
application(s).
      (4)   Optional submission of development stage plan. In cases of single
stage PUDs or where the applicant wishes to begin the first stage of a multiple
stage PUD immediately, the applicant may, at his or her option, submit
development stage plans for the proposed PUD simultaneously with the submission
of the general concept plan. In that case, the applicant shall comply with all
provisions of the ordinance applicable to submission of the development stage
plan. The Planning Commission and City Council shall consider the plans
simultaneously and shall grant or deny development stage plan approval in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (5)   Effect of concept approval. PUD concept approval only provides
direction for the applicant to proceed to PUD development stage submission. The
concept plan approval does not convey any development rights or privileges to
the applicants.
   (I)   Development stage. Development stage submissions shall depict and
outline the proposed implementation of the PUD general concept stage.
Information from the general concept stage may be included for background and
to provide a basis for the submitted plan.
      (1)   Application. Requests for PUD development stage as provided within
this chapter, shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator on an official
application form. The application shall be accompanied by a fee as provided for
by the City Council resolution. This fee shall not be refunded. The application
shall also be accompanied by ten copies of detailed written and graphic
materials fully explaining the proposed change, development or use and a list
of affected property owners within 350 feet of the subject property obtained
from the current tax rolls provided by the county offices.
      (2)   Submission information. The PUD development stage submission
information shall include:
         (a)   Zoning required. Zoning classification required for development
stage submission and any other public decisions necessary for implementation of
the proposed plan;
         (b)   Site plan/preliminary plat. Drawn to a scale of one inch equals
100 feet or less, containing the following information:
            1.   Project name. Proposed name of the development (which shall
not duplicate nor be similar in pronunciation to the name of any plat
theretofore recorded in the county where the subject property is situated);
            2.   Survey. Property boundary lines and dimensions of the property
and any significant topographical or physical features of the property. An
accurate legal description of the entire area within the PUD;
            3.   Preliminary plat. Preliminary plat, if applicable, shall
comply with all the performance standards of the city subdivision regulations
and this chapter;
            4.   Buildings. The location, size, use and arrangement including
height in stories and feet and total square feet of ground area coverage and
floor area or proposed buildings and existing buildings which will remain, if
any;
            5.   Traffic circulation. Location, dimensions and number of all
driveways, entrances, curb cuts, parking stalls, loading spaces and access
aisles and all other circulation elements including bike and pedestrian; and
the total site coverage of all circulation elements;
            6.   Common areas. Location, designation and total area of all
common open space;
            7.   Public open space. Location, designation and total area
proposed to be conveyed or dedicated for public open space, including parks,
playgrounds, school sites and recreational facilities; and
            8.   Locate existing structures. The location, use and size of
structures and other land uses on adjacent properties within 100 feet of the
property boundaries.
         (c)   Residential tabulation. A tabulation indicating the number of
residential dwelling units by number of bedrooms and expected population/
housing profile;
         (d)   Areas of use. A tabulation indicating the approximate gross
square footage, if any, of commercial and industrial floor space by type of
activity (e.g., drug store, dry cleaning, supermarket);
         (e)   Architectural plans. Preliminary architectural plans indicating
use, floor plan, elevations and exterior wall finishes of proposed buildings
and architectural guidelines for future development phases;
         (f)   Landscape plan. A detailed landscaping plan including the type,
size and quantity of all existing and proposed plantings;
         (g)   Grading and drainage plan. Preliminary grading and drainage plan
illustrating changes to existing topography and natural site vegetation. The
plan should clearly reflect the site treatment and its conformance with the
approved concept plan;
         (h)   Erosion control. A soil erosion control plan clearly
illustrating erosion control measures to be used during construction;
         (i)   Document changes. A statement summarizing all changes which have
been made in any document, plan data or information previously submitted,
together with revised copies of any document, plan or data;
         (j)   Preliminary plat. A preliminary plat conforming to the city
subdivision regulations;
         (k)   Lighting plan. A plan illustrating site lighting along with a
photometric plan;
         (l)   Additional data. Additional information as the Zoning
Administrator, Planning Commission or City Council shall find necessary to a
full consideration of the entire proposed PUD or any stage thereof; and
         (m)   Excuse for submittal. The Zoning Administrator may excuse an
applicant from submitting any specific item of information or document required
in this section which it finds to be unnecessary for the consideration of the
specific proposal for PUD approval.
      (3)   Schedule/review.
         (a)   Meeting. The developer meets with city staff to discuss specific
development plans.
         (b)   Filing of application. The applicant shall file the development
stage application within six months of concept plan review, together with all
supporting data and filing fee, as established by City Council ordinance.
         (c)   Staff review/technical assistance reports. Upon receipt of an
application for a PUD development stage, the Zoning Administrator shall, when
deemed necessary, refer the request to appropriate staff to ensure that
informational requirements are complied with. When all informational
requirements have been complied with, the request shall be considered
officially submitted. Also, when deemed necessary, the Zoning Administrator
shall instruct the appropriate staff persons to prepare technical reports and/
or provide general assistance in preparing a recommendation on the request to
the Planning Commission and City Council.
         (d)   Other agency review. When appropriate, the Zoning Administrator
shall forward the PUD development stage application to other special review
agencies such as the Department of Natural Resources, soil conservation
services, highway departments or other affected agencies.
         (e)   Hearing. The Zoning Administrator, upon verification of a
complete application, shall instruct the City Administrator to set a public
hearing for the next regular meeting of the Planning Commission. The Planning
Commission shall conduct the hearing and make recommendations to the City
Council. Notice of the hearing shall be published in the official newspaper at
least ten days prior to the hearing and written notification of the hearing
shall be mailed at least ten days prior to all owners of land within 350 feet
of the boundary of the property in question.
         (f)   Failure to receive notice. Failure of a property owner to
receive the notice shall not invalidate any proceedings as set forth within
this chapter.
         (g)   Request for additional information. The Planning Commission and
city staff shall have the authority to request additional information from the
applicant concerning operational factors or to retain expert testimony with the
consent and at the expense of the applicant concerning operational factors, the
information to be declared necessary to established performance conditions in
relation to all pertinent sections of this chapter.
         (h)   Appearance. The applicant or a representative thereof shall
appear before the Planning Commission in order to answer questions concerning
the proposed development.
         (i)   Planning Commission review. Within 60 days of receiving a
complete application, unless extended by the city, the Planning Commission
shall review the reports and plans and submit its written report and
recommendations to the Council and applicant. The report shall contain the
findings of the Planning Commission with respect to the conformity of the
development stage plan to the approved general concept plan. Should any changes
be found to exist, the Planning Commission shall comment with respect to the
merit or lack of merit of any departure of the development stage plan from
substantial conformity with the concept plan and with respect to the compliance
of the development stage plan with the provisions of this chapter and all other
applicable federal, state and local codes and ordinances. If the Planning
Commission shall find conformity or any changes merit approval and the Planning
Commission shall further find the development stage plan to be in all other
respects completed and in compliance with this chapter and other applicable
federal, state and local codes and ordinances, it shall recommend denial of
approval. If the Planning Commission fails to act within the time specified
herein, it shall be deemed to have recommended the plan for approval.
         (j)   City Council action. Within 60 days of receipt of a complete
application, unless the review period is extended in accordance with M.S. §
15.99, as it may be amended from time to time, the City Council shall grant
approval, resubmit the plan to the Planning Commission for further
consideration of specified items or deny approval of the plan.
         (k)   PUD agreement. The Zoning Administrator shall instruct the City
Attorney to draw up a PUD agreement which stipulates the specific terms and
conditions approved by the City Council and accepted by the applicant. This
agreement shall be signed by the Mayor of the city, City Administrator and the
applicant within 30 days of City Council approval of the development stage
plan. Where the development stage plan is to be resubmitted or denied approval,
the City Council action shall be by written report setting forth the reasons
for its action. In all cases, a certified copy of the document evidencing City
Council action shall be promptly delivered to the applicant by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (4)   Limitation on development plan approval. Unless a final plan
covering the area designated in the development stage plan as the first stage
of the PUD has been filed within six months from the date the City Council
grants development stage plan approval, or in any case where the applicant
fails to file final plans and to proceed with development in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter and/or an approved development stage plan, the
approval shall expire. Upon application by the applicant, the City Council may
at its discretion extend for not more than six months, the filing deadline for
any final plan when, for good cause shown, the extension is necessary. In any
case where development plan approval expires, the City Council shall forthwith
adopt a resolution repealing the general concept plan approval and the
development stage plan approval for that portion of the PUD that has received
final plan approval and re-establishing the zoning and other ordinance
provisions that would otherwise be applicable.
   (J)   Final plan.
      (1)   Purpose. The final plan is to serve as a complete, thorough and
permanent public record of the PUD and the manner in which it is to be
developed. It shall incorporate all prior approved plans and all approved
modifications thereof resulting from the PUD process. It shall serve in
conjunction with other city ordinances as the land use regulation applicable to
the PUD. The final plan is intended only to add detail to and to put in final
form, the information contained in the general concept plan and the development
stage plan and shall conform to the development stage plan in all respects.
      (2)   Final plan submission information. After review of a general
concept plan for the PUD and approval of a development stage plan for a section
or sections of the proposed PUD, the applicant will submit the following
material for review by the city staff prior to issuance of a building permit:
         (a)   Recording proof. Documents establishing the recording of any
easement or other documents required by the city prior to the sale of any land
or dwelling unit included in the PUD and of the establishment and activation of
any entity that is to be responsible for the management and maintenance of any
public or common open space or service facility;
         (b)   Final plans, structures. Final architectural drawings of all
structures;
         (c)   Final engineering plans. Final engineering plans and
specifications for streets, drainage, utilities and other public improvements,
together with a development contract providing for the installation of the
improvements and financial guarantees for the completion of the improvements;
         (d)   Other plans. Any other plans, agreements or specifications
necessary for the city staff to review the proposed construction. All work
shall be in conformance with the Building Code of the city;
         (e)   Recording of final plan. Within 60 days of its approval, the
applicant, or at its election, the city shall cause the final plan, or portions
thereof as are appropriate, to be recorded with the County Recorder or
Registrar of Titles, at the expense of the applicant. Certified copies of all
relevant recorded documents shall be furnished to the city;
         (f)   Building and other permits. Except as otherwise expressly
provided herein, upon receiving notice from the Zoning Administrator that the
approved final plan and development agreement have been recorded, all
appropriate officials of the city may issue building and other permits to the
applicant for development, construction and other work in the area encompassed
by the approved final plan or intermediate development stage plan provided,
however, that no permit shall be issued unless the appropriate official is
first satisfied that all requirements which are applicable to the permit
sought, have been satisfied; and
         (g)   Limitation on final plan approval. Within one year after the
approval of a final plan for PUD, or the shorter time as may be established by
the approved development schedule, construction shall commence in accordance
with the approved plan. Failure to commence construction within the period
shall, unless an extension has been granted and hereinafter provided,
automatically render void the PUD permit and all approvals of the PUD plan and
the area encompassed within the PUD shall thereafter be subject to those
provisions of the zoning regulations and other zoning provisions, applicable in
the district in which it is located. In that case, the Council shall adopt a
resolution repealing the PUD permit and PUD approvals and re-establishing the
zoning and other provisions that would otherwise be applicable.
      (3)   Schedule.
         (a)   Upon approval of the development stage plan and within the time
established by division (I)(3) above of this section, the applicant shall file
with the Zoning Administrator a final plan consisting of the information and
submissions required by division (J)(2) above of this section for the entire
PUD or for one or more stages. This application will be considered at the next
regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting.
         (b)   The findings and recommendations of the Planning Commission
shall be forwarded to the City Council for consideration. If the Planning
Commission fails to act within the time specified herein, it shall be deemed to
have recommended the plan for approval.
         (c)   Within 60 days of receipt of a complete PUD final plan
application, unless the review period is extended in accordance with M.S. §
15.99, as it may be amended from time to time, and receipt of the findings and
recommendations of the Planning Commission, the City Council shall grant
approval or denial of the request.
         (d)   The applicant shall cause the final plan, or portions thereof as
are appropriate, to be recorded with the County Registrar. The applicant shall
provide the city with a signed copy verifying county recording within 40 days
of the date of approval.
      (4)   Building and other permits. Except as otherwise expressly provided
herein, upon receiving notice from the Zoning Administrator that the approved
final plan has been recorded and upon application of the applicant pursuant to
the applicable ordinances of the city, all appropriate officials of the city
may issue building and other permits to the applicant for development,
construction and other work in the area encompassed by the approved final plan
provided, however, that no permit shall be issued unless the appropriate
official is first satisfied that the requirements of all codes and ordinances
in which are applicable to the permit sought, have been satisfied.
      (5)   Limitation on final plan approval. Within one year after the
approval of a final plan for PUD, or shorter time as may be established by the
approved development schedule, construction shall commence in accordance with
the approved plan. Failure to commence construction within the period shall,
unless an extension has been granted and hereinafter provided, automatically
render void the PUD permit and all approvals of the PUD plan and the area
encompassed within the PUD shall thereafter be subject to those provisions of
the zoning regulations and other ordinances, applicable in the district in
which it is located. In that case, the City Council shall forthwith adopt an
ordinance repealing the PUD permit and all PUD approvals and re-establishing
the zoning and other ordinance provisions that would otherwise be applicable.
The time limit established by this section may, at the discretion of the City
Council, be extended for not more than one year by ordnance or resolution duly
adopted.
      (6)   Inspections during development.
         (a)   Compliance with overall plan. Following final plan approval of a
PUD, or a stage thereof, the Zoning Administrator shall, at least annually
until the completion of development, review all permits issued and construction
undertaken and compare actual development within the approved development
schedule.
         (b)   City Council notification. If the Zoning Administrator finds
that development is not proceeding in accordance with the approved schedule, or
that it fails in any other respect to comply with the PUD plans as finally
approved, he or she shall immediately notify the City Council. Within 30 days
of the notice, the City Council shall either by ordinance revoke the PUD
permit, and the land shall thereafter be governed by the regulations applicable
in the district in which it is located; or shall take steps as it deems
necessary to compel compliance with the final plans as approved; or shall
require the landowner or applicant to seek an amendment of the final plan.
(Prior Code, § 11-10-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES
§ 152.165 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide for the regulation of
nonconforming buildings, structures and uses and to specify those requirements,
circumstances and conditions under which nonconforming buildings, structures
and uses will be operated and maintained. This chapter establishes separate
districts, each of which is an appropriate area for the location of uses which
are permitted in that district. It is necessary and consistent with the
establishment of these districts that nonconforming buildings, structures and
uses not be permitted to continue without restriction. Furthermore, it is the
intent of this subchapter that all nonconforming uses shall be eventually
brought into conformity.
(Prior Code, § 11-15-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.166 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Conditional uses/interim uses/uses by administrative permit. Any
established use or building legally existing prior to the effective date of
this chapter, and which is herein classified as a conditional use, interim use
or use by administrative permit may be continued in like fashion and activity
and shall automatically be considered as having received the applicable
approval. Any change to a use, including, but not limited to, building and/or
site alteration, shall however, require a new permit be processed according to
this chapter.
   (B)   Moving nonconforming buildings. Subject to §
152.214 of this chapter, no nonconforming building, structure or use shall be
moved to another lot or to any other part of the parcel of land upon which the
same was constructed or was conducted prior to the effective date of this
chapter, hereof unless the movement shall bring the nonconformance into
substantially closer compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Subdivision. No parcel of land or portion thereof shall be subdivided
if the action results in buildings and/or uses becoming nonconforming.
(Prior Code, § 11-15-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.167 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Effective date. Except as provided in §
152.166(B) of this subchapter, the legal use of buildings or land existing on
the effective date of this chapter, which do not conform to the provisions of
this chapter may be continued at the same size and in the same manner of
operation; provided, however, that no nonconforming use shall be enlarged or
increased, nor shall any nonconforming use be expanded to occupy a greater area
of land than that occupied by that use at the time of the adoption of this
chapter, nor shall any nonconforming use be moved to any other part of the
parcel of land upon which the same was conducted at the time of the adoption of
this chapter.
   (B)   Changes to nonconforming uses.
      (1)   When a legal, nonconforming use of any structure or parcel of land
in any district has been changed to a conforming use, it shall not thereafter
be changed to any nonconforming use.
      (2)   A legal, nonconforming use of a structure or parcel of land may be
changed to lessen the nonconformity of use. Once a nonconforming structure or
parcel of land has been changed, it shall not thereafter be so altered to
increase the nonconformity.
      (3)   In cases of nonconformities not addressed by §
152.168(C) or (D) of this subchapter, legal, nonconforming single-family and
two-family units may be improved to maintain the livability of the dwelling,
provided the structure is not expanded.
   (C)   Discontinuance. In the event a nonconforming use of any building or
premises is discontinued for a period of one year, the use of the same shall
thereafter conform to the regulations of the district in which it is located.
If a nonconforming use is interrupted or prevented from operating because of
governmental action, such as road construction, that period shall not be deemed
as discontinuance of the nonconforming use.
(Prior Code, § 11-15-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.168 NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Proposed structures. Any proposed structure which will, under this
chapter, become nonconforming but for which a building permit has been legally
granted prior to the effective date of this chapter, may be completed in
accordance with the approved plans; provided construction is started within 60
days of the effective date of this chapter, is not abandoned for a period of
more than 120 days, and continues to completion within two years. The structure
shall thereafter be a legally nonconforming structure.
   (B)   Restoration.
      (1)   Any legal, nonconforming building or structure which has been
damaged by fire, explosion, act of God or public enemy, to the extent of more
than 50% of its market value, as determined by the Building Official, may be
repaired or replaced provided a permit is sought within 180 days of the date
the property was damaged.
      (2)   If a building permit is not sought within 180 days of the date the
property was damaged, the building shall be restored in conformity with the
regulations of this chapter.
   (C)   Alterations. Alteration and normal maintenance to a legal
nonconforming building or structure may be made through the building permit
process provided:
      (1)   The alterations do not expand the foundation and/or building
volume, unless specifically allowed by this chapter;
      (2)   The alterations do not increase the building occupancy capacity or
parking demand; and
      (3)   The alteration does not increase the nonconformity of the building
or the use.
   (D)   Expansion of nonconforming buildings or structures.
      (1)   Administrative approvals. The following expansions of legal,
nonconforming single- and two-family residential buildings may be approved
through the administrative permit process by the Zoning Administrator subject
to the provisions of §§
152.115 through
152.118 of this chapter. The Zoning Administrator shall make a determination
that the building expansion will comply with the intent and purpose of this
section and this chapter.
         (a)   Expansion of principal buildings found to be nonconforming only
by reason of height and yard setback may be allowed provided the expansion
complies with the performance standards of this chapter.
         (b)   Expansion of nonconforming detached accessory structures shall
not be allowed.
      (2)   Conditional use permit. Legal, nonconforming commercial,
industrial, public, semi-public and multiple-family residential principal
structures may be expanded on the same lot by conditional use permit provided:
         (a)   The expansion will not increase the nonconformity of the
building or site;
         (b)   The new building expansion will conform with all the applicable
performance standards of this chapter, a conditional use permit shall not be
issued under this section for a deviation from other requirements of this
chapter unless variances are also approved; and
         (c)   The request for conditional use permit shall be evaluated based
on standards and criteria set forth in §§
152.070 through
152.074 of this chapter.
      (3)   Variance. Any situation not addressed in with regards to the
expansion of a nonconforming building or structure shall require a variance as
described in §§
152.100 through
152.103 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-15-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.169 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   Vacant lots. Legal, nonconforming, vacant lots of record may be
developed for single-family detached dwellings upon approval of an
administrative permit, provided that:
      (1)   Legally established. The lot in question was legally established in
accordance with city code requirements existing at the time of its creation and
is a separate, distinct tax parcel;
      (2)   Proper zoning. The lot is properly zoned for single-family
residential land uses;
      (3)   Minimum lot size. A lot of record as of the effective date of this
chapter, having direct access to municipal sewer and water shall be considered
buildable provided measurements for lot area and/or width meet minimum
requirements or are within 70% of the requirement of the district;
      (4)   Frontage. The lot in question has frontage on and will directly
access an improved public street; and
      (5)   Setback and yard requirements. The setback and yard requirements of
the base zoning district can be achieved while simultaneously resulting in
development which complies with the character and general design of the
immediate area and the objectives of the city's Comprehensive Plan and this
chapter.
   (B)   Developed lots. An existing conforming use on a lot of substandard
size and/or width may be expanded or enlarged if the expansion or enlargement
meets all other provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-15-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 152.180 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish general development
performance standards. These standards are intended and designed to assure
compatibility of uses; to prevent urban blight, deterioration and decay; and to
enhance the health, safety and general welfare of the residents of the
community.
(Prior Code, § 11-16-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.181 DWELLING UNIT RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Except as may be expressly allowed by this chapter, no garage, tent,
accessory building or motor home shall at any time be used as living quarters,
temporarily or permanently. Tents, playhouses or similar structures may be used
for play or recreational purposes.
   (B)   Basements and cellars may be used as living quarters or rooms as a
portion of the principal residential dwelling provided it meets the State
Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 11-16-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.182 PLATTED AND UNPLATTED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any person desiring to improve property shall submit to the Building
Official a certificate of survey of the premises and information on the
location and dimensions of existing and proposed buildings, location of
easements crossing the property, encroachments and any other information which
may be necessary to ensure conformance to city ordinances.
   (B)   All buildings/structures shall be placed so that they will not
obstruct future public streets which may be constructed in conformity with
existing streets and according to the system and standards employed by the
city.
   (C)   Except in the case of a PUD District established by §§
152.150 through
152.153 of this chapter or as specifically allowed and stated in a respective
zoning district, not more than one principal building shall be located on a
lot. The words PRINCIPAL BUILDING shall be given their common, ordinary meaning
as defined in §
152.021 of this chapter. In case of doubt or on any questions or
interpretation, the decision of the Zoning Administrator shall be final,
subject to the right to appeal to the Board of Adjustment and Appeals.
   (D)   On a through lot, both street lines shall be front lot lines for
applying the yard setback regulations of this chapter except in the case of a
buffer yard fence or accessory building. In addition, no home on a through lot
or corner lot in any residential zone shall be allowed direct access to any
major collector or arterial street designated as that by the city's
Transportation Plan, except as may be permitted by the city.
   (E)   In the case of properties which abut street easements, applicable
setbacks shall be measured from the easement line and shall be related to
roadway classification as identified in the City Transportation Plan and
subdivision regulations.
   (F)   Outlots are deemed unbuildable and no building permit shall be issued
for those properties, except in the case of public park facilities and
essential services.
   (G)   Except as may be allowed by conditional use permit and property
subdivision, each lot shall have frontage and access directly onto an abutting,
improved and city accepted public street.
(Prior Code, § 11-16-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.183 EROSION AND DRAINAGE.
   (A)   State Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) requirements. Every applicant
for a building permit, subdivision approval or a grading permit to allow land
disturbing activities shall adhere to erosion control measure standards and
specifications contained in the MPCA publication Protecting Water Quality in
Urban Areas, as may be amended, or as approved by the City Engineer and
applicable city's stormwater management requirements. All applications shall
comply with the State Pollution Control Agency's National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) Phase II requirements.
   (B)   Prohibited development. No land shall be developed and no use shall be
permitted that results in water runoff causing flooding, erosion or deposit of
sediment on adjacent properties. The runoff shall be properly channeled into a
storm drain, watercourse, ponding area or other public facilities subject to
the review and approval of the City Engineer.
   (C)   Stormwater management. All residential, commercial, industrial and
institutional developments shall satisfy the provisions of the subdivision
regulations in regard to stormwater management.
   (D)   City Engineer approval. In the case of all single-family lots,
multiple-family lots, business, industrial and institutional developments, the
drainage and erosion control plans shall be subject to the City Engineer's
written approval. No modification in grade and drainage flow through fill,
cuts, erection of retaining walls or other actions shall be permitted until the
plans have been reviewed and received written approval from the City Engineer.
   (E)   Approval of erosion control measures. Proposed erosion control
measures may be approved by the City Engineer as part of grading plan review.
Erosion control may be specified by the City Engineer as part of a site survey
for individual building permits. Erosion control measures may also be specified
by the City Engineer as needed and deemed appropriate during the construction
and post-construction periods separate from the above.
   (F)   Storm sewer inlets. All storm sewer inlets which are functioning
during construction shall be protected so that sediment laden water does not
enter the conveyance system without first being filtered or otherwise treated
to remove sediment.
   (G)   Stormwater channels. All on-site stormwater conveyance channels shall
be designed and constructed to withstand the design volume of stormwater with
appropriate stabilization to prevent scour and erosion. Erosion controls shall
be provided at the outlets of all storm sewer pipes.
   (H)   Sediment control practices. All temporary and permanent erosion and
sediment control practices shall be maintained and repaired whenever necessary
to assure the continued performance of their intended function.
   (I)   Tracking. Each site shall have graveled roads, access drives and
parking areas of sufficient width and length to prevent sediment from being
tracked onto public or private roadways. Any sediment reaching a public or
private road shall be removed by street cleaning (not flushing) before the end
of each workday.
   (J)   Seeding. All disturbed ground left inactive for seven or more days
shall be stabilized by seeding or sodding or by mulching or covering or other
equivalent control measure.
   (K)   Sites over one acre. For sites with more than one acre disturbed at
one time, or if a channel originates in the disturbed area, one or more
temporary or permanent sedimentation basins shall be constructed. Each
sedimentation basin shall have a surface area of at least 1% of the area
draining to the basin and at least three feet of depth and constructed in
accordance with accepted design specifications. Sediment shall be removed to
maintain a depth of three feet. The basin discharge rate shall also be
sufficiently low as to not cause erosion along the discharge channel or the
receiving water.
   (L)   Sites under one acre. For sites with less than one acre disturbed at
one time, silt fences, straw bales or equivalent control measures shall be
placed along all side slope and down slope sides of the site. If a channel or
area of concentrated runoff passes through the site, silt fences shall be
placed along the channel edges to reduce sediment reaching the channel. The use
of silt fences, straw bales or equivalent control measures must include a
maintenance and inspection schedule.
   (M)   Removal. All temporary erosion control devices including silt fence,
gravel, hay bales or other measures shall be removed from the construction site
and properly disposed of or recycled. This removal and disposal shall occur
within 30 days of the establishment of permanent vegetative cover on the
disturbed area.
   (N)   Site dewatering. Water pumped from the site shall be treated by
temporary sedimentation basins, grit chambers, sand filters, up flow chambers,
hydro-cyclones, swirl concentrators or other appropriate controls as
appropriate. Water may not be discharged in a manner that causes erosion or
flooding of the site or receiving channels of a wetland. All dewatering shall
be in accordance with all applicable county, state and federal rules and
regulations.
   (O)   Waste and material disposal. All waste and unused building materials
(including garbage, debris, cleaning wastes, wastewater, toxic materials or
hazardous materials) shall be properly disposed of off-site and not allowed to
be carried by runoff into a receiving channel or storm sewer system.
   (P)   Foundation, garage floor. Unless approved by the City Engineer, the
top of the foundation and garage floor of all structures shall be at least 18
inches above the grade of the crown of the street. Elevations shall be in
accordance with the approved grading plan for the development.
   (Q)   Stop work order. The city's Building Official or City Engineer may
issue stop work orders for any violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-16-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.184 WETLANDS.
   (A)   Delineation report. Every applicant for a grading permit to allow
wetland disturbing activities shall submit a wetland delineation report to the
City Engineer. No grading permit to allow wetland disturbing activities shall
be issued until approval of the wetland replacement plan application or a
certificate of exemption has been obtained in strict conformance with the
provisions of this chapter and the State Wetland Conservation Act being Minn.
Rules 8420.0100 et seq. This chapter applies to all land, public or private,
located within the city.
   (B)   Impacts. Utilization and development impacts to wetlands shall be
consistent with the stormwater management policies of the city.
   (C)   Impacts to wetland.
      (1)   Concentrated runoff discharge into wetlands shall be consistent
with the stormwater management policies of the city. All stormwater shall be
treated for water quality improvements prior to discharge to a wetland.
      (2)   A protective buffer strip of natural vegetation of 30 feet in width
from the delineated edge at the time of development shall surround all wetlands
within areas developed or redeveloped after the effective date of this chapter.
Grading or construction within this buffer is prohibited.
      (3)   A building setback of 30 feet shall exist from the delineated edge
of all wetlands at the time of development within areas developed or
redeveloped after the effective date of this chapter.
      (4)   Wetlands shall not be drained or filled, wholly or partially,
unless replaced by restoring or creating wetland areas of at least equal public
value in accordance with the State Wetland Conservation Act being Minn. Rules
8420.0100 et seq. Replacement shall be guided by the following principles in
descending order of priority:
         (a)   Avoiding the direct or indirect impact of the activity that may
destroy or diminish the wetland;
         (b)   Minimizing the impact by limiting the degree or magnitude of the
wetland activity and its implementation;
         (c)   Rectifying the impact by repairing, rehabilitating or restoring
the affected wetland environment;
         (d)   Reducing or eliminating the impact over time by preservation and
maintenance operations during the life of the activity; and
         (e)   Compensating for the impact by replacing or providing approved
substitute wetland resources or environments.
(Prior Code, § 11-16-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.185 PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Encroachment. There shall be no encroachments in the public right-of-
way with the exception of the following:
      (1)   USPS mail boxes;
      (2)   Essential services;
      (3)   Signs allowed under §§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter;
      (4)   Radio receivers and transmitters as an accessory use to essential
services; and
      (5)   Personal wireless communication antennas located on existing
lattice electrical transmission towers, provided that the use and equipment
comply with all applicable requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Liability. As a condition of approval for the erection or placement of
a structure in the public right-of-way or on city property, the applicant shall
be required to demonstrate a significant need for the structure placement and
that it will not interfere or conflict with the public use and/or purpose of
the right-of-way. Additionally, the applicant shall sign a contract with the
city that holds harmless the city for any potential liability and expense if it
needs to be moved or removed by the city and must demonstrate to the Zoning
Administrator proof of adequate liability insurance.
   (C)   Compliance required. The erection and/or placement of any structure in
the public right-of-way on city property shall be done in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-16-6) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.186 TRAFFIC SIGHT VISIBILITY TRIANGLE.
   Except for a governmental agency for the purpose of screening, no wall,
fence, structure, tree, shrub, vegetation or other obstruction shall be placed
on or extend into a yard or right-of-way area so as to pose a danger to traffic
by obscuring the view of approaching vehicular traffic or pedestrians from any
street or driveway. Visibility from any street or driveway shall be
unobstructed above a height of three feet, measured from where both street or
driveway centerlines intersect within the triangle described as beginning at
the intersection of the projected curb line of two intersecting streets or
drives, thence 30 feet along one curb line, thence diagonally to a point 30
feet from the point of beginning along the other curb line. The exception to
this requirement shall be where there is a tree, planting or landscape
arrangement within the area that will not create a total obstruction wider than
three feet. These requirements shall not apply to conditions of this chapter
that legally exist prior to the effective date of this chapter, unless the City
Council determines that the conditions constitute a safety hazard.
(Prior Code, § 11-16-7) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.187 EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to encourage the use of
lighting systems that will reduce light pollution and promote energy
conservation while increasing night-time safety, utility, security and
productivity.
   (B)   Exemptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the
following:
      (1)   Temporary outdoor lighting used during customary holiday seasons;
      (2)   Temporary outdoor lighting used for civic celebrations and
promotions;
      (3)   Lighting required by a government agency for the safe operation of
airplanes or security lighting required on government buildings or structures;
      (4)   Emergency lighting by police, fire and rescue authorities;
      (5)   Architectural/historical light fixtures and street lights that
feature globes that are not shielded. In no case shall the light affect
adjacent property in excess of the maximum intensity defined in division (C)(1)
below of this chapter; and
      (6)   All outdoor lighting fixtures existing and legally installed prior
to the effective date of this chapter are exempt from regulations of this
section but shall comply with the following standards:
         (a)   Glare. Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking
area, sign or other structure, shall be arranged as to deflect light away from
any adjoining residential zone or from the public streets. Direct or sky-
reflected glare, where from flood lights or from high temperature processes
such as combustion or welding shall not be directed into any adjoining
property. The source of lights shall be hooded or controlled in some manner so
as not to light adjacent property. Bare incandescent light bulbs shall not be
permitted in view of adjacent property or public right-of-way. Any light or
combination of lights which cast light on a public street shall not exceed one
foot candle (meter reading) as measured from the centerline of the street. Any
light or combination of lights which cast light on residential property shall
not exceed four-tenths foot candles (meter reading) as measured from the
property.
         (b)   Replacement. Whenever a light fixture that was existing on the
effective date of this chapter is replaced by a new outdoor light fixture, the
provisions of this section shall be complied with.
   (C)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Limitation. No light source or combination thereof which cast light
on a public street shall exceed one foot candle meter reading as measured from
the centerline of the street nor shall any light source or combination thereof
which cast light on adjacent property exceed four-tenths foot candles as
measured at the property line.
      (2)   Measurement. The foot candle level of a light source shall be taken
after dark with the light meter held six inches above the ground with the meter
facing the light source. A reading shall be taken with the light source on,
then with the light source off. The difference between the two readings will be
identified as the light intensity.
      (3)   Residential district standards. In all residential districts, any
lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking area, structure or area shall
be arranged as to deflect light away from any adjoining residential property or
from any public right-of-way in accordance with the following provisions.
         (a)   The light source shall be hooded or controlled so as not to
light adjacent property in excess of the maximum intensity defined in division
(C)(1) above of this chapter.
         (b)   Bare light bulbs shall not be permitted in view of adjacent
property or public right-of-way, unless part of a permanent fixture.
      (4)   Commercial, industrial and institutional districts. Any lighting
used to illuminate an off-street parking area, structure or area shall be
arranged so as to deflect light away from any adjoining property or from any
public right-of-way in accordance with the following provisions.
         (a)   Shielding. The light fixture shall contain a cutoff which
directs the light at an angle of 90 degrees or less. Exposure of the light
source shall not be permitted in view of adjacent property or public right-of-
way.
         (b)   Lighting of entire facades or architectural features. Lighting
of entire facades or architectural features of a building shall be approved by
the City Council. Building facades or architectural features may not be
internally illuminated and shall only utilize illuminating devices mounted on
top and facing downward onto the structure. In no case shall the light affect
adjacent property in excess of the maximum intensity defined in division (C)(1)
above of this chapter.
         (c)   Intensity. Light sources shall not be permitted so as to light
adjacent property in excess of the maximum intensity defined in division (C)(1)
above of this chapter.
      (5)   Height. The maximum height above the ground grade permitted for
poles, fixtures and light sources mounted on a pole is 25 feet. A light source
mounted on a building shall not exceed the height of the building. Exceptions
to the height limits for light sources may be approved by conditional use
permit provided that all other requirements of this section are complied with.
      (6)   Location.
         (a)   All non-public outdoor light fixtures shall be set back a
minimum of ten feet from a street right-of-way and five feet from an interior
side or rear lot line.
         (b)   No light sources shall be located on the roof unless the light
enhances the architectural features of the building and is approved by the City
Council.
      (7)   Glare. Direct or reflected glare from high temperature processes
such as combustion or welding shall not be visible from any adjoining property.
      (8)   Outdoor recreation. Outdoor recreational uses such as, but not
limited to, baseball fields, football fields and tennis courts have special
requirements for night-time lighting. Due to these unique circumstances, a
conditional use permit shall be required for outdoor lighting systems for those
uses that do not comply with regulations of this section, provided that:
         (a)   No public or private outdoor recreation facility shall be
illuminated after 11:00 p.m., except for required security lighting;
         (b)   Off-street parking areas for outdoor recreation uses that are
illuminated shall meet the requirements for commercial, industrial and
institutional applications as found in division (C)(4) above of this chapter;
and
         (c)   The provisions of §
152.072 of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met.
      (9)   Outdoor signs.
         (a)   Outdoor signs constructed of translucent materials and wholly
illuminated from within do not require shielding.
         (b)   All shall comply with all other provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-16-8) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.188 SMOKE.
   The emission of smoke by any use shall be in compliance with and regulated
by the State Pollution Control Standards, Minn. Regulations APC 7017 and
similar regulations as may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 11-16-9) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.189 DUST AND OTHER PARTICULATE MATTER.
   The emission of dust, fly ash or other particulate matter by any use shall
be in compliance with and regulated by the State Pollution Control Standards,
Minn. Regulations APC 7011 and similar regulations as may be amended from time
to time.
(Prior Code, § 11-16-10) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.190 AIR POLLUTION.
   The emission of air pollution, including potentially hazardous emissions, by
any use shall be in compliance with and regulated by M.S. § 116, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 11-16-11) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.191 NOISE.
   Noises emanating from any use shall be in compliance with and regulated by
the State Pollution Control Standards, Minn. Regulations NCP 7030. In no case
shall noise emanations constitute a nuisance as defined and regulated by this
code.
(Prior Code, § 11-16-12) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.192 BULK STORAGE (LIQUID).
   All uses associated with the bulk storage of all gasoline, liquid
fertilizer, chemical, flammable and similar liquids shall comply with county,
state and federal agency requirements and have documents from those respective
agencies stating the use is in compliance.
(Prior Code, § 11-16-13) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.193 WASTE, REFUSE AND RECYCLABLE MATERIAL.
   (A)   Waste disposal. All waste generated shall be disposed in a manner
consistent with all State Pollution Control Agency rules.
   (B)   Waste not stored in containers. Any accumulation of waste generated on
any premises not stored in containers which comply with applicable requirements
of this chapter and State Pollution Control Agency rules, or any accumulation
of mixed municipal solid waste generated on any premises which has remained
thereon for more than one week, or any accumulation of infectious, nuclear,
pathological or hazardous waste which is not stored and disposed in a manner
consistent with State Pollution Control Agency rules is a nuisance and shall be
abated and the cost of abatement may be assessed against the property where the
nuisance is found.
   (C)   Off-site waste. The accumulation, storage, processing and disposal of
waste on any premises, which is not generated on that premises, is prohibited,
except as specifically provided in this chapter.
   (D)   Abandoned, unlicensed or inoperable vehicles. Passenger automobiles
and trucks not currently licensed by the state, or which are because of
mechanical deficiency incapable of movement under their own power, parked or
stored outside for a period in excess of 30 days and all materials stored
outside in violation of city code provisions are considered refuse or junk and
shall be abated in the manner provided for by §
152.043 of this chapter.
   (E)   Location and screening.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, duplexes and all other residential
structures with four or less residential units. Garbage cans and recycling bins
shall be kept in rear or side yards and shall be screened from neighboring
properties and the public right-of-way or shall be kept indoors.
      (2)   Other uses. All refuse, recyclable materials and necessary handling
equipment including, but not limited to, garbage cans, recycling bins and
dumpsters shall be stored within the principal structure, within an accessory
building or totally screened from eye-level view from all neighboring uses and
the public right-of-way.
      (3)   Exterior storage. Exterior storage shall require the following.
         (a)   Exterior wall or fence treatment shall be similar and/or
complement the principal building.
         (b)   The enclosed trash and/or recycling receptacle area shall be
located in the rear or side yard and shall observe all applicable setback
requirements and easements.
         (c)   The trash and/or recycling enclosure shall be in an accessible
location for pick up hauling vehicles.
         (d)   The trash and/or recycling receptacles shall be fully screened
from view of adjacent properties and the public right-of-way by a fence or wall
of at least six feet in height and a minimum opaqueness of 80%.
         (e)   All dumpsters, recycling bins, handling equipment and enclosures
shall be kept in a good state of repair with tight-fitting lids to prevent
spilling and spread of debris. The construction of trash and recycling
enclosures shall be per standards established by the City Building Official and
all design and construction of the enclosures shall be subject to the Building
Official's approval.
(Prior Code, § 11-16-14) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.194 OUTDOOR STORAGE.
   (A)   District requirements. Except as herein provided or as specifically
allowed within the specific zoning districts established by §
152.445 through
152.448 of this chapter, all materials and equipment shall be stored within a
building.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Clothes line pole and wires and play equipment;
      (2)   Recreational vehicles and utility vehicle and trailer storage
provided the following standards are met.
         (a)   No more than two recreational vehicles or trailers may be parked
or stored outdoors.
         (b)   The vehicles are registered to or rented by a resident of the
dwelling on the site.
            1.   The vehicles have affixed thereto current registration or
license plates as required by law.
            2.   The vehicles are stored no closer than five feet from side and
rear lot lines.
            3.   The vehicles shall be stored on asphalt or concrete surface.
         (c)   The recreational vehicle or equipment shall be set back a
minimum of 15 feet from the edge of any public street.
         (d)   No vehicle shall be parked in a manner that blocks a city or
county trail or sidewalk.
         (e)   The vehicles are not connected to any electrical, water or
sewage disposal system on the residential property where the same is so parked
or stored.
         (f)   The vehicle shall not be stored or parked on a public street for
a period longer than 24 hours.
         (g)   Unless mounted on a trailer, or equipped with wheels, ice
fishing houses or other structures used or designed to be used as temporary
shelters shall be subject to the area, setback and other provisions of this
chapter.
      (3)   Construction and landscaping material currently being used on the
premises; and
      (4)   Off-street parking of motor vehicles as specified in the respective
zoning districts.
   (C)   Vehicle/equipment sales.
      (1)   Residential districts.
         (a)   Personal vehicles, recreational vehicles, farm machinery and
equipment and similar merchandise offered for sale in residential zoning
districts shall comply with the following.
            1.   The merchandise sold in residential areas shall be the
personal property of the occupant.
            2.   Merchandise items for sale shall not be parked in any portion
of the public right-of-way, public boulevard or required front yard except a
designated, improved driveway.
         (b)   Garage or rummage sales conducted in residential zones shall
comply with the following.
            1.   Merchandise offered for sale shall be the personal property of
the property owner.
            2.   Sales shall be limited to a maximum of four consecutive days
and occurring no more than two times within one calendar year per property.
            3.   Signs shall be governed by §§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter.
      (2)   Nonresidential districts. Motor, commercial and recreational
vehicles shall not be displayed "for sale" or sold within nonresidential
districts unless as part of an approved licensed sales dealership or for short-
term parking (12 hours or less) if the vehicle is owned by an employee of the
business where the vehicle is parked with the consent of the business owner.
(Prior Code, § 11-16-15) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
GENERAL YARD, LOT AREA AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
§ 152.205 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter identifies yard, lot area, building size, building type and
height requirements in each zoning district.
(Prior Code, § 11-17-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.206 HIGH WATER ELEVATION.
   No structure, except piers, docks and retaining walls shall be placed at an
elevation so that the lowest floor, including basement floor, is less than
three feet above the highest known water level, or less than one foot above the
100-year regulatory flood protection elevation, if determined, of any adjacent
lake, pond, river, watercourse or wetland. If sufficient data on known high-
water levels is not available, the elevation of the line of permanent aquatic
vegetation shall be used as the estimated high-water elevation. When fill is
required to meet this elevation, the fill shall be allowed to stabilize and
construction shall not begin until the property has been inspected by the
Building Official. If requested by the Building Official, the ground water
table elevation shall be determined by a licensed soils engineer using soil
borings, piezometers or the observation of mottled soils.
(Prior Code, § 11-17-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.207 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   (A)   No structure shall exceed the maximum height requirement of the
applicable zoning district provisions except by conditional use permit and
provided that:
      (1)   The site is capable of accommodating the increased intensity of
use;
      (2)   The increased intensity of use does not cause an increase in
traffic volumes beyond the capacity of the surrounding streets;
      (3)   Public utilities and services are adequate;
      (4)   For each additional story over three stories or for each additional
ten feet above 35 feet, front and side yard setback requirements shall be
increased by 5%; and
      (5)   The performance standards and criteria of §§
152.070 through
152.074 of this chapter are considered and satisfied.
   (B)   The building height limits established herein for districts shall not
apply to the following:
      (1)   Agricultural buildings on farm properties;
      (2)   Antenna support structures as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter;
      (3)   Belfries;
      (4)   Chimneys or flues;
      (5)   Church spires;
      (6)   Cooling towers;
      (7)   Cupolas and domes which do not contain usable space;
      (8)   Elevator penthouses;
      (9)   Flagpoles;
      (10)   Monuments;
      (11)   Necessary mechanical and electrical appurtenances;
      (12)   Parapet walls extending not more than three feet above the
limiting height of the building;
      (13)   Poles, towers and other structures for essential services; and
      (14)   Wind energy conversion system towers.
(Prior Code, § 11-17-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.208 BUILDING TYPE AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   Architectural and aesthetic compatibility. Buildings in all zoning
districts shall maintain a high standard of architectural and aesthetic
compatibility with surrounding properties to ensure that they will not
adversely impact the community's public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   Exterior building finishes.
         (a)   Residential uses. The primary exterior building facade finishes
for residential uses shall consist of materials comparable in grade to the
following:
            1.   Brick;
            2.   Concrete composite board;
            3.   Stone (natural or artificial);
            4.   Integral colored split face (rock face) concrete block;
            5.   Wood, natural or composite, provided the surfaces are finished
for exterior use or wood of proven exterior durability is used, such as cedar,
redwood or cypress;
            6.   Stucco (natural or artificial)/EIFS (exterior insulated finish
system); and
            7.   Vinyl, steel, aluminum.
         (b)   Commercial. The primary exterior building facade finishes for
commercial uses shall consist of materials comparable in grade to the
following:
            1.   Brick;
            2.   Concrete composite board;
            3.   Stone (natural or artificial);
            4.   Cast in place concrete or precast concrete panels;
            5.   Integral colored split face (rock face) concrete block;
            6.   Wood, natural or composite, provided the surfaces are finished
for exterior use or wood of proven exterior durability is used, such as cedar,
redwood or cypress;
            7.   Glass curtain wall panels;
            8.   Stucco (natural or artificial)/EIFS (exterior insulated finish
system); and
            9.   Steel or aluminum siding.
      (c)   Commercial (Historic Downtown Overlay District). Exterior building
facade finishes for commercial buildings within the Historic District shall be
compatible with the city downtown design standards as described in section
shall be consistent with the standards illustrated in §§
152.720 through
152.730 of this chapter.
      (d)   Industrial. The primary exterior building facade finishes for
industrial and institutional uses shall consist of materials comparable in
grade to the following:
            1.   Brick;
            2.   Concrete composite board;
            3.   Stone (natural or artificial);
            4.   Cast in place concrete or precast concrete panels;
            5.   Integral colored split face (rock face) concrete block;
            6.   Wood, natural or composite, provided the surfaces are finished
for exterior use or wood of proven exterior durability is used, such as cedar,
redwood or cypress;
            7.   Glass curtain wall panels;
            8.   Stucco (natural or artificial)/EIFS (exterior insulated finish
system); and
            9.   Steel or aluminum siding.
         (e)   Building foundations. Building foundations not exceeding two
feet and other portions of a building's facade need not comply with the
requirements for the primary facade treatment or materials.
   (B)   Industrial districts.
      (1)   In all industrial zoned districts, all buildings constructed of
curtain wall panels of finished steel, aluminum or fiberglass shall be required
to be faced with brick, wood, stone, architectural concrete cast in place or
precast concrete panels on wall surfaces abutting public rights-of-way, a
residential zoning district or public areas.
      (2)   The required wall surface treatment may allow a maximum of 50% of
the metal or fiberglass wall to remain exposed if it is coordinated into the
architectural design and is similar to the building frontage.
   (C)   Exceptions. Exceptions to the provisions of this section may be
granted as a conditional use permit by the City Council, provided that:
      (1)   The proposed building maintains the quality intended by this
chapter;
      (2)   The proposed building is compatible and in harmony with other
structures within the district; and
      (3)   The provisions of §§
152.070 through
152.074 of this chapter are considered and satisfied.
(Prior Code, § 11-17-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.209 YARDS.
   (A)   General provisions. Except as provided below, no lot, yard or other
open space shall be reduced in area or dimension so as to make the lot, yard or
open space less than the minimum required by this chapter, and if the existing
yard or other open space is less than the minimum required, it shall not be
further reduced. No required open space provided around any building or
structure shall be included as part of any open space required for another
structure.
   (B)   Exceptions. The following shall not be considered as encroachments on
yard setback requirements:
      (1)   Cantilevers up to ten feet in width, chimneys, flues, leaders,
sills, pilasters, lintels, ornamental features, cornices, eaves, gutters and
the like, provided they do not project more than two feet into a yard;
      (2)   Terraces, steps, decks, uncovered porches, stoops or similar
structures limited to not more than a height of three feet above grade may
extend to within five feet of side yard and ten feet of rear yard lot lines,
but not more than five feet into a required front yard or side yard adjacent to
a public right-of-way;
      (3)   Recreational and laundry drying equipment, arbors and trellises,
gazebos and air-conditioning or heating equipment shall be allowed only in a
rear or side yard, provided they are at a distance of five feet from any lot
line. No encroachment shall be permitted in existing or required drainage and/
or utility easements;
      (4)   In residential districts, a one story entrance for a detached
single-family or two-family dwelling may extend into the front yard setback not
more than five feet and shall not exceed 50 square feet in size; and
      (5)   No encroachment shall be permitted in existing or required drainage
and utility easements.
   (C)   Front yard setback exceptions. In the case of lots platted prior to
the effective date of this chapter, the principal building setback requirements
for front and side yards adjacent to a public right-of-way, as established by
the respective zoning districts, may be reduced upon the approval of an
administrative permit, to a distance equaling the average setback of principal
buildings within the block frontage in which the lot is located. In no case
shall this distance be less than 15 feet, nor shall a principal structure be
placed more than seven feet beyond the setback of any principal structure on a
directly abutting lot.
   (D)   Triangular lots. In the case of triangular lots, where the rear lot
line is a single vertex, the rear yard setback points of reference shall be
determined by measuring the length of the setback distance from the vertex
along the side lot lines. The rear setback line shall be determined by
traversing the lot and connecting these points of reference.
(Prior Code, § 11-17-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.210 MINIMUM FLOOR AREA PER DWELLING UNIT.
   (A)   Single-family dwelling units. Except as otherwise specified in the
zoning district provisions, or except as allowed by conditional use permit
based upon justifiable cause, single-family homes as classified below shall
have the following minimum floor areas per unit.
 
1 and 2 bedroom    960 square feet above grade
3 bedrooms or more 1,040 square feet above grade
 
   (B)   Multiple-dwelling units. Except as otherwise specified in zoning
district provisions, or except as allowed by conditional use permit based upon
justifiable cause, living units classified as multiple-dwelling (excepting
elderly housing) shall have the following minimum floor areas per unit.
 
Efficiency units          500 square feet
1 bedroom units           700 square feet
2 bedroom units           800 square feet
More than 2 bedroom units An additional 80 square feet for each additional
                          bedroom
 
   (C)   Elderly (senior citizen) housing. Except as otherwise specified in the
zoning district provisions, or except as allowed by conditional use permit
based upon justifiable cause, living units classified as elderly (senior
citizen) housing units shall have the following minimum floor areas per unit.
 
Efficiency units          440 square feet
1 bedroom                 520 square feet
More than 1 bedroom units An additional 80 square feet for each additional
                          bedroom
 
   (D)   Two-family dwelling units, quadraminiums and townhouses. Except as
otherwise specified in the zoning district provisions, or except as allowed by
conditional use permit based upon justifiable cause, two-family, quadraminiums,
manor homes and townhouses, as classified below, shall have the minimum floor
area per unit as follows.
 
                               650 square feet first floor above grade,
Two-family                     plus 100 additional square feet for each
                               bedroom
Quadraminiums, manor homes and 600 square feet first floor above grade,
townhouses                     plus 100 additional square feet for each
                               bedroom
 
(Prior Code, § 11-17-6) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.211 EFFICIENCY APARTMENTS.
   Except for elderly (senior citizen) housing, the number of efficiency
apartments in multiple-family dwellings shall not exceed one unit or 10% of the
total number of dwelling units in the building, whichever is greater. In the
case of elderly (senior citizen) housing, efficiency apartments shall not
exceed 30% of the total number of apartments.
(Prior Code, § 11-17-7) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.212 MINIMUM FLOOR AREA, COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL STRUCTURES.
   Commercial and industrial buildings (principal structure) having less than
1,000 square feet of floor area may only be allowed upon approval of a
conditional use permit.
(Prior Code, § 11-17-8) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.213 SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   All single-family detached homes except in the R-M, Single-Family
Manufactured Home Park District, shall conform to the following requirements.
   (A)   Perimeter foundation. Be constructed upon a continuous perimeter
foundation that meets the requirements of the State Building Code.
   (B)   Dimensional requirements. Not be less than 30 feet in length and not
less than 22 feet in width over that entire minimum length. Width measurements
shall not take into account overhangs and other projections beyond the
principal walls. Dwellings shall also meet the minimum floor area requirements
as set out in this chapter.
   (C)   Roof. Composition, metal, shingled or tiled roof.
   (D)   Building permit.
      (1)   The application for a building permit, in addition to other
information required, shall indicate the height, size, design and the
appearance of all elevations of the proposed building and a description of the
construction materials proposed to be used and the delineation of future deck,
porch and/or garage additions whether or not the construction is intended.
      (2)   The exterior architectural design of a proposed dwelling may not be
so at variance with, nor so similar to, the exterior architectural design of
any structure or structures already constructed or in the course of
construction in the immediate neighborhood, nor so at variance with the
character of the surrounding neighborhood as to adversely affect the public
health, safety or general welfare.
      (3)   The requirements of the State Building Code or the applicable
manufactured housing code shall be met.
   (E)   Three stall garage. For lots of record in the RE and R-1 Districts
established after the effective date of this chapter, all site plans for
single-family homes shall provide for the location of a three-stall garage,
whether or not construction is intended, in conformance with all provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-17-9) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 270, passed 3-15-2007)
§ 152.214 BUILDING RELOCATION.
   (A)   Review process. Before any house or other structure is moved onto a
vacant lot, an administrative permit must be obtained in accordance with §§
152.115 through
152.118 of this chapter. The city shall conduct a site plan review and
determine whether the structure will be compatible with other development in
the area and conform to all city codes and ordinances.
   (B)   Administrative permit exceptions. The following uses do not need an
administrative permit:
      (1)   Accessory structures less than 120 square feet in area; and
      (2)   (a)   Relocations which occur solely within the confines of a
single lot or parcel.
         (b)   The building relocated within the confines of a single lot or
parcel, upon relocation, shall comply with the applicable requirements of this
chapter, the city code and the Uniform Building Code.
   (C)   Submission requirements. In addition to the submission requirements of
§§
152.115 through
152.118 of this chapter, the following information shall be required for a
building relocation administrative permit:
      (1)   Photographs showing all sides of the structure to be moved and a
proposed site plan of the lot on which the structure is to be located;
      (2)   A map and photographs indicating location of surrounding lots and
structures where the building is proposed to be relocated;
      (3)   A map showing the route of travel of the structure to be relocated;
      (4)   State license of the building mover;
      (5)   Insurance information from the building mover; and
      (6)   Dates and time of building moving.
(Prior Code, § 11-17-10) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 365, passed 3-5-2019)
§ 152.215 TEMPORARY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for the erection of
temporary structures (not including model homes/temporary real estate offices
or temporary classroom structures for use by a public or private institution)
needed for emergency/natural disaster purposes or for temporary use during the
construction of a permanent structure.
   (B)   Procedure. The erection of a temporary structure shall require an
administrative permit, as may be issued by the Zoning Administrator, except as
otherwise provided by this chapter in all zoning districts.
   (C)   Special requirements.
      (1)   Site plan required. No administrative permit shall be issued for a
temporary structure unless a site plan pursuant to §§
152.130 through
152.138 of this chapter has also been approved if applicable, or unless a
building permit has been issued for a new structure, addition or remodeling of
an existing structure on the property.
      (2)   Termination of permit. The administrative permit shall terminate
nine months from its date of issuance, or within 30 days after a certificate of
occupancy has been issued by the Building Official for the permanent structure,
whichever occurs first, unless a different time schedule is approved as part of
the permit. If circumstances exist to warrant an extension, the permit may be
extended for an additional 90 days by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   Setback. Temporary structures may be placed in a required building
setback area, provided that no structure may be placed within 30 feet of a
public right-of-way or obstruct the traffic visibility triangle required by §
152.186 of this chapter.
      (4)   State Building Code. All applicable requirements of the State
Building Code shall be met.
      (5)   Utilities. Provisions for utilities servicing the temporary
structures shall be subject to the review and approval of the Building
Official.
      (6)   Security measures. Security measures such as lighting shall be
implemented subject to the review and approval of the Zoning Administrator.
      (7)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall be provided subject to
the provisions of §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter.
      (8)   Signage. Any signage shall conform to the provisions of §§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-17-11) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.216 MODEL HOMES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for the erection of
model homes, which may include temporary real estate offices, in new
subdivisions without adversely affecting the character of surrounding
residential neighborhoods or creating a general nuisance. As model homes
represent a unique temporary commercial use, special consideration shall be
given to the peculiar problems associated with them and special standards must
be applied to ensure reasonable compatibility with their environment.
   (B)   Qualification. To qualify for a building permit for a model home,
which may include a temporary real estate office, the following shall be
required.
      (1)   Upon receipt of final plat approval and recording, two building
permits for model homes per subdivision may be granted. No final certificate of
occupancy shall be issued until the infrastructure improvements including the
first lift of asphalt have been completed and approved by the city.
      (2)   Upon completion of infrastructure improvements including the first
lift of asphalt within the respective final plat subdivision, additional
building permits may be issued for model homes and/or temporary real estate
offices, provided that the number of model homes and/or temporary real estate
offices shall not exceed 5% of the number of lots within the final plat.
   (C)   Procedure. The erection of a model home(s) within all residential
districts, which may include a temporary real estate office(s), shall require
an administrative permit, as may be issued by the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   Special requirements.
      (1)   Model homes and model homes with temporary real estate offices
shall be allowed in all residential zoning districts in which they are located
and shall be utilized solely for selling purposes of lots and/or homes within
the subdivision in which they are located.
      (2)   Temporary parking facilities equal to four paved spaces per model
home dwelling unit or a model home with a temporary real estate office shall be
provided. The overall design, drainage and surfacing of the temporary parking
facility shall be subject to the approval of the Zoning Administrator or City
Engineer.
      (3)   Access from a temporary parking facility shall be directed away
from developed and occupied residential neighborhoods to the greatest extent
possible.
      (4)   No model home or model home with a temporary real estate office
shall incorporate outside lighting which creates a nuisance due to glare or
intensity, as provided for in §
152.187 of this chapter.
      (5)   All signage shall comply with the sign regulations as contained in
§§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter for the zoning district in which the model home and/or
temporary real estate office is located.
      (6)   The administrative permit shall terminate three years from its date
of issuance or when 75% of the development is completed, whichever comes first,
unless extended by the City Council.
      (7)   No residential certificate of occupancy shall be issued for a model
home or model home with a temporary real estate office until the time as the
structure has been fully converted to a residence in compliance with the State
Building Code. Additionally, the conversion shall include, but not be limited
to, parking lot restoration and the removal of signage and lighting.
      (8)   The restoration of all temporary parking areas with appropriate
landscaping shall be completed by the end of the following growing season.
   (E)   Restricted use. Model homes and model homes with temporary real estate
offices shall be used solely for the display and sale of home fixtures and
products and real estate for the subdivision in which they are located unless
approved by the Zoning Administrator through an administrative permit.
(Prior Code, § 11-17-12) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES
§ 152.230 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide performance standards for the
erection, siting and use of accessory buildings, structures and uses that may
be allowed within the various zoning districts to ensure compatibility with the
principal use and with surrounding properties, as well as to protect the
general health, safety and welfare of the community.
(Prior Code, § 11-18-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.231 TIME OF CONSTRUCTION.
   No detached accessory building or structure shall be constructed on any lot
prior to the time of construction of the principal building to which it is
accessory.
(Prior Code, § 11-18-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.232 APPLICATION.
   Any structure which requires a building permit or which is 30 inches or more
in height shall be subject to setback, floor area and other requirements of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-18-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.233 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Detached accessory buildings greater than 120 square feet in floor area
shall require a building permit. The Building Official shall review the site
plan and construction drawings to determine compliance with the Building Code
and other applicable ordinances, laws and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-18-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.234 EXTERIOR BUILDING STANDARDS.
   Architectural details for accessory buildings are to be the same or similar
as for the principal building based upon (but not limited to) the following
criteria:
   (A)   Scale and detailing;
   (B)   Roof pitch orientation and slope;
   (C)   Overhang depth and details;
   (D)   Window and exterior door proportion and types;
   (E)   Building material; and
   (F)   Exterior color.
(Prior Code, § 11-18-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.235 AREA LIMITATIONS.
   The combination of attached garages and detached accessory structures shall
not exceed the area standards.
 
Zoning District Allowable Floor Area
R-E             2,000 square feet
R-1             1,500 square feet
R-2             1,500 square feet
R-3             1,500 square feet
R-4             30% of the gross floor area of the multiple-family structure
 
(Prior Code, § 11-18-6) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.236 NUMBER OF STRUCTURES.
   Total number of accessory buildings and garages shall be limited to the
following:
   (A)   One attached garage and one detached accessory building; or
   (B)   Two detached accessory structures.
(Prior Code, § 11-18-7) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.237 SETBACKS.
   (A)   Attached buildings/garages. An attached garage shall be considered an
integral part of the principal building and shall conform to district setback
requirements.
   (B)   Detached buildings. Detached accessory buildings shall comply with the
following minimum setbacks.
 
Location   Setback
Front yard Per applicable district requirements
Rear yard  Per applicable district requirements
Side yard  Per applicable district requirements
   A garage with access to and from an alley and with the vehicular entrance
fronting the alley shall be setback a minimum of 15 feet
 
   (C)   No accessory building shall be located within a drainage or utility
easement.
(Prior Code, § 11-18-8) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 271, passed 3-15-2007)
§ 152.238 HEIGHT.
   Except as expressly permitted by conditional use permit, accessory buildings
shall comply with the following height limitations.
 
Zoning District          Maximum Height
R, Residential Districts 16 feet
B, Business Districts    20 feet
I, Industrial Districts  26 feet
Other Districts          16 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 11-18-9) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.239 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   Application for a conditional use permit under this subchapter shall be
regulated by §§
152.070 through
152.074 of this chapter. A conditional use permit may be granted, provided
that:
   (A)   There is a demonstrated need and potential for continued use of the
structure for the purpose stated;
   (B)   No commercial or home occupation activities are conducted on the
property;
   (C)   The building has an evident reuse or function related to a single-
family residential environment;
   (D)   Accessory buildings shall be maintained in a manner that is compatible
with the adjacent residential uses and does not present a hazard to public
health, safety and general welfare; and
   (E)   The provisions of §
152.072 of this chapter shall be considered and a determination made that the
proposed activity is in compliance with that criteria.
(Prior Code, § 11-18-10) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.240 ANIMAL ENCLOSURES.
   (A)   Domestic animal enclosures shall not be placed in the front yard or in
the side yards abutting a street, shall not be placed closer than ten feet to
any property line and shall not be placed closer than 25 feet to any dwelling
unit other than on the owner's property.
   (B)   No encroachment shall be permitted in existing or required drainage
and/or utility easements.
   (C)   Screening and/or a hard surface will be required if problems occur
with appearance, noise, odor or sanitation as determined by the Zoning
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 11-18-11) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.241 COMPOST STRUCTURES AND FIREWOOD PILES.
   Compost structures and firewood piles shall be considered accessory uses,
shall be limited to rear yards and shall be subject to setback, square footage
and other requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-18-12) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS
§ 152.255 PURPOSE.
   The regulation of off-street parking spaces and loading areas in this
subchapter is to alleviate or prevent congestion of the public rights-of-way
and to promote the safety and general welfare of the public, by establishing
minimum requirements for off-street parking and loading areas for motor
vehicles in accordance with the intensity of utilization of various parcels of
land or structures.
(Prior Code, § 11-19-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.256 APPLICATION.
   The regulations and requirements set forth herein shall apply to all off-
street parking and loading areas in all of the zoning districts of the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-19-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.257 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Reduction of existing off-street parking space or lot area. Off-street
parking spaces and loading areas existing upon the effective date of this
subchapter hereof shall not be reduced in number or size unless the number or
size exceeds the requirements set forth herein for a similar new use.
   (B)   Change of use or occupancy of land. No change of use or occupancy of
land already dedicated to a parking area, parking spaces or loading areas shall
be made, nor shall any sale of land, division or subdivision of land be made
which reduces area necessary for parking, loading or circulation below the
minimum prescribed by this chapter.
   (C)   Change of use or occupancy of buildings. Any change of use or
occupancy of any building or buildings including additions thereto requiring
more parking and loading area shall not be permitted until there is furnished
additional parking and loading areas as required by this subchapter.
   (D)   Disability accessible parking. All parking associated with any
building, structure or use shall be required to conform to the disability
accessible parking standards pursuant to M.S. § 168.021, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (E)   Restrictions on parking.
      (1)   Restrictions. Required accessory off-street parking spaces in any
district shall not be utilized for open storage, sale or rental of goods,
storage of inoperable vehicles and/or storage of snow. All site plans required
by this subchapter shall illustrate the size and location of snow storage space
on the property in question.
      (2)   Limitations. Except as may be otherwise allowed by this subchapter,
on- and off-street parking facilities accessory to a residential use shall be
utilized solely for the parking of licensed and operable motor vehicles not to
exceed 22 feet in length and eight feet in height; and recreational vehicles
and equipment. Exceptions, for cause and in compliance with the intent and
purpose of this subchapter, may be approved by the Zoning Administrator as an
administrative permit.
      (3)   Semi-tractor and semitrailer parking. Semi-tractor and semitrailers
shall not be permitted within residential zoned districts except for the
specific purpose of loading or unloading cargo or freight.
      (4)   Contracting, excavating equipment or other commercial vehicles and
equipment. Except where specifically allowed, contracting, excavating equipment
or other commercial vehicles and equipment may not be parked or stored on any
property in the city unless it is being used in conjunction with a temporary
service benefitting the premises.
   (F)   Repair work. No motor vehicle repair work of any kind shall be
permitted in conjunction with exterior off-street parking facilities, except
for temporary (not exceeding eight hours) minor repairs of vehicles owned by
the occupant or resident of the principal use for which the parking space is
intended. No exterior storage of car parts is allowed at any time.
   (G)   Maintenance. It shall be the joint and several responsibility of the
lessee and owner of the principal use, uses or building to maintain in a neat
and adequate manner, the parking space, loading areas, accessways, striping,
landscaping and required fences/screening.
   (H)   Location. All accessory off-street parking and loading areas required
by this subchapter shall be located and restricted as follows.
      (1)   Lot and ownership. Required off-street parking and loading areas
shall be on the same lot under the same ownership as the principal use being
served, except under the provisions of §
152.262 of this subchapter.
      (2)   Direct access. Except for single-family, two-family, townhouse and
quadraminium dwellings, head-in parking, directly off of and adjacent to a
public street, with each stall having its own direct access to the public
street, shall be prohibited.
      (3)   Boulevard. The boulevard portion of the street right-of-way shall
not be used for parking, loading areas or circulation.
      (4)   Setback area. Required accessory off-street parking shall not be
provided in required front yards or in required side yards adjacent to a public
right-of-way (in the case of a corner lot) in residential districts defined by
§§
152.445 through
152.448 of this chapter.
      (5)   Prohibited in yard. In the case of single-family, two-family,
townhouse and quadraminium dwellings, parking shall be prohibited in any
portion of the front, side or rear yard, except on designated driveways leading
directly into a garage or one open, surfaced space located on the side of a
driveway, away from the principal use. The extra space shall be surfaced with
paver bricks, concrete or bituminous material.
(Prior Code, § 11-19-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.258 PARKING STALL, AISLE AND DRIVEWAY DESIGN; DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Parking lot dimensions. Except for single-family and two-family
residential uses or as otherwise provided for herein, all off-street parking
facilities shall conform with the following design standards.
Parking Lot Dimensions Table*
Angle of Parking Stall Width Curb Length Per Car Stall Depth Aisle Width
Parking Lot Dimensions Table*
Angle of   Stall Width      Curb Length Per  Stall Depth      Aisle Width
Parking                     Car
0 degrees  9 feet 0 inches  23 feet 0 inches 9 feet 0 inches  12 feet 0 inches
           9 feet 6 inches  23 feet 0 inches 9 feet 6 inches  12 feet 0 inches
           10 feet 0 inches 23 feet 0 inches 10 feet 0 inches 12 feet 0 inches
20 degrees 9 feet 0 inches  26 feet 4 inches 15 feet 0 inches 11 feet 0 inches
           9 feet 6 inches  27 feet 10       15 feet 6 inches 11 feet 0 inches
                            inches
           10 feet 0 inches 29 feet 3 inches 15 feet 11       11 feet 0 inches
                                             inches
30 degrees 9 feet 0 inches  18 feet 0 inches 17 feet 4 inches 11 feet 0 inches
           9 feet 6 inches  19 feet 0 inches 17 feet 10       11 feet 0 inches
                                             inches
           10 feet 0 inches 20 feet 0 inches 18 feet 3 inches 11 feet 0 inches
40 degrees 9 feet 0 inches  14 feet 0 inches 19 feet 2 inches 12 feet 0 inches
           9 feet 6 inches  14 feet 10       19 feet 6 inches 12 feet 0 inches
                            inches
           10 feet 0 inches 15 feet 8 inches 19 feet 11       12 feet 0 inches
                                             inches
45 degrees 9 feet 0 inches  12 feet 9 inches 19 feet 10       13 feet 0 inches
                                             inches
           9 feet 6 inches  13 feet 5 inches 20 feet 2 inches 13 feet 0 inches
           10 feet 0 inches 14 feet 2 inches 20 feet 6 inches 13 feet 0 inches
50 degrees 9 feet 0 inches  11 feet 9 inches 20 feet 5 inches 12 feet 0 inches
           9 feet 6 inches  12 feet 5 inches 20 feet 9 inches 12 feet 0 inches
           10 feet 0 inches 13 feet 2 inches 21 feet 0 inches 12 feet 0 inches
60 degrees 9 feet 0 inches  10 feet 5 inches 21 feet 0 inches 18 feet 0 inches
           9 feet 6 inches  11 feet 0 inches 21 feet 3 inches 18 feet 0 inches
           10 feet 0 inches 11 feet 6 inches 21 feet 6 inches 18 feet 0 inches
70 degrees 9 feet 0 inches  9 feet 8 inches  21 feet 0 inches 19 feet 0 inches
           9 feet 6 inches  10 feet 2 inches 21 feet 3 inches 18 feet 6 inches
           10 feet 0 inches 10 feet 8 inches 21 feet 3 inches 18 feet 0 inches
80 degrees 9 feet 0 inches  9 feet 2 inches  20 feet 4 inches 24 feet 0 inches
           9 feet 6 inches  9 feet 8 inches  20 feet 5 inches 24 feet 0 inches
           10 feet 0 inches 10 feet 3 inches 20 feet 6 inches 24 feet 0 inches
90 degrees 9 feet 0 inches  9 feet 0 inches  20 feet 0 inches 24 feet 0 inches
           9 feet 6 inches  9 feet 6 inches  20 feet 0 inches 24 feet 0 inches
           10 feet 0 inches 10 feet 0 inches 20 feet 0 inches 24 feet 0 inches
*   This table pertains to a wall-to-wall situation
 
   (B)   Parking area and drive aisle setbacks.
Parking Area and Drive Aisle Setbacks
Dimension Land Use Setback
Parking Area and Drive Aisle Setbacks
Dimension                           Land Use                         Setback
Front yard and side yard abutting a
street setback of parking and drive R Districts                      30.0 feet
to lot line
                                    Business/Institutional Districts 10.0 feet
                                    Industrial Districts             10.0 feet
Interior side and rear year setback R Districts                      5.0 feet
of parking to lot line
                                    Business/Institutional Districts 10.0 feet
                                    Industrial Districts             10.0 feet
 
   (C)   Joint or combined parking facilities. Joint or combined parking
facilities on separate lots as authorized and when constructed adjacent to a
common lot line separating two or more parking areas are not required to
observe the parking area setback from the common lot line.
   (D)   Commercial and industrial uses. For commercial and industrial uses,
side and rear yard setbacks shall be 20 feet when abutting a residential
district.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ca8d3e3c632d9f3ebbd97ba13905b1b6ba248b11/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2156.jpg]
 
   (E)   Within structures.
      (1)   The off-street parking requirements may be furnished by providing a
space so designed within the principal building or detached accessory
structure.
      (2)   Unless alternative provisions in compliance with this subchapter
and chapter are made, no building permit shall be issued to convert the parking
structure into a dwelling unit or living area or other activity.
   (F)   Circulation.
      (1)   Except in the case of single-family, two-family, townhouse and
quadraminium dwellings, access and parking areas shall be designed so that
circulation between parking bays or aisles occurs within the designated parking
lot and does not depend upon a public street or alley.
      (2)   Except in the case of single-family, two-family, townhouse and
quadraminium dwellings, access and parking area design which requires backing
into the public street is prohibited.
      (3)   Subject to approval of an administrative permit by the Zoning
Administrator, the required parking spaces serving one- and two-family
dwellings constructed prior to the effective date of this subchapter, may be
designed for parking not more than two vehicles in a tandem arrangement for
each dwelling unit in order to comply with the requirements of this subchapter.
In no case shall the space project into a sidewalk or public or private street
or driveway.
   (G)   Curb cut location/driveway access spacing. Curb cut locations and
driveway access spacing shall meet the following setbacks.
      (1)   No curb cut/driveway access shall be located less than 30 feet from
the intersection of two or more local street rights-of-way. This distance shall
be measured from the intersection of lot lines. Curb cut/driveway access
setbacks from the intersection of streets with higher functional
classifications shall be consistent with the recommendations of the
Comprehensive Plan and require approval by the city.
         (a)   Street functional classification shall be defined by the
Comprehensive Plan.
         (b)   The setback measurement shall be measured from the edge of the
street right-of-way to the nearest edge of the curb cut.
         (c)   Driveways onto arterials and major collectors shall be
prohibited where alternative street access is available. For existing lots of
record, where alternative access is not available, direct access onto arterial
and major collectors may be permitted, provided a site plan is submitted for
review and approval of the city staff. Approval is also subject to the
conditions of this subchapter.
      (2)   Except for single-, two-family and townhouse dwellings,
quadraminium curb cut/driveway access on a public street shall not be located
less than 40 feet from one another.
      (3)   Unless otherwise approved by the city staff, curb cut openings and
driveways shall be a minimum of five feet from the side yard property line in
all districts. Any shared driveway shall include a maintenance and access
agreement.
   (H)   Curb cut width. No driveway curb cut access within the public right-
of-way shall exceed the following unless approved by the City Engineer.
 
Use                                              Driveway Curb Cut Access
Single-family dwellings with two stall garages   26 feet
Single-family dwellings with three stall garages 26 feet
All other uses                                   26 feet
 
   (I)   Property lines. Except as allowed by administrative permit, curb cut
openings shall be a minimum of five feet from the side yard property line in
all districts.
   (J)   Grade elevation.
      (1)   Parking spaces and areas. The grade elevation of any parking area
shall not exceed 5%, except as approved by the City Engineer.
      (2)   Driveways. Unless approved by the City Engineer, the grade
elevation of any driveway shall not exceed:
         (a)   Ten percent for single-family and two-family dwellings; and
         (b)   Five percent for all other uses.
   (K)   Number allowed. Each property shall be allowed one curb cut access for
each 125 feet of street frontage, except by administrative permit, subject to
the following criteria.
      (1)   The additional access is necessary to provide adequate on-site
circulation.
      (2)   The additional access shall create a minimum of conflict with
through traffic movement and shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
   (L)   Surfacing.
      (1)   All areas intended to be utilized for parking space and driveways
shall be surfaced with pavement or concrete.
      (2)   Except for single-family, two-family, townhouse and quadraminium
dwellings or as required or exempted by the city staff, drive aisles and
parking stalls shall be constructed in accordance with the following minimum
tonnage standards:
         (a)   One and one-half inch wear course;
         (b)   Two inch base course;
         (c)   Eight inch aggregate base (Class 5); and
         (d)   Subgrade subject to City Engineer's approval.
      (3)   Plans for surfacing and drainage of driveways and stalls for five
or more vehicles shall be submitted to the City Engineer for review and the
final plans shall be subject to the Engineer's written approval.
   (M)   Striping. All parking areas of five spaces or more shall be marked
with white or yellow painted lines not less than four inches wide.
   (N)   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking area
shall be in compliance with §
152.187 of this chapter.
   (O)   Curbing. Except for single-family, two-family, townhouse and
quadraminiums, all open off-street parking shall have a perimeter continuous
concrete curb around the entire parking lot.
   (P)   Pedestrian provision. Off-street parking areas shall be designed so
that vehicle and pedestrian circulation is accommodated in a safe,
complementary and orderly fashion. When curb separated sidewalks are provided
at the head of parking stalls, the minimum width shall be five feet.
   (Q)   Parking lot landscaping.
      (1)   Required screening. All open, nonresidential off-street parking
areas of five or more spaces shall be screened and buffered from abutting or
surrounding residential districts in compliance with §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter.
      (2)   No landscaping or screening shall interfere with drive or
pedestrian visibility for vehicles entering, circulating or exiting the
premises.
   (R)   Compact car spaces. Up to 20% of the parking spaces in a parking lot
may be permanently marked for compact cars only, provided that:
      (1)   The parking lot contains 80 or more off-street parking spaces;
      (2)   All compact car spaces are a minimum of nine feet in width and 16
feet in length;
      (3)   Signs and markings, as approved by the city, are placed and
maintained in each compact car space;
      (4)   All required off-street parking aisle widths are maintained;
      (5)   The compact car stalls shall not displace preferred disability
accessible parking stall locations; and
      (6)   The design, layout and location of designated compact car spaces
shall not be located in immediate proximity to building entrances, shall not
encourage utilization by oversized vehicles and shall be subject to approval by
the Zoning Administrator.
   (S)   Drive-through windows. Service windows shall be allowed subject to the
following requirements.
      (1)   Stacking. Not less than 180 feet of segregated automobile stacking
lane shall be provided for the service window.
      (2)   Traffic control. The stacking lane and its access shall be designed
to control traffic in a manner to protect the pedestrians, buildings and green
area on the site.
      (3)   Use of street. No part of the public street or boulevard may be
used for stacking of automobiles.
(Prior Code, § 11-19-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 375, passed 5-4-2021)
§ 152.259 NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Calculating space.
      (1)   When determining the number of off-street parking spaces results in
a fraction, each fraction of one-half or more shall constitute another space.
      (2)   The term FLOOR AREA for the purpose of calculating the number of
off-street parking spaces required shall be determined on the basis of the
exterior footprint dimensions of the buildings, structure or use times the
number of floors, minus 10%, except as may hereinafter be provided or modified.
      (3)   In stadiums, sports arenas, churches and other places of public
assembly in which patrons or spectators occupy benches, pews or other similar
seating facilities, each 18 inches of the design capacity seating facilities
shall be counted as one seat for the purpose of determining requirements.
      (4)   Except as provided for under joint parking and for shopping
centers, should a structure contain two or more types of use, each use shall be
calculated separately for determining the total off-street parking spaces
required.
   (B)   Number of spaces required. The following minimum number of off-street
parking spaces shall be provided and maintained by ownership, easement and/or
lease for and during the life of the respective uses hereinafter set forth.
      (1)   Auto, boat, trailer, farm equipment sales lots. One space per 400
square feet gross sales and office floor area and of the building plus one
space per each 2,000 square feet of gross outdoor sales lot area.
      (2)   Auto repair. Two spaces per serving bay; the service bay is not a
parking space, plus one for each employee on the maximum shift.
      (3)   Boarding house/accessory apartment. At least one parking space for
each person for whom accommodations are provided for sleeping.
      (4)   Bowling alleys. Five spaces for each alley plus additional spaces
for related uses.
      (5)   Car washes (drive through and self service). One space per employee
plus:
 
Drive through 6 stacking spaces
Self-service  1 stacking space per wash bay
 
      (6)   Churches, theaters, auditoriums. At least one parking space for
each four seats based on the design capacity of the main assembly hall.
Facilities as may be provided in conjunction with the buildings or uses shall
be subject to additional requirements which are imposed by this chapter.
      (7)   Community centers, libraries, private clubs, lodges, museums, art
galleries. One space for each 300 square feet of floor area in the principal
structure.
      (8)   Contractors' offices, shops and yards. One per 1,000 square feet of
shop area or warehousing, plus one per 300 square feet of office space.
      (9)   Daycare facilities.
         (a)   Daycare facilities serving 14 or fewer persons. In addition to
residential parking requirements, one space per seven children capacity.
         (b)   All other daycare facilities. One space per teacher on the
largest shift, plus one space per ten students/children based on maximum
capacity of the facility.
      (10)   Elderly (senior citizen) housing. Reservation of area equal to one
parking space per unit. Initial development is, however, required of only one-
half space per unit and the number of spaces can continue until a time as the
City Council considers a need for additional parking spaces has been
demonstrated.
      (11)   Financial institutions, banks, savings and loan. Four spaces for
every 1,000 square feet.
      (12)   Funeral undertaking establishments. At least 20 parking spaces for
each chapel or parlor, plus one parking space for each funeral home vehicle.
Aisle space shall also be provided off the street for making up a funeral
procession.
      (13)   Furniture store/household appliances. One space per 400 square
feet of gross sales floor area. One space per 1,000 square feet of warehousing.
      (14)   Garden supply stores, building material sales in structures. Eight
off-street parking spaces, plus one additional space for 800 square feet of
floor area over 1,000 square feet.
      (15)   Golf courses. Four spaces per hole, plus 50% of the requirements
for any other associated use.
      (16)   Golf driving ranges, miniature golf courses, archery ranges. Ten
off-street parking spaces plus one for each 100 square feet of floor space of
building.
      (17)   Health clubs. One space per two exercise stations (e.g., strength
machine or cardio vascular) plus one space per employee on the largest shift
plus additional parking for ancillary uses (e.g., gymnasiums, auditoriums,
offices, restaurants).
      (18)   Manufacturing facilities. One space for each 400 square feet of
gross floor area, plus one space for every company owned vehicle.
      (19)   Motels, motor hotels, hotels. One space per each rental unit plus
one space for each eight units and one space for each employee on any shift.
      (20)   Motor fuel stations. At least four off-street parking spaces plus
one space for each employee on duty. Those facilities designed for sale of
other items than strictly automotive products, parts or service shall be
required to provide additional parking in compliance with other applicable
sections of this chapter.
      (21)   Office buildings, animal hospitals and clinics, professional
offices and medical clinics. Three spaces plus at least one space for each 200
square feet of floor area.
      (22)   Open sales lots. Ten spaces or one per 2,000 square feet gross
land area devoted to sales lot, whichever is larger.
      (23)   Racquetball, handball and tennis courts, commercial. Not less than
six spaces per each court.
      (24)   Rest home, nursing home, convalescent center or institution. One
space for each six beds based upon maximum design capacity, plus one space for
each two employees.
      (25)   Restaurants, cafés, private clubs serving food and/or drinks,
bars, on-sale nightclubs. One space for each 40 square feet of dining or bar
area and one space for each 80 square feet of kitchen area.
      (26)   Restaurants, fast food. Fifteen spaces per 1,000 square feet of
gross floor area.
      (27)   Retail sales and service business with 50% or more of gross floor
area devoted to storage, warehouses and/or industry. At least eight spaces or
one space for each 200 square feet devoted to public sales or service, plus one
space for each 500 square feet of storage area.
      (28)   Retail stores and service establishments. At least one off-street
parking space for each 200 square feet of floor area.
      (29)   Schools, elementary and junior high. One space for each classroom
plus one additional space for each 300 student capacity, plus one space for
each employee, plus one space for each four seats in auditorium.
      (30)   Schools, high schools and colleges. One space for each classroom
plus one additional space for each seven students based upon maximum design
capacity.
      (31)   Shopping centers. Five spaces per each 1,000 square feet of gross
leasable floor area (exclusive of common areas).
      (32)   Single-family and two-family dwellings. Two spaces per unit.
      (33)   Townhome, quadraminium, manor home, multiple-family dwellings and
manufactured homes within manufactured home parks. At least two and one-fourth
rent-free spaces per unit. In projects involving eight or more units, the city
may require additional clustered guest parking spaces based upon calculation of
required demand.
      (34)   Warehousing, storage of handling of bulk goods. The space which is
solely used as office shall comply with the office use requirements and one
space for each 1,500 square feet of floor area and one space for each company
owned truck (if not stored inside principal building).
      (35)   Other uses. Other uses not specifically mentioned herein shall be
determined on an individual basis by the City Council. Factors to be considered
in the determination shall include (without limitation) the national parking
standards for size of building, type of use, number of employees, expected
volume and turnover of customer traffic and expected frequency and number of
delivery or service vehicles.
   (C)   Off-street bicycle parking. Provisions shall be made for the off-
street parking of bicycles in all multiple-family and nonresidential
developments and uses. Plans for the facilities shall be reviewed and evaluated
on an individual project or use basis as part of site plan review provisions of
§§
152.130 through
152.138 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-19-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.260 EXEMPTIONS.
   The Historic Downtown District is exempt from all parking requirements.
(Prior Code, § 11-19-6) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.261 PARKING DEFERMENT.
   The city may allow a reduction in the number of required parking stalls for
commercial, industrial and institutional uses by administrative permit provided
as follows.
   (A)   The proposed use will have a peak parking demand less than the
required parking under §
152.259(B) of this subchapter. Factors to be considered when reviewing the
proposed parking demand shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Size of building;
      (2)   Type and use;
      (3)   Number of employees;
      (4)   Projected volume and turnover of customer traffic;
      (5)   Projected frequency and volume of delivery or service vehicles;
      (6)   Number of company-owned vehicles; and
      (7)   Storage of vehicles on-site;
   (B)   In no case shall the amount of parking provided be less than one-half
of the amount of parking required by this subchapter.
   (C)   The site has sufficient property under the same ownership to
accommodate the expansion of the parking facilities to meet the minimum
requirements of this chapter if the parking demand exceeds on-site supply.
   (D)   On-site parking shall only occur in areas designed and constructed for
parking in accordance with this subchapter.
   (E)   The applicant and city enter into a development agreement, to be
recorded against the subject property, which includes a clause requiring the
owner to install the additional parking stalls, upon a finding of the Zoning
Administrator that additional parking stalls are necessary to accommodate the
use.
   (F)   A change of use will necessitate compliance with the applicable zoning
regulation standard for parking.
(Prior Code, § 11-19-7) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.262 JOINT FACILITIES.
   The City Council may, after receiving a report and recommendations from the
Planning Commission, approve as applicable a conditional use permit for long
term permanent joint parking facilities as regulated under the provisions of §§
152.070 through
152.074 of this chapter, or an interim use permit for short term temporary
joint parking facilities as regulated under the provisions of §§
152.085 through
152.089 of this chapter, for one or more businesses to provide the required
off-street parking facilities by joint use of one or more sites where the total
number of spaces provided are less than the sum of the total required for each
business should they provide them separately. When considering a request for a
permit, the Planning Commission shall not recommend that the permit be granted
nor the Council approve a permit except when the following conditions are found
to exist.
   (A)   Up to 50% of the parking facilities required for a conference center,
theater, bowling alley, banquet hall, bar or restaurant may be supplied by the
off-street parking facilities provided by types of uses specified as primarily
daytime uses in §
152.261 of this chapter.
   (B)   Up to 50% of the off-street parking facilities required for any use
specified under §
152.261 of this chapter as primary daytime uses may be supplied by the parking
facilities provided by the following nighttime or Sunday uses: auditoriums
incidental to a public or parochial school, religious buildings, bowling
alleys, banquet halls, theaters, bars, apartments, restaurants or health clubs.
   (C)   Up to 80% of the parking facilities required by this chapter for a
religious building or for any auditorium incidental to a public or parochial
school may be supplied by the off-street parking facilities provided by uses
specified under division (D) below of this section as primarily daytime uses.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section the following uses are considered as
primarily daytime uses: banks, business offices, manufacturing, wholesale and
similar uses, as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
   (E)   Conditions required for joint use.
      (1)   The building or use for which application is being made to utilize
the off-street parking facilities provided by another building or use shall be
located within 500 feet of the parking facilities;
      (2)   There shall be no substantial conflict in the principal operating
hours of the two buildings or uses (for which joint use of off-street parking
facilities is proposed); and
      (3)   A properly drawn legal instrument, executed by the parties involved
in joint use of off- street parking facilities, duly approved as to form and
manner of execution by the City Attorney, shall be filed with the City
Administrator and recorded with the County Recorder. The legal instrument shall
legally bind all parties and provide for amendment or cancellation only upon
written approval from the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-19-8) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.263 OFF-SITE PARKING.
   (A)   Any off-site parking which is used to meet the requirements of this
subchapter may, as applicable, be allowed by a conditional use permit for long
term off-site parking facilities as regulated under the provisions of §§
152.070 through
152.074 of this chapter, or an interim use permit for short term temporary off-
site parking facilities as regulated under the provisions of §§
152.085 through
152.089 of this chapter and shall be subject to the conditions listed below.
   (B)   Off-site parking shall be developed and maintained in compliance with
all requirements and standards of this subchapter.
   (C)   Reasonable access from off-site parking facilities to the use being
served shall be provided.
   (D)   Except as provided by division (H) below of this section, the site
used for meeting the off-street parking requirements of this chapter shall be
under the same ownership as the principal use being served or under public
ownership.
   (E)   Off-site parking for multiple-family dwellings shall not be located
more than 250 feet from any normally used entrance of the principal use served.
   (F)   Off-site parking for nonresidential uses shall not be located more
than 500 feet from the main public entrance of the principal use being served.
Off-site parking located more than 500 feet from the main entrance may be
allowed with the provision of a private shuttle service.
   (G)   Any use which depends upon off-site parking to meet the requirements
of this subchapter shall maintain ownership and parking utilization of the off-
site location until a time as on-site parking is provided or a site in closer
proximity to the principal use is acquired and developed for parking.
   (H)   Compliance with off-street parking requirements provided through
leased off-street parking may be approved by the City Council, subject to the
following additional conditions.
      (1)   The lease shall specify the total number and location of parking
spaces under contract and this number, when added to any on-site parking
provided, shall be equal to or exceed the total number of parking spaces
required.
      (2)   The lease instrument shall legally bind all parties to the lease
and provide for amendment or cancellation only upon written approval from the
city.
      (3)   The lease agreement shall incorporate any other provisions, as
recommended by the City Attorney that are deemed necessary to ensure compliance
with the intent of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-19-9) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.264 OFF-STREET LOADING.
   (A)   Loading area required. Any structure erected or substantially altered
for a use that requires the receipt of distribution of materials or merchandise
by trucks or similar vehicles, shall provide off-street loading area as
required for a new structure.
   (B)   Number of loading spaces required. The number of required off-street
loading area spaces shall be as follows.
      (1)   Residential uses.
 
Use                                                Spaces Required
Single-family and two-family dwellings, townhomes, None
quadraminiums
Other multiple-family dwellings
   Less than 4 dwelling units                   None
   4 to 24 dwelling units                       1
   For each additional 24 dwelling units over 241
 
      (2)   Nonresidential uses.
 
Gross Floor Area (Square Feet)          Spaces Required
Less than 25,000                        1
25,001 to 50,000                        2
50,001 to 75,000                        3
75,001 to 100,000                       4
For each additional 50,000 over 100,000 1
 
   (C)   Reduction in spaces. Reductions to the number of loading spaces
required by this section may be granted by administrative permit upon
determination of facility need.
   (D)   Location.
      (1)   Except for uses allowed within residential districts, loading areas
established after the effective date of this subchapter shall be prohibited
within 100 feet of residentially zoned or guided property unless completely
screened by an intervening building.
      (2)   Loading areas not screened by an intervening building shall be
screened from adjacent residentially zoned or guided property by the use of
berms, fences or walls to provide 100% opacity to a height of at least ten
feet.
      (3)   Loading areas shall not occupy the required front yard in
residential districts and the front yard or side yard of a corner lot in
commercial and industrial districts, except by conditional use permit provided
that:
         (a)   Loading areas shall not conflict with pedestrian movement; and
         (b)   Loading areas shall not obstruct the view of the public right-
of-way from off-street parking access.
   (E)   Surfacing. All loading areas and accessways shall be improved with
pavement or concrete.
   (F)   Accessory use, parking and storage. Any space allocated as a required
loading area or access drive so as to comply with the terms of this subchapter
shall not be used for the storage of goods, inoperable vehicles or snow and
shall not be included as part of the space requirements to meet the off-street
parking area.
   (G)   Screening. Except in the case of multiple-family dwellings, all
loading areas shall be screened and landscaped from abutting and surrounding
residential uses and districts and public rights-of-way in compliance with §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this subchapter.
   (H)   Size.
      (1)   The first loading area shall be not less than 70 feet in length and
additional areas required shall be not less than 30 feet in length and all
loading areas shall be not less than ten feet in width, exclusive of aisle and
maneuvering space and 14 feet in clearance height.
      (2)   The size of the loading area may be reduced upon approval of an
administrative permit. To qualify for the exception, the following provisions
shall be met.
         (a)   It is demonstrated that the site cannot physically accommodate a
loading area to the size required.
         (b)   It is demonstrated that semitrailer truck deliveries will not
occur at the site or all deliveries will occur at a time as to not conflict
with customer or employee access to the building and parking demand.
   (I)   Circulation. In addition to the required loading space, all loading
spaces shall include a maneuvering area. The maneuvering area shall not use any
of that portion of the site containing parking stalls or customer service
areas. Maneuvering areas shall be of a size as to permit the backing of truck
tractors and coupled trailers into the loading space, without blocking the use
of other loading spaces, drives, parking spaces or maneuvering areas on public
rights-of-way.
   (J)   Construction standards. The construction and setback standards listed
in §
152.258 of this subchapter shall apply to all loading spaces.
(Prior Code, § 11-19-10) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 375, passed 5-4-2021)
FENCING; SCREENING; LANDSCAPING
§ 152.275 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish standards for the
installation of fencing, screening and landscaping as may be required by other
subchapters of this chapter and to protect the general health, safety and
welfare of the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-20-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.276 FENCES.
   Fences shall be permitted in all yards subject to the following.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall construct any fence without first
making an application for and securing an administrative permit for fences not
exceeding six feet in height and a building permit for fences exceeding six
feet in height.
   (B)   Locations; boundary line fences.
      (1)   A fence that requires periodic maintenance shall be located no
closer than two feet from any side or rear yard lot line on the property of the
person constructing the fence. An exception to this may be allowed by
administrative permit provided that an agreement addressing construction,
maintenance and repair responsibilities, as well as trespass rights, is
established between the adjoining property owners and the agreement is
determined acceptable to the City Attorney and filed with the County Recorder
against the titles of the respective properties. The fence agreement shall
provide for amendment or cancellation only upon written approval from the
Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   A fence that is maintenance free, such as a chain link of steel,
plastic or vinyl and is acceptable as that to the Zoning Administrator, may be
constructed up to the side or rear yard property line.
      (3)   The city may require the owner of the property upon which a fence
now exists, or may require any applicant for a fence permit to establish the
boundary lines of the property by a survey thereof to be made by any land
surveyor.
      (4)   No fences shall be placed on or extend into public rights-of-way or
onto public property.
   (C)   Construction and maintenance.
      (1)   Every fence shall be constructed in a substantial, workmanlike
manner and of substantial material reasonably suited for the purpose for which
the fence is proposed to be used. Every fence shall be maintained in a
condition of reasonable repair and shall not be allowed to become and remain in
a condition of disrepair or danger, or constitute a nuisance, public or
private. Any fence which is, or has become dangerous to the public safety,
health or welfare is a public nuisance and the Zoning Administrator shall
commence proper proceedings for the abatement thereof.
      (2)   The side of any fence considered to be its "face" (i.e., the
finished side having no structural supports) shall face abutting property or
street right-of-way.
   (D)   Solid walls. Solid walls up to eight feet in height that are not part
of buildings may be constructed and maintained only within the buildable area
of a lot.
   (E)   Traffic sight visibility triangle. On corner lots, no fence or screen
shall be permitted within the traffic sight visibility triangle specified by §
152.186 of this chapter.
   (F)   Residential fencing and screening.
      (1)   Except as provided herein, fences shall be at least 5% open for
passage of air, light and drainage.
      (2)   Except as provided herein, fences may not exceed six feet in
height.
      (3)   Fences extending across front yards and side yards abutting a
public right-of-way shall not exceed 48 inches in height and shall be at least
50% open space for passage of air and light and shall conform to the traffic
visibility triangle requirements of §
152.186 of this chapter.
   (G)   Swimming pool protection.
      (1)   A permit as described herein shall be required for swimming pools
having a depth of 24 inches at any point and a surface area exceeding 150
square feet.
         (a)   Administrative permit required. Prefabricated swimming pools in
which the pool walls are entirely above the adjacent grade and the capacity
does not exceed 5,000 gallons shall require an administrative permit before
installation.
         (b)   Building permit required. All in-ground pools regardless of
capacity and all aboveground swimming pools that exceed 5,000 gallons shall
require a building permit before installation.
      (2)   Each application for a permit to construct a swimming pool shall be
accompanied by plans of sufficient detail to show:
         (a)   The proposed location of the pool and its relationship to the
principal building on the lot;
         (b)   The size of the pool;
         (c)   Fencing and other fixtures existing and proposed on the lot,
including utility location and trees;
         (d)   The location, size and types of equipment to be used in
connection with the pool, including, but not limited to, filter unit, pump
fencing and the pool itself; and
         (e)   The requirements contained in this division and division (G)(3)
below of this section will be satisfied including submission and approval of a
site plan.
      (3)   All swimming pools for which a permit is required shall be provided
with safeguards to prevent children from gaining uncontrolled access. This can
be accomplished with fencing, screening or other enclosure, or any combination
thereof, of sufficient density as to be impenetrable. If fences are employed,
they shall be at least four feet in height. The bottoms of the fences shall not
be more than four inches from the ground nor shall any open space in the fence
be more than four inches. Fences shall be of a non-corrosive material and shall
be constructed as to be not easily climbable. All fence openings or points of
entry into the pool enclosure shall be equipped with gates or doors. All gates
or doors to swimming pools shall be equipped with self-closing and self-
latching devices placed at a sufficient height so as to be inaccessible to all
small children. The fencing requirements of this division (G) of this section
need only be provided around the means of access on aboveground pools which
have four feet high, vertical or outward inclined side walls. Prior to filling
the pool, the approved fence and/or screen shall be completely in place and
inspected and approved by the City Building Official.
      (4)   In all residential districts, swimming pools shall be set back ten
feet from all adjoining lots and, except for fences and pump enclosures, shall
be located at least ten feet away from any other building or structure on the
same lot and shall not be located within a drainage or utility easement.
Swimming pools shall not be permitted in a front yard or in the area between
the street right-of-way and the minimum required building side yard setback
line.
   (H)   Business and industrial fencing.
      (1)   No fence shall be allowed in the front yard of a business use
except by conditional use permit.
      (2)   Except in a required front yard, business and industrial fences may
be erected up to eight feet in height.
      (3)   Business and industrial fences with barbed wire security arms shall
be erected a minimum of six feet in height (measured without the security arm).
The security arm shall be angled in a manner that it extends only over the
property of the permit holder and does not endanger the public. Security
fencing shall be prohibited within a required front yard or when located along
a property line abutting a residential use.
   (I)   Special purpose fences. Fences for special purposes and fences
differing in construction, height or setback that are not constructed within a
required front yard may be permitted in any district as a conditional use
permit subject to §§
152.070 through
152.074 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-20-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.277 GENERAL LANDSCAPING AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All exposed ground areas, including street boulevards and areas not
devoted to off-street parking, drives, sidewalks, patios or other improvements
shall be landscaped with grass, shrubs, trees or other ornamental landscape
materials within one year following the certificate of occupancy is issued.
   (B)   All landscaped areas shall be maintained by the property owner and
kept neat, clear and uncluttered, and where landscaping is required as part of
city approvals, any plant material which is diseased or dies shall be replaced
with like kind of the original size.
   (C)   Fences and/or plantings placed upon utility easements are subject to
removal by the city or utility company if required for maintenance or
improvement of the utility. In that case, costs for removal and replacement
shall be the responsibility of the property owner. Trees on utility easements
containing overhead wires shall not exceed 15 feet in height, and the trees
shall be the property owner's responsibility to maintain.
(Prior Code, § 11-20-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.278 REQUIRED LANDSCAPING.
   All new residential subdivisions with three or more lots, residential
structures with four or more dwelling units, commercial uses, industrial uses
and institutional uses shall be subject to minimum landscaping and planting
material specification requirements outlined in this section.
   (A)   Landscape plan required. A landscape plan shall be developed with an
emphasis upon the boundary of the subject site, parking lots and foundation of
the principal structure, in accordance with the information requirements
outlined in §
152.135(D) of this chapter.
   (B)   Design standards and criteria. All landscaping incorporated in the
landscape plan shall conform to the following standards and criteria.
      (1)   Types of new trees. Trees suitable for complying with this section
shall include those specified below.
Botanical Name Common Name
Botanical Name                   Common Name
Acer platanoides (and varieties) Norway maple (and Schwedler, emerald queen and
                                 the like)
Acer saccharum                   Sugar maple
Betula (varieties)               Birch
Celtis occidentalis              Hackberry
Fraxinus Pennsylvania lanceolata Green ash (and Summit, Marshall's)
Ginkgo biloba (male tree only)   Ginkgo
Gleditsia triacanthos            Honeylocust (imperial, majestic, skyline,
                                 sunburst and thornless)
Quercus (varieties)              Oak
Tilia Americana                  Basswood (American linden)
Tilia cordata (and varieties)    Little leaf linden and redmond, greenspire and
                                 the like
Guymnocladus dioicus             Kentucky coffee tree
 
      (2)   Minimum size. All plants shall at least equal the following minimum
sizes: (Note: Type and mode are dependent upon time of planting season,
availability and site conditions (soils, climate, ground water, human-made
irrigation, grading and the like).)
 Potted/Bare Root or Balled or Burlapped
                                      Potted/Bare Root or Balled or Burlapped
Evergreen trees                       6 feet
Low shrubs
   Deciduous                       24 to 30 inches
   Evergreen                       24 to 30 inches
   Spreading evergreens            18 to 24 inches
Ornamental trees (flowering crabs,    2-inch diameter
Russian olive, hawthorn and the like)
Shade trees                           2-1/2 inch diameter
Tall shrubs and hedge material        3 to 4 feet
(evergreen or deciduous)
 
      (3)   Spacing.
         (a)   Plant material centers shall not be located closer than three
feet from the fence line or property line and shall not be planted to conflict
with public plantings, sidewalks, trails, fences, parking areas and driveways
based on the judgment of the Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   Where plant materials are planted in two or more rows, plantings
shall be staggered in rows unless otherwise approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
         (c)   Deciduous trees intended for screening shall be planted not more
than 40 feet apart. Evergreen trees intended for screening shall be planted not
more than 15 feet apart.
         (d)   Where massing of plants or screening is intended, large
deciduous shrubs shall be planted four feet on center or closer and/or
evergreen shrubs shall be planted three feet on center or closer.
      (4)   Design (except for pond slopes which shall be subject to the review
and approval of the City Engineer).
         (a)   The landscape plan shall show some form of designed site
amenities (i.e., composition of plant materials and/or creative grading,
decorative lighting, exterior sculpture and the like) which are largely
intended for aesthetic purposes.
         (b)   All areas within the property lines (or beyond, if site grading
extends beyond) shall be treated. All exterior areas not paved or designated as
roads, parking or storage shall be planted into ornamental vegetation (lawns,
ground covers or shrubs) unless otherwise approved by the Zoning Administrator.
         (c)   Each single-family lot is to be provided a minimum of two shade
trees.
         (d)   Turf slopes in excess of three to one are prohibited.
         (e)   All ground areas under the building roof overhang shall be
treated with a decorative mulch and/or foundation planting.
         (f)   All buildings shall have an exterior water spigot or irrigation
system to ensure that landscape maintenance can be accomplished.
         (g)   Trees and shrubs shall not be planted in the right-of-way except
as approved by the City Council.
         (h)   All plants required as part of an approved landscaping plan
shall be maintained and kept alive. Dead plants shall be replaced in accordance
with the approved landscape plan.
   (C)   Landscape guarantee. All new plants shall be guaranteed for 12 months
from the time planting has been completed. All plants shall be alive, of good
quality and disease free at the end of the warranty period or be replaced. Any
replacements shall be warranted for 12 months from the time of planting.
(Prior Code, § 11-20-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.279 REQUIRED LANDSCAPE SCREENING.
   (A)   Screening. All commercial, industrial or institutional uses shall
provide screening along the boundary of any abutting residential district or
when the side or rear of the use (as determined by the Zoning Administrator) is
separated from any residential district by a public right-of-way. All screening
required by this section shall be subject to §
152.186 of this chapter (traffic visibility) and is to consist of a green belt
strip as provided below.
      (1)   A green belt planting strip shall consist of evergreen trees and/or
deciduous trees and plants and shall be a minimum of 20 feet in width and of a
sufficient density to provide a visual screen and reasonable buffer. This
planting strip shall be designed to provide visual screening to a minimum
height of six feet. The grade for determining height shall be the grade
elevation of the building or use for which the screening is providing
protection, unless otherwise established by the Zoning Administrator. The
planting plan and type of plantings shall require the approval of the Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)   A fence may also be installed, but not in lieu of the green belt
planting strip. The fence shall be constructed of masonry, brick or wood,
except as otherwise provided herein. The fence shall provide a solid screening
effect and shall be a minimum of six feet in height but shall not exceed eight
feet in height. The grade for determining height shall be the grade elevation
of the building or use for which the screening is providing protection, unless
otherwise established by the Zoning Administrator. The design and materials
used in constructing a required screening fence shall be subject to the
approval of the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Residential buffer yards.
      (1)   Lot depth requirements. Except for lots of record and preliminary
platted lots having legal standing on the effective date of this subchapter,
double frontage residential lots shall have an additional depth of at least 20
feet designated as an additional drainage and utility easement, in order to
allow space for buffering/screen planting along the back lot line.
      (2)   Lot width requirements. Except for lots of record and preliminary
platted lots having legal standing established on the effective date of this
subchapter, lots which border major collector or arterial streets on a side
yard shall have an additional width of at least ten feet designated as an
additional drainage and utility easement in order to allow space for buffering
and screening plantings along the lot line bordering the streets.
      (3)   Screening plan required. For applicable subdivisions, a
comprehensive screening plan shall be submitted. The plan shall identify all
proposed buffer screening in both plan and sectional view.
      (4)   Timing/responsibility of installation. Weather permitting, all
buffer, bermings and/or plantings shall be constructed or planted prior to the
issuance of a final certificate of occupancy.
      (5)   Design standards.
         (a)   Plantings. All designated buffer yards shall be seeded or sodded
except in areas of steep slopes where natural vegetation is acceptable as
approved by the Zoning Administrator. All plantings within designated buffer
yards shall adhere to the following.
            1.   Plant material centers shall not be located closer than three
feet from the fence line or property line, and shall not conflict with public
plantings, sidewalks, trails and the like.
            2.   Landscape screen plant material shall be planted in two or
more rows. Plantings shall be staggered in rows unless otherwise approved by
the Zoning Administrator.
            3.   Deciduous shrubs shall not be planted more than four feet on
center and/or evergreen shrubs shall not be planted more than three feet on
center.
            4.   Deciduous trees intended for screening shall be planted not
more than 40 feet apart. Evergreen trees intended for screening shall be
planted not more than 15 feet apart.
         (b)   Walls and fences. All walls and fences erected within designated
buffer yards shall adhere to the following.
            1.   Only walls and fences formally approved as part of the
subdivision and site plan process shall be permitted within the buffer yard.
            2.   At least 50% of the street side of a screening fence shall be
landscaped with plant materials. Plant materials shall be at least equal to the
fence height.
            3.   Fences and landscaping shall not be located within the traffic
visibility triangle defined by §
152.186 of this chapter.
         (c)   Earth berms.
            1.   Except in areas of steep slopes or where other topographic
features will not permit, as determined by the City Engineer, an earth berm at
least four feet in height shall be installed in all designated buffer yards;
            2.   Shall not exceed a three to one slope unless approved by the
City Engineer; and
            3.   Shall contain no less than four inches of topsoil.
      (6)   Maintenance.
         (a)   Maintenance of the buffer strip planting and/or fence shall be
the responsibility of the individual property owners or, if applicable, the
homeowners' association.
         (b)   All repairs to the fence or wall shall be consistent with the
original fence design in regard to location and appearance.
         (c)   Replacement of landscape materials or plantings in a buffer yard
area shall be consistent with the original screen design.
         (d)   All repair or plant replacement shall be done within 45 days of
written notification from the Zoning Administrator or if applicable, the
homeowners' association.
(Prior Code, § 11-20-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.280 TREE PRESERVATION.
   Prior to the issuance of building permits for all new and/or expanded
multiple-family residential, commercial, industrial and institutional uses, a
tree preservation plan shall be submitted. The plan and its implementation
shall be in accordance with the requirements as outlined in the subdivision
regulations and shall be subject to the review and approval of the City
Engineer and Zoning Administrator. The city may exempt an applicant from the
submission of a tree preservation plan upon demonstration by the applicant that
a plan is not considered relevant to the site in question.
(Prior Code, § 11-20-6) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.281 SCREENING OF MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT.
   All rooftop and ground-mounted mechanical equipment for residential
buildings having five units or more and for nonresidential buildings shall
comply with the following standards.
   (A)   All rooftop and ground-mounted mechanical equipment shall be screened
so as to mitigate noise in compliance with §
152.191 of this chapter.
   (B)   All rooftop and ground-mounted mechanical equipment shall be designed
(including exterior color) and located so as to be aesthetically harmonious and
compatible with the building. Screening of and landscaping around the equipment
may be required where the design, color and location of the equipment are found
to not effectively buffer noise or provide aesthetic harmony and compatibility.
Screening shall be constructed of durable materials which are aesthetically
compatible with the structure and which may be an integral part of the
structure.
   (C)   Rooftop mechanical equipment less than three feet in height may be
exempt from screening requirements by the Zoning Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 11-20-7) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
HOME OCCUPATIONS
§ 152.295 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to maintain the character and integrity of
residential areas, to prevent competition with business districts, to encourage
telecommuting and to provide a means through the establishment of specific
standards and procedures by which home occupations can be conducted in
residential neighborhoods without jeopardizing the health, safety and general
welfare of the surrounding neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 11-21-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.296 APPLICATION.
   Subject to the nonconforming use provision of this chapter, all occupations
conducted in the home shall comply with the provisions of this subchapter. This
subchapter shall not be construed, however, to apply to home offices as defined
by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-21-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.297 PROCEDURES AND PERMITS.
   (A)   Home occupation. Any home occupation, as defined in this chapter,
shall require an administrative permit. These permits shall be issued subject
to the conditions of this §§
152.115 through
152.118 of this chapter and applicable city ordinances and state law.
   (B)   Special home occupation. Any home occupation which does not meet the
specific requirements for a home occupation, as defined in §
152.298(A) and (B) of this subchapter shall require an interim use permit which
shall be applied for, reviewed and terminated in accordance with the provisions
of §§
152.085 through
152.089 of this subchapter and the following.
      (1)   Declaration of conditions. The Planning Commission and City Council
may impose conditions on the granting of an interim use permit as may be
necessary to carry out the purpose and provisions of this section.
      (2)   Effect of permit. An interim use permit may be issued for a period
of one year on a set annual schedule starting ending December 31 of each year.
Special home occupation interim use permits will be reviewed for renewal on an
annual basis at the first Council meeting of year. Renewal permits shall be
requested 30 days prior to the city's review. A renewal fee per the city's fee
schedule shall be paid at time of special home occupation renewal permit
request.
      (3)   Renewal of permits. An applicant shall not have a vested right to a
permit renewal by reason of having obtained a previous permit. In applying for
and accepting a permit, the permit holder agrees that his or her monetary
investment in the home occupation will be fully amortized over the life of the
permit and that a permit renewal will not be needed to amortize the investment.
Each application for the renewal of a permit will be considered anew without
taking into consideration that a previous permit has been granted. The previous
granting or renewal of a permit shall not constitute a precedent or basis for
the renewal of a permit.
   (C)   Transferability. Administrative or interim use permits shall not run
with the land and shall not be transferable.
(Prior Code, § 11-21-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.298 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   All home occupations shall comply with the following general provisions and
according to definition, the applicable requirement provisions.
   (A)   All uses.
      (1)   No home occupation shall produce light, glare, noise, odor or
vibration that will in any way have an objectionable effect upon adjacent or
nearby property.
      (2)   No equipment shall be used in the home occupation which will create
electrical interference to surrounding properties.
      (3)   All home occupations shall be clearly incidental and secondary to
the residential use of the premises, should not change the residential
character thereof and shall not result in incompatibility or disturbance to the
surrounding residential uses.
      (4)   No home occupation shall require internal or external alterations
or involve construction features not customarily found in dwellings except
where required to comply with local and state fire and police recommendations.
      (5)   There shall be no exterior storage of equipment or materials used
in the home occupation, except personal automobiles used in the home occupation
may be parked on the site.
      (6)   The home occupation shall meet all applicable Fire and Building
Codes.
      (7)   There shall be no exterior display or exterior signs or interior
display or interior signs which are visible from outside the dwelling with the
exception of one directional or identification/ business sign not to exceed two
square feet in area. The sign shall be located at the entrance to the home,
either on the principal building itself or, if freestanding, within five feet
of the entrance of the home at a height no greater than three feet.
      (8)   No home occupation shall be conducted between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m., unless the occupation will not require any on-street or
off-street parking facilities.
   (B)   Home occupations.
      (1)   No person other than those who customarily reside on the premises
shall be employed.
      (2)   Home occupations include and are limited to:
         (a)   Art studio;
         (b)   Tailoring;
         (c)   Secretarial services;
         (d)   Consulting services; and
         (e)   Professional offices and teaching with musical, dancing and
other instructions which consist of no more than one pupil at a time and
similar uses.
      (3)   The home occupation shall not involve any of the following:
         (a)   Repair service or manufacturing which requires equipment other
than found in a dwelling;
         (b)   Teaching or services which consists of more than one pupil,
client or customer at a time; and
         (c)   Over-the-counter sale of merchandise produced off the premises.
      (4)   Home occupations shall not create a parking demand in excess of
that which can be accommodated in an existing driveway or guest parking area
for multiple-family dwellings, where no vehicle is parked closer than 15 feet
from the curb line or edge of paved surface.
   (C)   Special home occupations.
      (1)   No person other than a resident shall conduct the special home
occupation, except where the applicant can satisfactorily prove unusual or
unique conditions or need for nonresident assistance and that this exception
would not compromise the intent of this section.
      (2)   Examples of special home occupations include:
         (a)   Barber and beauty services;
         (b)   Massage therapy;
         (c)   Photography studio;
         (d)   Small appliances repair;
         (e)   The marketing of non-over-the-counter brand name products; and
         (f)   Other occupations of like nature.
      (3)   The special home occupation may involve any of the following:
         (a)   Stock-in-trade incidental to the performance of the service,
repair service or manufacturing which requires equipment other than customarily
found in a home; and
         (b)   The teaching with musical, dancing and other instruction of more
than one pupil at a time.
      (4)   Special home occupations may be allowed to accommodate their
parking demand through utilization of on-street parking. In these cases where
on-street parking facilities are necessary, however, the City Council shall
maintain the right to establish the maximum number of on-street spaces
permitted and increase or decrease that maximum number when and where changing
conditions require additional review.
(Prior Code, § 11-21-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.299 NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   Existing home occupations lawfully existing on the effective date of
this chapter may continue as nonconforming uses.
   (B)   They will be required to obtain permits for their continued operation.
   (C)   Any existing home occupation that is discontinued for a period of more
than 90 days, or is in violation of the provisions under which it was initially
established, shall be brought into conformity with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-21-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.300 INSPECTION.
   The city hereby reserves the right upon issuing any home occupation permit
to inspect the premises in which the occupation is being conducted to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this chapter or any conditions additionally
imposed.
(Prior Code, § 11-21-6) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
ANIMALS
§ 152.315 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide standards for the keeping of
animals in association with various allowed uses in a manner compatible with
surrounding uses and consistent with the health, safety and general welfare of
the community.
(Prior Code, § 11-22-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.316 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The size, number, species, facilities for and location of animals kept
shall be maintained so as not to cause a nuisance or endanger the health,
safety or general welfare of the community and shall be in compliance with this
subchapter and all other applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Animals may only be kept for commercial purposes if the activities are
authorized in the zoning district where the animals are to be located.
   (C)   Facilities for housing animal(s) shall be:
      (1)   Constructed of material as is appropriate for the animal(s)
involved;
      (2)   Maintained in good repair;
      (3)   Controlled as to temperature, ventilated and lighted compatible
with the health and comfort of the animal(s); and
      (4)   Cleaned as often as necessary to prevent contamination of the
animal(s) contained therein and to minimize disease hazards and reduce odors.
(Prior Code, § 11-22-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.317 [RESERVED].
§ 152.318 COMMERCIAL, PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC ANIMAL SHELTERS OR KENNELS.
   (A)   No person shall maintain or operate any commercial, public or quasi-
public kennel or shelter keeping two or more dogs and/or cats over six months
of age on their premises in the city without obtaining a license pursuant to
this subchapter and the city code.
   (B)   A minimum lot size of one acre is required to be licensed for
operation of a commercial, public or quasi-public kennel or shelter.
   (C)   Every commercial, public or quasi-public kennel or shelter shall be
enclosed or fenced in a manner as to prevent the running at large or escape of
animals confined therein.
   (D)   Provisions are made to control animal noise.
   (E)   Commercial, public or quasi-public dog kennels or cat shelters shall
be open for inspection by the city authorities at any time.
(Prior Code, § 11-22-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.319 ANIMALS OTHER THAN FARM OR DOMESTIC.
   The keeping of wild animals, or animals not defined as farm animals or house
pets, shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 11-22-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
ANTENNAS
§ 152.330 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish predictable and
balanced regulations for the siting and screening of wireless communications
equipment in order to accommodate the growth of wireless communication systems
within the city while protecting the public against any adverse impacts on the
city's aesthetic resources and the public welfare.
   (B)   The provisions of the section are intended to maximize the use of
existing towers, structures and buildings to accommodate new wireless
telecommunication antennas in order to minimize the number of towers needed to
serve the community.
(Prior Code, § 11-23-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.331 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The following standards shall apply to all personal wireless service
telephone, public utility, microwave, radio and television broadcast
transmitting, radio and television receiving, satellite dish and short-wave
radio transmitting and receiving antenna.
   (A)   All obsolete and unused antennas and towers shall be removed within 12
months of cessation of operation at the site by the antenna or tower owner,
unless an exemption is granted by the city. A copy of the relevant portions of
a signed lease which requires the applicant to remove the tower and associate
facilities when they are abandoned, unused or become hazardous shall be
submitted to the city.
   (B)   All antennas and towers shall be in compliance with all State Building
and Electrical Code requirements and as applicable shall require related
permits. Applications to erect new antennas and/or towers shall be accompanied
by any required federal, state or local agency licenses.
   (C)   Structural design, mounting and installation of the antenna shall be
in compliance with manufacturer's specifications and as may be necessary, as
determined by the City Engineer, shall be verified and approved by a
professional engineer.
   (D)   When applicable, written authorization for antenna and/or tower
erection shall be provided by the property owner.
   (E)   No advertising message shall be affixed to the antenna and/or tower
structure.
   (F)   Antennas and/or towers shall not be artificially illuminated unless
required by law or by a governmental agency to protect the public's health and
safety.
   (G)   If a new tower of 75 feet or greater in height is to be constructed,
it shall be designed structurally, electrically and in all respects, to
accommodate both the applicant's antennas and antennas for at least one
additional use, including but not limited to other personal wireless service
communication companies, local police, fire and ambulance companies. Towers
shall be designed to allow for future rearrangement of antennas upon the tower
and to accept antennas mounted at varying heights.
   (H)   Towers shall be painted a non-contrasting color consistent with the
surrounding area such as blue, gray, brown or silver or have a galvanized
finish to reduce visual impact, unless otherwise required by a governmental
agency.
   (I)   All antennas and towers shall be reasonably posted and secured to
protect against trespass, including appropriate measures to prevent
unauthorized persons from climbing any tower.
   (J)   Towers shall comply with all applicable Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) regulations.
   (K)   Amateur radio towers shall be installed in accordance with the
instructions furnished by the manufacturer of that tower model. Because of the
experimental nature of the amateur radio service, antennas mounted on a tower
may be modified or changed at any time so long as the published allowable load
on the tower is not exceeded and the structure of the tower remains in
accordance with the manufacturer's specifications.
   (L)   Except as may be applicable in case where a conditional use permit is
required, antennas and support structures for federally licensed amateur radio
stations and used in the amateur radio service shall be exempt from the
following:
      (1)   Division (H) above;
      (2)   Section
152.333; and
      (3)   Section
152.334.
(Prior Code, § 11-23-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.332 CERTIFICATION, INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All towers, antenna support structures and related equipment or
structures shall be kept and maintained in good condition, order and repair so
as not to menace or endanger the life or property of any person.
   (B)   All towers shall be certified by an engineer to be structurally sound
and in conformance with the requirements of the State Building Code and federal
and state law.
   (C)   The city shall have authority to enter onto the property upon which a
tower is located to inspect the tower for the purpose of determining whether it
complies with the State Building Code and all other construction standards
provided by the city's code, federal and state law. The city reserves the right
to conduct inspections at any time, upon reasonable notice to the owner. All
expenses related to inspecting by the city shall be borne by the owner.
(Prior Code, § 11-23-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.333 TOWER DESIGN.
   Where allowed, wireless communication towers shall be of a monopole design
unless the City Council determines that an alternative design requested by the
applicant would better blend into the surrounding environment.
(Prior Code, § 11-23-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.334 CO-LOCATION REQUIREMENT.
   An application for a new tower shall not be approved unless the applicant
demonstrates that the antennas cannot be accompanied on an existing or approved
tower, building or structure within a two mile search radius of the proposed
tower due to one or more of the following reasons.
   (A)   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of the
existing or approved tower, building or structure as documented by a qualified
and licensed professional engineer, and the existing or approved tower cannot
be reinforced, modified or replaced to accommodate planned or equivalent
equipment at a reasonable cost.
   (B)   The planned equipment would cause interference materially impacting
the usability of other existing or planned equipment at the tower or building
as documented by a qualified engineer and interference cannot be prevented at a
reasonable cost.
   (C)   Other unforeseen reasons that make it unfeasible to locate the
antennas upon an existing or approved tower or structure.
   (D)   Existing or approved towers, buildings or other structures do not
exist in the search area or do not meet the needs of the user. Documentation
shall be provided at the time of application clearly demonstrating why existing
structures do not meet the needs to the users.
   (E)   The applicant shall demonstrate that a good faith effort to co-locate
on existing towers or structures was made, but an agreement could not be
reached.
(Prior Code, § 11-23-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.335 ACCESSORY ANTENNAS.
   The following standards shall apply to all accessory antennas including
radio and television receiving antennas, satellite dishes, TVROs three meters
or less in diameter, short-wave radio dispatching antennas or those necessary
for the operation of electronic equipment including radio receivers, ham radio
transmitters and television receivers.
   (A)   Accessory antennas shall not be erected in any required yard (except a
rear yard) or within public or private utility and drainage easements, and
shall be set back a minimum of five feet from all lot lines.
   (B)   Guy wires or guy wire anchors shall not be erected within public or
private utility and drainage easements, and shall be set back a minimum of one
foot from all lot lines.
   (C)   Accessory antennas and necessary support structures, monopoles or
towers may extend a maximum of 15 feet above the normal height restriction for
the affected zoning district, except support structures and antennas used in
the amateur radio service may extend a maximum of two times the normal height
restriction for the affected zoning district.
   (D)   The installation of more than one accessory structure and support
structure per property shall require the approval of a conditional use permit.
(Prior Code, § 11-23-6) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.336 PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE ANTENNAS.
   (A)   Residential and B-1 District standards.
      (1)   Antennas located upon an existing tower or structure. Personal
wireless service antennas as a permitted secondary use may be located upon
existing towers or structures shall require the processing of an administrative
permit and shall comply with the following standards.
         (a)   Transmitting, receiving and switching equipment shall be housed
within an existing structure whenever possible. If a new equipment building or
cabinet is necessary for transmitting, receiving and switching equipment, it
shall be situated in the side or rear yard of the principal use, meet all
applicable accessory building setback requirements and shall be screened from
view by landscaping where appropriate.
         (b)   An administrative permit is issued by the city, subject to the
following conditions:
            1.   Antennas mounted on buildings or structures shall not extend
more than 15 feet above the structural height of the building or structure to
which they are attached;
            2.   When antennas extend above the roof height of a building on
which it is mounted, it shall be made to conceal the facility within or behind
existing architectural features to limit its visibility from public places.
Facilities mounted on a roof shall be stepped back from the front facade in
order to limit their impact on the building's silhouette; and
            3.   Wall or facade mounted antennas may not extend more than five
feet above the cornice line and shall be constructed of a material or color
which matches the exterior of the building.
         (c)   In no case shall a personal wireless service antenna be located
upon or affixed to a detached single-family residential dwelling.
      (2)   New towers. The erection of new personal wireless service antenna
towers within residential and business zoning districts of the city is
prohibited.
   (B)   Industrial District standards.
      (1)   Antennas located upon an existing structure or existing tower.
Personal wireless service telephone antennas as a permitted secondary use may
be located upon an existing structure or co-located on an existing tower shall
require the processing of an administrative permit and shall comply with the
following standards:
         (a)   An administrative permit is issued by the city;
         (b)   Antennas mounted on buildings or structures shall not extend
more than 15 feet above the structural height of the building or structure to
which they are attached;
         (c)   When antennas extend above the roof height of a building on
which it is mounted, it shall be made to conceal the facility within or behind
existing architectural features to limit its visibility from public places.
Facilities mounted on a roof shall be stepped back from the front facade in
order to limit their impact on the building's silhouette; and
         (d)   Wall or facade mounted antennas may not extend more than five
feet above the cornice line and must be constructed of a material or color
which matches the exterior of the building.
      (2)   New towers. New towers as a permitted secondary use shall require
approval of a conditional use permit per §§
152.070 through
152.074 of this chapter and shall comply with the following conditions.
         (a)   The applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city
that location of the antennas as proposed is necessary to provide adequate
portable personal wireless service telephone coverage and capacity to areas
which cannot be adequately served by locating the antennas on an existing tower
or support structure.
         (b)   If no existing structure which meets the height requirements for
the antennas is available for mounting purposes, the antennas may be mounted on
a monopole tower provided that:
            1.   Towers with a maximum capacity to support two antennas shall
not exceed 140 feet in height. Towers with a minimum capacity to support three
antennas shall not exceed 160 feet in height; and
            2.   The setback of the tower from the nearest property line is not
less than the height of the antenna. Exceptions to the setback may be granted
in those cases when a qualified structural engineer specifies in writing that
any failure of the pole will occur within a lesser distance under all
foreseeable circumstances. The setback shall not be reduced in cases where the
subject site abuts a residential zoning district.
         (c)   Monopoles require a visual impact analysis which shall include
computer generated visual simulations of the proposed monopole and where
appropriate for proper analysis, a crane or balloon launching demonstrating the
height of the monopole may be required.
         (d)   Transmitting, receiving and switching equipment shall be housed
within an existing structure whenever possible. If a new equipment building or
cabinet is necessary for transmitting, receiving and switching equipment, it
shall be situated in the side or rear yard of the principal use, meet all
applicable necessary building setback requirements, and shall be screened from
view by landscaping where appropriate.
         (e)   At the discretion of the city, a security fence not greater than
eight feet in height with a maximum opacity of 50% shall be provided around the
support structure, as well as no climb security measures shall be provided on
the tower or support structure.
         (f)   At the discretion of the city, landscaping may be required to
adequately screen the base of the site from surrounding areas.
(Prior Code, § 11-23-7) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.337 COMMERCIAL AND PUBLIC RADIO AND TELEVISION TRANSMITTING ANTENNAS AND
PUBLIC UTILITY MICROWAVE ANTENNAS.
   Commercial and public radio and television transmitting and public utility
microwave antennas shall comply with the following standards.
   (A)   The antenna shall be considered an allowed conditional use within all
industrial districts of the city and shall be subject to the regulations and
requirements of §§
152.115 through
152.118 of this chapter.
   (B)   The antennas, transmitting towers or array of towers shall be located
on a continuous parcel having a dimension equal to the height of the antenna,
transmitting tower or array of towers measured between the base of the antenna
or tower located nearest a property line and the property line, unless a
qualified structural engineer specifies in writing that the collapse of any
antenna or tower will occur within a lesser distance under all foreseeable
circumstances.
   (C)   Unless the antenna is mounted on an existing structure, at the
discretion of the city, a fence not greater than eight feet in height with a
maximum opacity of 50% shall be provided around the support structure and other
equipment, as well as no climb security measures shall be provided on the tower
or structure.
(Prior Code, § 11-23-8) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
SIGNS
§ 152.350 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish minimum requirements, adopted
to protect the public health, safety, morals, comfort and general welfare of
the people of the city by providing regulations governing all signs, including,
but not limited to, the type, area, height, materials, construction,
illumination, location and maintenance of all signs and sign structures in the
city.
(Prior Code, § 11-24-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.351 EXISTING SIGNS AND NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Existing signs. Except for signs determined to create a public safety
hazard due to content or due to disrepair and condition or illegally
established signs, all legally established signs existing upon the effective
date of this subchapter shall not be enlarged or reconstructed, but may be
continued at the size and in the manner of operation existing upon that date.
   (B)   Alterations.
      (1)   A nonconforming sign may not be expanded.
      (2)   A nonconforming sign may be continued, including through repair,
replacement, restoration, maintenance or improvement, unless:
         (a)   The nonconforming sign is discontinued for a period exceeding
one year; or
         (b)   The nonconforming sign is destroyed by fire or other peril to
the extent of greater than 50% of its market value, and no permit has been
applied for within 180 days of when the nonconforming sign is damaged.
      (3)   Any permit is subject to reasonable conditions imposed by the City
Council to mitigate the impact on adjacent properties.
   (C)   Nonconforming sign maintenance and repair. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed as relieving the owner or user of a legal nonconforming sign
or owner of the property on which the legal nonconforming sign is located from
the provisions of this chapter regarding safety, maintenance and repair of
signs; provided, however, that any repainting, cleaning and other normal
maintenance or repair of the sign or sign structure shall not modify the sign
structure or copy in any way which makes it more nonconforming or the sign
shall lose its legal nonconforming status.
   (D)   Nonconforming uses. When the principal use of land is legally
nonconforming, all existing or proposed signs in conjunction with that land,
shall be considered conforming if they are in compliance with the sign
provisions for the most restrictive zoning district in which the principal use
is allowed.
(Prior Code, § 11-24-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.352 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The design and construction standards for signs, as set forth in the
State Building Code, as may be amended, are hereby adopted.
   (B)   The installation of electrical signs shall be subject to the State's
Electrical Code. Electrical service to the sign shall be underground.
   (C)   Signs containing noncommercial speech are permitted anywhere that
advertising or business signs are permitted, subject to the same regulations
applicable to the signs.
   (D)   Signs shall not create a hazard to the safe, efficient movement of
vehicular or pedestrian traffic. No private sign shall contain words which
might be construed as traffic controls, unless the sign is intended to direct
traffic on the premises.
   (E)   Signs and sign structures shall be properly maintained and kept in a
safe condition. Sign or sign structures which are rotted, unsafe, deteriorated
or defaced shall be repainted, repaired or replaced by the licensee, owner or
agent of the building upon which the sign stands.
   (F)   No sign shall be attached or be allowed to hang from any building
until all necessary wall and roof attachments have been approved by the
Building Official.
   (G)   No signs, guys, stays or attachments shall be erected, placed or
maintained on rocks, fences, utility poles, public signs or trees nor interfere
with any electric light, power, telephone or telegraph wires or the supports
thereof.
   (H)   Banners, pennants and similar devices shall require a license. The
license shall be valid for no more than 15 consecutive days. No more than two
licenses per business shall be granted during any 12-month period. Maximum sign
size shall be limited to 32 square feet if the adjacent roadway has a posted
speed of 44 mph or less, or 64 square feet if the adjacent roadway has a posted
speed of 45 mph or more.
   (I)   Illuminated signs shall be shielded to prevent lights from being
directed at oncoming traffic in a brilliance that it impairs the vision of the
driver. Nor shall signs interfere with or obscure an official traffic sign or
signal. This includes indoor signs which are visible from public streets.
   (J)   Except for legal, nonconforming portable signs existing prior to the
effective date of this chapter, portable signs may not exceed 24 square feet
and may not be illuminated with any flashing device. Use of a portable sign
shall require a license. The license shall be valid for no more than 15
consecutive days. No more than two licenses per business shall be granted
during any 12-month period.
   (K)   No sign or sign structure shall be closer to any lot line than a
distance equal to one-half the minimum required yard setback. No sign shall be
placed within any drainage or utility easement.
   (L)   No sign or sign structure shall be erected or maintained that prevents
free ingress or egress from any door, window or fire escape. No sign or sign
structure shall be attached to a standpipe or fire escape.
   (M)   A freestanding sign or sign structure constructed so that the faces
are not back to back, shall not have an angle separating the faces exceeding 20
degrees unless the total area of both sides added together does not exceed the
maximum allowable sign area for that district.
   (N)   Signs prohibited (but visible) in residential districts shall be
positioned so that the copy is not visible from residential uses or districts
along adjoining side and rear yard property lines.
   (O)   At least one address sign identifying the correct property number, as
assigned by the city, shall be required on each principal building in all
districts. The address number shall be at least four inches in height.
   (P)   The owner of any sign which is otherwise allowed by this sign
subchapter may substitute noncommercial copy in lieu of any other commercial or
noncommercial copy. This substitution of copy may be made without any
additional approval or permitting. The purpose of this provision is to prevent
any inadvertent favoring of commercial speech over noncommercial speech, or
favoring of any particular noncommercial message over any other noncommercial
message. This provision prevails over any more specific provision to the
contrary.
(Prior Code, § 11-24-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 303, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 152.353 PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   Permitted signs. The following signs are allowed without a permit:
      (1)   Public signs. Signs of a public, noncommercial nature, including
safety signs, directional signs to public facilities, trespassing signs,
traffic signs, signs indicating scenic or historical points of interest,
memorial plaques and the like, when erected by or on behalf of the city or its
employees;
      (2)   Identification signs. Identification signs not exceeding three
square feet;
      (3)   Informational signs. Informational signs not exceeding 16 square
feet;
      (4)   Directional signs.
         (a)   On-premise signs. On-premise signs shall not be larger than four
square feet. The number of signs shall not exceed four unless approved by the
Council; and
         (b)   Off-premise signs. Off-premise signs shall be limited to
situations where access is confusing and traffic safety could be jeopardized or
traffic could be inappropriately routed through residential streets. The size
of the sign shall be approved by the Council and shall contain no advertising.
      (5)   Campaign signs.
         (a)   All noncommercial signs of any size may be posted in any number
from 46 days before the state primary in a state general election year until
ten days following the state general election subject to the applicable
provisions of M.S. § 211B.045, as it may be amended from time to time. The
signs shall conform with the provisions of §
152.352.
         (b)   Campaign signs posted in connection with elections held at times
other than as regulated by M.S. § 211B.045, as it may be amended from time to
time, are subject to the following:
            1.   Campaign signs in commercial, industrial and institutional
zones not exceeding eight square feet and in all residential zones not
exceeding four square feet;
            2.   The sign shall contain the name and address of the person
responsible for the sign and that person shall be responsible for its removal;
and
            3.   The signs shall remain for no longer than 75 days in any
calendar year.
      (6)   Holiday signs. Signs or displays which contain or depict a message
pertaining to a religious, national, state or local holiday and no other matter
and which are displayed for a period not to exceed 75 days in any calendar
year;
      (7)   Construction signs. A non-illuminated construction sign confined to
the site of the construction, alteration or repair. The sign shall be removed
within two years of the date of issuance of the first building permit on the
site or when the particular project is completed, whichever is sooner. One sign
shall be permitted for each street the project abuts. No sign may exceed 32
square feet in residential districts, or 64 square feet in business, industrial
and institutional districts;
      (8)   "For Sale" and "To Rent" signs. "For sale" and "to rent" signs
shall be permitted subject to the following regulations:
         (a)   Residential dwelling units, regardless of number of units.
            1.   No more than one sign per lot, except on a corner lot, two
signs, shall exceed 16 square feet in area or be illuminated;
            2.   Each sign shall be devoted solely to the sale or rental of the
property being offered and shall be removed immediately upon the sale or rental
of the property; and
            3.   Each sign shall be placed only upon the property offered for
sale or rent.
         (b)   Commercial, industrial or institutional property. In the event
of the sale or rental of commercial, industrial or institutional property,
there shall be permitted one sign facing each public street, providing access
to the property being offered. Each sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in
area and shall be devoted solely to the sale or rental of the property being
offered and must be removed immediately upon the sale or rental of the last
property offered at that location. The sign may be located within the front
yard setback provided it is on private property.
      (9)   Rummage (garage) sale signs. Rummage sale signs shall not be posted
until the day before the sale and shall be removed within one day after the end
of the sale and shall not exceed four square feet. Rummage sale signs shall not
be located in any public right-of-way, or on utility poles, public signs,
traffic signals or equipment. The city shall have the right to remove and
destroy signs not conforming to this chapter.
   (B)   Prohibited signs. The following signs are prohibited:
      (1)   Advertising signs (off-premises). With the following exceptions:
         (a)   Signs advertising nonprofit organizations are permitted subject
to the restrictions imposed within the zoning district in which the sign is
located; and
         (b)   A real estate development sign advertising lots or property for
sale may be located off-premises by permit. The permit shall be renewable
annually and conditioned upon documentation allowing the sign or structure by
the property owner upon which it is to be located. The sign shall conform to
the size restriction of signs imposed within the respective district in which
the sign is located.
      (2)   Advertising or business signs on or attached to equipment such as
semi-truck trailers where signing is a principal use of the equipment on either
a temporary or permanent basis;
      (3)   Motion signs and flashing signs, except time and temperature signs
and barber poles;
      (4)   Projecting signs except as provided for in §
152.355 of this subchapter;
      (5)   Roof signs, except that a business sign may be placed on the fascia
or marquee of a building and provided:
         (a)   The sign does not extend above the highest elevation of the
building, excluding chimneys;
         (b)   The sign is thoroughly secured and anchored to the frames of the
building over when they are constructed and erected; and
         (c)   No portion of the sign extends beyond the periphery of the roof.
      (6)   Business signs which advertise an activity, business, product or
service no longer produced or conducted on the premises upon which the sign is
located. Where the owner or lessor of the premises is seeking a new tenant, the
signs may remain in place for not more than 30 days from the date of vacancy.
(Prior Code, § 11-24-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 303, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 152.354 GENERAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   R-E, R-1 and R-2 Districts; residential area identification.
      (1)   Only one sign for each area.
      (2)   Sign area may not exceed 32 square feet with a maximum height of
eight feet for freestanding signs.
   (B)   R-3 and R-4 Districts.
      (1)   Residential area identification. Only one sign for each area. Sign
area may not exceed 32 square feet with a maximum height of ten feet for
freestanding signs.
      (2)   Single or double occupancy multiple-family or business sign. The
total sign area may not exceed 10% of the total front building facade, except
that both front and side facades may be counted on a corner lot. Signs chosen
to comprise the total sign area shall be consistent with the following
provisions:
         (a)   Freestanding. Not more than one freestanding sign. Sign area may
not exceed 32 square feet with a maximum height of ten feet; and
         (b)   Wall, canopy or marquee. Not more than one wall, canopy or
marquee sign per building. However, on corner lots, two signs are allowed, one
per street frontage. Individual sign area may not exceed 32 square feet.
   (C)   R-B, B-1 and B-2 Districts.
      (1)   Area identification. Only one sign. Sign area may not exceed 100
square feet with a maximum height of 25 feet for freestanding signs.
      (2)   Single or double occupancy business sign. The total sign area may
not exceed 250 square feet or 15% of the total front building facade, whichever
is less. In calculating building facade, both front and side facades may be
counted on a corner lot. Signs chosen to comprise the total sign area shall be
consistent with the following provisions:
         (a)   Freestanding. Not more than one sign. Sign area may not exceed a
maximum height of 25 feet; and
         (b)   Wall, canopy or marquee. Not more than one wall, canopy or
marquee sign per building. However, on corner lots, two signs are allowed, one
per street frontage. Individual sign area for the second wall sign shall not be
calculated in the maximum for the property, but shall be limited so as not to
exceed 100 square feet.
   (D)   I-1 and I-2 Districts.
      (1)   Area identification. Only one sign. Sign area may not exceed 100
square feet with a maximum height of 25 feet for freestanding signs; and
      (2)   Single or double occupancy business sign. The total sign area may
not exceed 15% of the front building facade, except that both front and side
facades may be counted on a corner lot. Signs chosen to comprise the total sign
area shall be consistent with the following provisions:
         (a)   Freestanding. Not more than one sign. Sign area may not exceed
100 square feet with a maximum height of 25 feet; and
         (b)   Wall, canopy or marquee. Not more than one wall, canopy or
marquee sign per building. However, on corner lots, two signs are allowed, one
per street frontage. Individual sign area may not exceed 100 square feet.
   (E)   PUD, Planned Unit Development District. In a PUD District, signing
restrictions shall be based upon the individual uses and structures contained
in the complex. Signs shall be in compliance with the restrictions applied in
the most restrictive zoning district in which the use is allowed.
(Prior Code, § 11-24-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 375, passed 5-4-2021)
§ 152.355 SPECIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Motor fuel stations. Signs for motor fuel stations shall be regulated
by the single occupancy business structure sign provisions for the zoning
district in which the station is located. In addition, motor fuel stations may
also display signs which identify current fuel prices and car wash facilities.
The signs shall be limited to a maximum size of 16 square feet and a maximum
height of ten feet each.
   (B)   Wall, canopy or marquee signs in business, industrial and
institutional zoning districts. Where freestanding signs are not used and where
principal structures have a front yard setback in excess of that which is
required under the applicable zoning district regulations, the maximum property
signage percentage limitation or maximum square feet restriction may be
increased 1% for every five feet of additional setback beyond the zoning
district front yard setback requirement. This increase shall be limited to a
25% maximum and shall be applied only to signs located in the year for which
the calculation was made.
   (C)   Multiple occupancy business and industrial buildings. When a single
principal building is devoted to four or more businesses, or industrial uses, a
comprehensive sign plan for the entire structure shall be submitted and shall
be of sufficient scope and detail to permit a determination as to whether or
not the plan is consistent with the following regulations. The plan shall be
subject to the approval of the Council. No permit shall be issued for an
individual use except upon a determination that it is consistent with the
approved comprehensive sign plan.
      (1)   The maximum individual sign sizes for multiple occupancy structures
and individual uses which may display signs shall not exceed the maximum
provisions for single or double occupancy structures in the same zoning
district. The bonus provided in division (B) above of this section shall not
apply in calculating maximum sign size.
      (2)   Multiple occupancy structures may display an area identification
sign consistent with the applicable district provisions of §
152.354 of this subchapter. Individual freestanding signs identifying the
tenants' business shall not be displayed.
      (3)   Except as provided in division (C)(4) below of this section,
individual tenants of multiple occupancy structures shall not display separate
business signs unless the tenants' business has an exclusive exterior entrance.
The number of signs shall be limited to one per entrance, and each sign shall
be limited to the maximum wall size sign permitted in the district. The signs
shall be located only on exterior walls which are directly related to the use
being identified.
      (4)   In any multiple occupancy structure qualifying as a shopping
center, directory signs shall be permitted for each common public entrance.
Each directory sign area shall not exceed a total of 50 square feet and shall
be located within 50 feet of the common public entrance being served. The size
of individual business identification signing within the directory shall be
established during the site plan review process. Attention shall be given to
the possible number of tenant or occupancy bays which may be served by the
common public entrance for which the directory sign is intended.
   (D)   Shopping centers and industrial parks containing more than 20 acres.
Where shopping center facilities or industrial parks cover more than 20 acres
of land, two area identification signs may be displayed in accordance with the
maximum sign size provisions per area identification sign of the applicable
zoning district. Additional signs may be displayed subject to approval of the
City Council.
   (E)   Highway area directional signs. Within the area immediately adjacent
to U.S. 52, directional signs indicating business identification and access
routing signs may be allowed by approval of the City Council. These signs shall
be in compliance with the maximum sign size provisions of the district.
   (F)   Schools, athletic complexes or other public or semi-public
institutions.
      (1)   For facilities occupying an area of five acres or more, an
identification sign not larger than 96 square feet may be permitted upon
approval of a permit by the City Council.
      (2)   Temporary signs, banners and displays for church, school,
institutional or civic events are permitted but must be located on property
owned or controlled by the church, school, institution or civic organization
and may be displayed only during a period commencing 60 days prior to the
scheduled event and ending three days after closing date of the scheduled
event.
      (3)   For city parks and city athletic complexes, sponsorship signage if
approved by the City Council.
   (G)   Projecting signs. These signs, including those projecting into the
public right-of-way, may be allowed by a conditional use permit approved by the
Council in the B-2 Zoning District, provided that:
      (1)   The sign conforms to the uniform character and design guidelines
established for the area;
      (2)   The owner assumes all liability for the signs; and
      (3)   The signs conform to the size and height limitations of the
respective district.
   (H)   Murals. Public art murals are allowed within the Historic Downtown
Overlay District by a conditional use permit approved by the Council, provided
that:
      (1)   Business identification signs for a commercial building may be
separate from the wall mural or integrated into the wall mural. The business
identification sign will be limited in size to 10% of the cumulative wall area
of the facades facing a public street;
      (2)   Wall murals must be located on a side building facade facing either
a public street or a parking area and not on the front building facade so as to
preserve the historic character of the buildings;
      (3)   Wall murals shall not contain material which is obscene;
      (4)   The wall mural shall be maintained in presentable condition at all
times. The property owner shall be responsible for repainting, cleaning and
other acts required for maintenance purposes;
      (5)   The wall mural is a private venture. Should a building which
includes a mural be sold, the new property owner takes on all maintenance
responsibilities. Should the new owner choose not to maintain the mural as
required, the owner(s) must return the building facade to its original state.
Should the new owner(s) choose to change the mural in any fashion, an amendment
to the approved conditional use permit is required; and
      (6)   The applicant must submit examples of the proposed mural design and
dimensions to be reviewed by staff, the Downtown Committee, the Planning
Commission and the City Council.
   (I)   Business wall signs; temporary. Within the B-1 and B-2 Districts, two
business wall signs per building frontage are permitted without a permit and
may be displayed for a maximum period of 60 days. The size of each sign may not
exceed 32 square feet.
   (J)   (1)   Dynamic displays on signs are allowed only on monument and pylon
signs for schools, athletic complexes or other public or semi-public
institutions pursuant to §
152.355(F) and for permitted (§
152.646) and conditional (§
152.648) uses within the B-2, Highway Business District. Within the B-1,
Central Business District, a dynamic display sign is allowed as a wall sign
only on structures that are not designated as a contributing property by the
National Register of Historic Places (January 7, 2000).
      (2)   Signage for the display of current fuel prices for permitted Motor
Fuel Stations is regulated by §
152.355(A) and is not considered to be a dynamic display sign.
      (3)   Except within the B-1, Central Business District, dynamic displays
may occupy no more than 35% of the total allowable sign area that is permitted
by the Sign Code. Only one contiguous dynamic display area is allowed on a sign
face.
      (4)   A dynamic display may not change or move more often than once every
five minutes, except one for which changes are necessary to correct hour-and-
minute, date or temperature information. Time, date or temperature information
is considered one dynamic display and may not be included as a component of any
other dynamic display.
      (5)   The images and messages displayed must be static and the transition
from one static display to another must be instantaneous without any special
effects.
      (6)   Dynamic displays must be designed and equipped to freeze the device
in one position if a malfunction occurs. The displays must also be equipped
with a means to immediately discontinue the display if it malfunctions and the
sign owner must immediately stop the dynamic display when notified by the city
that it is not complying with the standards of the Sign Code.
      (7)   Dynamic displays must comply with the brightness standards
contained in §
152.352(I).
      (8)   Dynamic display signs shall be allowed in the R-B, Residential
Business District so long as the property the sign serves is a commercial use
by definition, found in §
152.021 of the City of Cannon Falls zoning ordinance. The signage shall be
allowed pursuant to all regulations and restrictions presented in
Chapter 152 of the City of Cannon Falls City Code.
(Prior Code, § 11-24-6) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 331, passed 8-6-2013;
Ord. 353, passed 6-13-2017; Ord. 367, passed 10-1-2019)
§ 152.356 INSPECTION.
   All signs for which a permit is required shall be subject to inspection by
the Building Official. The Building Official may order the removal of any sign
that is not maintained in accordance with the maintenance provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-24-7) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.357 PERMIT, APPLICATION, LICENSE, VARIANCE AND CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   (A)   Permit requirement. Except as provided in §
152.353 of this subchapter, it is unlawful for any person to erect, construct,
alter, rebuild or relocate any sign or structure until a permit has first been
issued by the city.
   (B)   Sign application. The following information for a sign license shall
be supplied by an applicant if requested by the city:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of person making application;
      (2)   Name, address and telephone number of person owning sign;
      (3)   A site plan to scale showing the location of lot lines, building
structures, parking areas, existing and proposed signs and any other physical
features;
      (4)   Plans, location and specifications and method of construction and
attachment to the buildings or placement method in the ground;
      (5)   Copy of stress sheets and calculations showing that the structure
is designed for dead load and wind pressure in any direction in the amount
required by this and all other laws and city code provisions;
      (6)   Written consent of the owner or lessee of any site on which the
sign is to be erected;
      (7)   Sign specs, color, material and lighting; and
      (8)   Other information as the city may require to show full compliance
with this and all other laws and city code provisions.
   (C)   License issued if application is in order. The Building Official, upon
the filing of an application for a license, shall examine the plans,
specifications and other data and the premises upon which it is proposed to
erect the sign. If it appears that the proposed structure is in compliance with
all requirements of this chapter and all other laws and city code provisions,
the license shall be issued. If the work authorized under a license has not
been completed within 60 days after the date of issuance, the license shall be
null and void.
   (D)   City Council approval. When this subchapter requires Council approval
for a sign, the application shall be processed in accordance with the
procedural and substantive requirements of the zoning regulations for a
conditional use permit.
   (E)   Variances. The City Council, acting as the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals, may, upon application, grant a variance from the terms of this
subchapter. The request for a variance shall be processed in accordance with
the procedural and substantive requirements of §§
152.100 through
152.103 of this subchapter.
   (F)   Fees. Fees for the review and processing of sign license applications
and variance requests shall be imposed in accordance with the fee schedule
established by City Council resolution.
(Prior Code, § 11-24-8) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.358 ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter shall be administered and enforced by the Building Official.
The Building Official may institute, in the name of the city, appropriate
actions or proceedings against a violator.
(Prior Code, § 11-24-9) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.359 VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
   Every person violates a section, division, paragraph or provision of this
subchapter when he or she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, or fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor
except as otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 11-24-10) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
DAYCARE FACILITIES
§ 152.370 PURPOSE.
   The regulation of daycare facilities in this subchapter is to establish
standards and procedures by which daycare facilities can be conducted within
the city without jeopardizing the health, safety and general welfare of the
daycare participants and/or the surrounding neighborhood. This section
establishes the city's minimum requirements for the establishment of a daycare
facility not allowed as permitted uses.
(Prior Code, § 11-25-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.371 PROCEDURE.
   Daycare facilities, except as otherwise provided for, shall be allowed as a
conditional use in accordance with the zoning districts established by §§
152.445 through
152.448 of this chapter, subject to the regulations and requirements of §§
152.070 through
152.074 of this chapter. In addition to the city regulation, all daycare
facility operations shall comply with the minimum requirements of the
applicable State Department of Human Services regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-25-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.372 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Daycare facilities shall meet the following requirements as applicable.
   (A)   Lot requirements and setbacks. The proposed site for a daycare
facility shall have a minimum lot area as determined by the State Department of
Human Services and the base zoning district in which it is located. The daycare
facility must meet the minimum setback requirements of the respective zoning
districts.
   (B)   Sewer and water. All daycare facilities shall have access to municipal
sewer and water to protect the health and safety of all persons who occupy the
facility.
   (C)   Screening. Where the daycare facility is in or abuts any commercial or
industrial use or zoned property, the daycare facility shall provide screening
along the shared boundary of the two uses. All of the required fencing and
screening shall comply with the fencing and screening requirements in §§
152.276 and
152.279 of this chapter.
   (D)   Parking.
      (1)   There shall be adequate off-street parking which shall be located
separately from any outdoor play area and shall be in compliance with §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter.
      (2)   There shall be adequate short-term parking or drop off area
provided within close proximity to the main entrance. Short-term or drop off
parking shall accommodate three car spaces and shall be designated as temporary
in nature. The short-term parking or drop off area shall not conflict with off-
street parking access and shall not conflict with pedestrian movement. The
short-term parking or drop off area is in addition to off-street parking and
loading spaces required by §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter.
      (3)   Except as may be approved as part of a joint parking arrangement,
as regulated by §
152.261, when a daycare facility is an accessory use within a structure
containing another principal use, each use shall be calculated separately for
determining the total off-street parking spaces required.
   (E)   Signage. All signing and informational or visual communication devices
shall be in compliance with §§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter.
   (F)   Daycare facility. The building plans for the construction or
alteration of a structure that is to be used as a daycare facility shall be
submitted to the city for review by the City Building Official to ensure that
the structure is in compliance with the State Building Code. The facility shall
meet the following conditions.
      (1)   Architectural appearance. The architectural appearance and
functional plan of the building and site shall not be so dissimilar to the
existing buildings or area as to cause incompatibility with neighboring
properties or constitute a blighting influence within a reasonable distance of
the lot.
      (2)   Land use compatibility. Internal and external site land use
compatibility and sufficient peripheral area protections shall be provided by
the daycare facility.
      (3)   Play space. Play space shall be adequately enclosed where necessary
to prevent children from leaving the premises unattended.
      (4)   Outdoor areas. Outdoor play areas shall not be provided within the
required front yard setbacks.
   (G)   Declaration of conditions. The Planning Commission and City Council
may impose conditions on the granting of a daycare facility conditional use
permit as may be necessary to carry out the purpose and provisions of this
subchapter.
   (H)   State licenses. Proof of approved applicable state licenses shall be
provided to the Zoning Administrator prior to the Building Official granting a
certificate of occupancy.
   (I)   Nonconforming use. Existing daycare facilities lawfully existing on
the effective date of this subchapter may continue as nonconforming uses. They
shall, however, be required to obtain applicable state and city permits for
their continued operation. Any existing daycare facility that is discontinued
for a period of more than 30 days, or is in violation of the ordinance
provisions under which it was initially established, shall be brought into
conformity with the provisions of this section.
   (J)   Inspection. The city hereby reserves the right upon issuing any
daycare facility conditional use permit to inspect the premises in which the
occupation is being conducted to ensure compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter or any conditions additionally imposed.
(Prior Code, § 11-25-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
ESSENTIAL SERVICES
§ 152.385 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the installation of
essential services such as telephone lines, pipelines, electric transmission
lines and substations in a manner that the health, safety and welfare of the
city will not be adversely affected. Essential services shall also be installed
in recognition of existing and projected demands for those services.
(Prior Code, § 11-26-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.386 ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   All telephone lines, pipelines and structures for local distribution,
underground electric transmission lines and overhead electric transmission
lines and substations less than 35kV, when installed in any public right-of-way
in any zoning district established by §§
152.445 through
152.448 of this chapter, shall require a right-of-way permit subject to review
and approval of the city.
   (B)   All telephone lines, pipelines and structures for local distribution,
underground electric transmission lines and overhead electric transmission
lines less than 35kV, which are intended to serve more than one parcel and are
proposed to be installed at locations other than in public right-of-way, shall
require an administrative permit subject to approval by the city. Approval by
the city shall be based upon the information furnished in the following
procedural requirements.
      (1)   Prior to the installation of any of the previous essential
services, the owner of the service shall file with the Zoning Administrator all
maps and other pertinent information as deemed necessary for the city to review
the proposed project.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall transmit the map and accompanying
information to the city for review and approval.
(Prior Code, § 11-26-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.387 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   All transmission pipelines (i.e., pipelines not required for local
distributing network) and overhead transmission and substation lines in excess
of 35kV and up to 100kV shall be a conditional use in all districts subject to
the procedural requirements and standards stipulated in this subchapter and §§
152.070 through
152.074 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-26-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.388 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   Essential services shall be subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   All distribution lines shall be underground.
   (B)   Outdoor storage of materials or equipment shall be prohibited.
   (C)   All poles and similar type structures shall be placed in the public
right-of-way or utility easement unless approved as an interim use permit
subject to §§
152.085 through
152.089 of this chapter.
   (D)   All facilities shall be landscaped and screened to the extent
practical and applicable pursuant to §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter.
   (E)   The size and number of accessory buildings are to be minimized to the
extent possible and are to house only equipment directly related to the
operation of the facility in question.
   (F)   The architectural appearance of all structures and buildings shall be
in harmony with the primary uses within the vicinity of the site.
(Prior Code, § 11-26-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.389 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to radio and wireless communication systems
and facilities. Regulation of these uses and activities are governed by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-26-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
LAND RECLAMATION
§ 152.400 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Grading permit. The placement or extraction of sand, gravel, black
dirt or other natural material from the land or the grading of land by a person
in the amount of 50 cubic yards or more shall require a grading permit.
   (B)   Permit exceptions. Exceptions to the grading permit requirement shall
be allowed in land reclamation activities:
      (1)   Conducted by a governmental jurisdiction; and
      (2)   Associated with a private development which were approved as part
of a subdivision or other development.
(Prior Code, § 11-27-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.401 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Applications. All applications for a grading permit shall be
accompanied by a detailed site plan drawn to scale and dimensioned displaying
the information as specified in §
152.135 of this chapter and the following:
      (1)   The purpose of the excavation or grading;
      (2)   A description of the type and amount of material to be excavated or
graded from the premises;
      (3)   The highway, street or streets or other public ways in the city
upon and along which any material is to be hauled or carried;
      (4)   An estimate of the time required to complete the excavation or
grading;
      (5)   A site plan showing present topography and also including boundary
lines for all properties, watercourses, wetlands and other significant features
within 300 feet;
      (6)   A site plan showing the proposed finished grade and landscape plan.
Erosion control measures shall be provided on the plan. Final grade shall not
adversely affect the surrounding land or the development of the site on which
the excavation is being conducted. Top soil shall be of a quality capable of
establishing normal vegetative growth;
      (7)   A security statement demonstrating the proposed activity will in no
way jeopardize the public health, safety and welfare or is appropriately fenced
to provide adequate protection;
      (8)   A statement that the applicant will comply with all conditions
prescribed by the city or its officers or agents;
      (9)   A written right-of-entry given to the city and/or its officers in
accordance with §
10.20 to enter the land for the purpose of determining compliance with all
applicable conditions imposed on the operation; and
      (10)   If the site is more than one acre in size, the applicant shall
complete a State Pollution Control Agency National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) Phase II permit for all excavation.
   (B)   Technical reports. The Zoning Administrator shall immediately upon
receiving a completed application present that information at the next city
staff meeting for staffs review and comment. A recommendation and appropriate
technical reports shall be prepared and reviewed at the next City Council
meeting.
   (C)   Issuance of permit. Upon receiving information and reports from the
city staff and other applicable agencies, the City Council shall make its
determination as to whether, and when and under what conditions the permit for
an excavation is to be issued to the applicant by the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-27-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.402 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   City requirements. The city, as a prerequisite to the granting of a
permit, or after a permit has been granted, may require the applicant to whom
the permit is issued, or the owner or user of the property on which the land
reclamation is located to:
      (1)   Properly fence the project site with both silt fences to control
erosion and safety fences as determined appropriate;
      (2)   Slope the banks and otherwise properly guard to keep the fill or
excavation in a condition as not to be dangerous from caving or sliding banks;
      (3)   Properly drain, fill or level the project site so as to make the
site safe, as determined by the city. The property owner is liable for ensuring
the safety of the site;
      (4)   Keep the fill/excavation/grading within the limits for which the
particular permit is granted;
      (5)   Remove or transport fill/excavated/graded material upon the along
highways, streets or other public ways as the city shall order and direct. The
cleaning of the streets shall be the responsibility of the developer on a daily
basis; and
      (6)   Retain and store top soil from the site in question and to utilize
materials in the restoration of the site.
   (B)   Hours of operation. Unless expressly extended by permit, the hours of
operation shall be limited to 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. Monday through Friday.
   (C)   Security. The city shall require either the applicant or the owner or
user of the property on which the fill/excavation/grading is occurring to post
a security in a form and sum as the city shall determine, with sufficient
surety provided to the city, conditioned to pay to the city the extraordinary
cost and expense of repairing, from time to time, and highways, streets or
other public ways where repair work is made necessary by the special burden
resulting from hauling and travel in transporting the material, the amount of
the costs and expense to be determined by the city; and conditioned further to
comply with all requirements of this subchapter, and the particular permit and
to pay any expense the city may incur by reason of doing anything required to
be done by any applicant to whom a permit is issued.
   (D)   Completion of operation.
      (1)   All operations shall be completed within one year of the issuance
of the permit. Upon completion, the permit holder shall notify in writing the
date of completion. If additional time beyond the one year is needed for
completion, the permit holder may apply to the city and upon a satisfactory
showing of need, the city may grant an extension of time. If an extension is
granted, it shall be for a definite period and the city shall issue an
extension permit. Extensions shall only be granted in cases where the permit
holder shows that good faith efforts were made to complete the land reclamation
operation within the allotted one-year period and that failure to complete the
operation was due to circumstances beyond the permit holder's control, such as
teamster's strike, unusually inclement weather, illness or other valid and
reasonable excuse for noncompletion. In the event request for an extension is
denied, the permit holder shall be allowed a reasonable time to comply with the
other provisions of this subchapter relating to grading, leveling and seeding
or sodding. What constitutes "reasonable time" shall be determined by the City
Engineer after reviewing the premises.
      (2)   At the completion of land reclamation project in accordance with
the approved plan, the premises shall be graded, leveled and stabilized with
seeded or sodded with grass. The grade shall be the elevation with reference to
any abutting street or public way as the City Engineer shall prescribe in the
permit. The site shall also conform to the prerequisites as the City Engineer
may determine with reference to stormwater drainage runoff and stormwater
passage or flowage so that the excavation cannot become a source of, or an
aggravation to, stormwater drainage conditions in the area. The City Engineer
shall review the project following completion to determine if the applicant has
complied with the conditions imposed as part of the permit.
   (E)   Failure to comply. The city may, for failure of any person to comply
with any requirement made of them in writing under the provisions of the
permit, as promptly as same can reasonably be done, proceed to cause the
requirement to be complied with, and the cost of the work shall be taxed
against the property whereon the land reclamation is located, or the city may,
at its option, proceed to collect costs by an action against the person to whom
the permit has been issued, and their superiors if a security exists.
(Prior Code, § 11-27-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.403 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter is intended to cover the placement or removal of natural
materials on lands including the activity when carried on as a business; but
shall not apply to basement excavation, other excavation/grading which is
already covered by the Building Code or other regulations of the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-27-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
SEXUALLY ORIENTED USES
§ 152.415 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to ensure consistency with and conformance
to the provisions established by
Chapter 120 of the city code for all sexually oriented businesses.
(Prior Code, § 11-28-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.416 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   All sexually oriented businesses shall be established in conformance with
the provisions of
Chapter 120 of the city code for the opportunity to establish, as well as
control, sexually oriented uses within the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-28-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
MOTOR VEHICLE FUEL FACILITIES
§ 152.430 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish specific design and
operational performance standards for motor fuel facilities.
(Prior Code, § 11-30-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.431 MOTOR VEHICLE FUEL SALES.
   (A)   District application. Motor vehicle fuel sales shall be allowed in a
B-1, B-2 and I-1 District as a conditional use. The standards and requirements
for motor fuel sales shall be in addition to those which are imposed for other
uses and activities occurring on the property.
   (B)   Motor fuel facilities. Motor fuel facilities shall be installed in
accordance with state and city standards. Additionally, adequate space shall be
provided to access fuel pumps and allow maneuverability around the pumps.
Underground fuel storage tanks are to be positioned to allow adequate access by
motor fuel transports and unloading operations which do not conflict with
circulation, access and other activities on the site. Fuel pumps shall be
installed on pump islands.
   (C)   Area. A minimum lot area of 4,000 square feet and minimum lot frontage
of 150 feet. The City Council may exempt previously developed or previously
platted property from this requirement provided that the site is capable of
adequately and safely handling all activities and required facilities.
   (D)   Hours. Hours of operation shall be limited within the respective
zoning district as follows, unless extended by the City Council as part of the
conditional use permit.
 
B-1 District No limit except as may be required by the City Council
I-1 District No limit except as may be required by the City Council
 
   (E)   Architectural standards.
      (1)   The architectural appearance, scale and functional plan of the
building(s) and canopy shall be complementary and compatible with each other
and the existing buildings in the neighborhood setting.
      (2)   All sides of the principal and accessory structures are to have
essentially the same or a coordinated harmonious finish treatment in
conformance with §
152.208 of this chapter.
   (F)   Canopy. A protective canopy structure may be located over the pump
island(s), as an accessory structure. The canopy shall meet the following
performance standards.
      (1)   The edge of the canopy shall be 20 feet or more from the front and/
or side lot line, provided that adequate visibility both on-site and off-site
is maintained.
      (2)   The canopy shall not exceed 18 feet in height and shall provide 14
feet of clearance to accommodate a semitrailer truck passing underneath.
      (3)   The canopy fascia shall not exceed three feet in vertical height.
      (4)   The architectural design, colors and character of the canopy shall
be consistent with the principal building on the site.
      (5)   Signage may be allowed on a detached canopy in lieu of wall signage
on the principal structure, provided that:
         (a)   The individual canopy sign does not exceed more than 20% of the
canopy facade facing a public right-of-way; and
         (b)   The canopy fascia shall not be illuminated, except for permitted
canopy signage.
      (6)   Canopy posts/sign posts shall not obstruct traffic or the safe
operation of the gas pumps.
   (G)   Pump islands. Pump islands shall comply with the following performance
standards.
      (1)   Pump islands shall be elevated six inches above the traveled
surface of the site.
      (2)   All pump islands shall be set at least 30 feet back from any
property line. Additionally, the setback between the pump islands curb face
shall be at least 24 feet.
   (H)   Dust control and drainage.
      (1)   The entire site other than taken up by a building, structure or
plantings shall be surfaced with asphalt, concrete, cobblestone or paving
brick. Plans for surfacing and drainage shall be subject to approval of the
City Engineer.
      (2)   Drainage from all fueling areas shall be directed to an oil/grit
separator. Minimum design standards for the oil/grit separator shall include
the following:
         (a)   A minimum of 400 cubic feet of permanent pool storage capacity
per acre of drainage area;
         (b)   A minimum pool depth of four feet; and
         (c)   A minimum oil containment capacity of 800 gallons.
      (3)   All spills shall be cleaned up in a prompt manner. Spills of five
gallons or more shall be reported immediately to the State Pollution Control
Agency (MPCA).
   (I)   Landscaping. For uses established after the effective date of this
subchapter, the following requirements shall apply.
      (1)   At least 25% of the lot, parcel or tract of land used exclusively
for the gas sales facility shall remain as a grass plot, including trees,
shrubbery, plantings or fencing and shall be landscaped. Required minimum green
area should be emphasized in the front and side yards abutting streets or
residential property.
      (2)   At the boundaries of the lot, the following landscape area shall be
required.
         (a)   From side and rear property lines, an area of not less than five
feet wide shall be landscaped in compliance with §
152.279 of this chapter.
         (b)   From all road rights-of-way, an area of not less than 15 feet
wide shall be landscaped in compliance with §
152.278 of this chapter.
         (c)   Where lots abut residentially zoned property, a buffer yard of
not less than 20 feet wide shall be landscaped and screened in compliance with
§
152.279 of this chapter.
         (d)   The property owner shall be responsible for maintenance of all
landscaping, including within the boulevard.
   (J)   Exterior lighting. The lighting shall be accomplished in a way as to
have no direct source of light visible from adjacent land in residential use or
from the public right-of-way and shall be in compliance with §
152.187 of this chapter. A comprehensive lighting plan shall be submitted as
part of the conditional use permit application, and shall be subject to the
following performance standards.
      (1)   Canopy lighting. Canopy lighting shall only be permitted under the
canopy structure and consist of canister spotlights recessed into the canopy.
No portion of the light source or fixture may extend below the bottom face of
the canopy. Total canopy illumination below the canopy may not exceed 115 foot
candles at ground level.
      (2)   Perimeter lighting. Lighting at the periphery of the site and
building shall be directed downward and individual lights shall not exceed 15
foot candles at ground level.
      (3)   Illumination. Maximum site illumination shall not exceed four-
tenths foot candle at ground level when measured at any boundary line with an
adjoining residential property or any public property.
      (4)   Building and/or canopy fascia. Except for permitted wall signage
the building and/or canopy fascia shall not be illuminated.
   (K)   Circulation and loading. The site design shall accommodate adequate
turning radius and vertical clearance for a semitrailer truck. Designated
loading areas must be exclusive of off-street parking stalls and drive aisles.
A site plan shall be provided to illustrate adequate turning radius, using
appropriate engineering templates.
   (L)   Parking.
      (1)   Parking spaces shall be calculated solely based upon the use and
the square footage of the principal building.
      (2)   Parking spaces shall be screened from abutting residential
properties in compliance with §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter.
   (M)   Pedestrian traffic. An internal site pedestrian circulation system
shall be defined and appropriate provisions made to protect those areas from
encroachments by parked cars or moving vehicles. In front of the principal
structure, the pedestrian sidewalk shall be a minimum of five feet wide and
clear of any obstacle or impediment.
   (N)   Noise. Public address system shall not be audible at any property
line. Playing of music or advertisement from the public address system is
prohibited. Noise control shall be required as regulated in §
152.191 of this chapter.
   (O)   Outside storage, sales and service. No outside storage or sales shall
be allowed, except as follows.
      (1)   Public phones may be located on-site as long as they do not
interrupt on-site traffic circulation and are not located in a yard abutting
residentially zoned property.
      (2)   Propane sales limited to 20-pound capacity tanks may be located
outside provided the propane tanks are secured in a locker and meet all State
Uniform Building and Fire Codes.
      (3)   A compressed air service area may be located on-site as long as it
does not interrupt on-site traffic circulation.
      (4)   Existing outside storage, sales and service of items existing as of
the effective date of this chapter, other than those items listed in this
division shall be removed within a period of five years from that effective
date.
   (P)   Litter control. The operation shall be responsible for litter control
on the subject property, which is to occur on a daily basis. Trash receptacles
must be provided at a convenient location on-site to facilitate litter control.
   (Q)   Signs. All other signing and informational or visual communication
devices shall be in compliance with §§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter.
   (R)   Additional stipulations. All conditions pertaining to a specific site
are subject to change when the Council, upon investigation in relation to a
formal request finds that the general health, safety and welfare can be served
as well or better by modifying or expanding the conditions set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 11-30-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.432 TRUCK STOPS.
   (A)   District application. Truck stop uses may be allowed within the I-
1 and I-2 Districts subject to approval of a conditional use permit.
   (B)   Performance standards. A truck stop may be allowed provided as
follows.
      (1)   Adjacent to residential districts. Truck stops shall not be
permitted on lots that abut residentially zoned property.
      (2)   Area. A minimum lot area of five acres and minimum lot frontage of
300 feet. The City Council may exempt previously developed or previously
platted property from this requirement provided that the site is capable of
adequately and safely handling all activities and required facilities.
      (3)   Location. Truck stops shall be located on parcels abutting a
principal arterial roadway.
      (4)   Installation standards. Truck stops shall be installed in
accordance with state and city standards. Additionally, adequate space shall be
provided to access gas pumps and allow maneuverability around the pumps.
Underground fuel storage tanks are to be positioned to allow adequate access by
motor fuel transports and unloading operations which do not conflict with
circulation, access and other activities on the site. Fuel pumps shall be
installed on pump islands.
      (5)   Architectural standards.
         (a)   The architectural appearance, scale and functional plan of the
building(s) and canopy shall be complementary and compatible with each other
and the existing buildings in the neighborhood setting.
         (b)   All sides of the principal and accessory structures are to have
essentially the same or a coordinated harmonious finish treatment in
conformance with §
152.208 of this chapter.
      (6)   Canopy. A protective canopy structure may be located over the pump
island(s) as a permitted accessory structure. The canopy shall meet the
following performance standards.
         (a)   The edge of the canopy shall be 70 feet or more from the front
and/or side lot line, provided that adequate visibility both on-site and off-
site is maintained.
         (b)   The canopy shall not exceed 18 feet in height and shall provide
14 feet of clearance to accommodate a semitrailer truck from passing
underneath.
         (c)   The canopy fascia shall not exceed three feet in vertical
height.
         (d)   The architectural design, colors and character of the canopy
shall be consistent with the principal building on the site.
         (e)   Signage may be allowed on a detached canopy in lieu of wall
signage on the principal structure, provided that:
            1.   The individual canopy sign does not exceed more than 20% of
the canopy facade facing a public right-of-way; and
            2.   The canopy fascia shall not be illuminated, except for
permitted canopy signage.
         (f)   Canopy posts/sign posts shall not obstruct traffic or the safe
operation of the gas pumps.
      (7)   Pump islands. Pump islands shall be elevated six inches above the
traveled surface of the site. Pump islands must be set at least 70 feet back
from any property line. Setback between pump island curb face shall be
sufficient for the servicing and maneuvering of semi-trucks with trailers.
      (8)   Dust control and drainage. The entire site other than taken up by a
building, structure or plantings shall be surfaced with asphalt, concrete,
cobblestone or paving brick. Plans for surfacing and drainage shall be subject
to approval of the City Engineer. Drainage from all fueling areas shall be
directed to an oil/grit separator. Minimum design standards for the oil/grit
separator shall include the following:
         (a)   A minimum of 400 cubic feet of permanent pool storage capacity
per acre of drainage area;
         (b)   A minimum pool depth of four feet;
         (c)   A minimum oil containment capacity of 800 gallons; and
         (d)   Minimum maintenance/inspection of two times per year and/or
after measurable spill events. A measurable spill shall be as defined by the
State Pollution Control Agency (MPCA). A measurable spill must be reported to
the MPCA.
      (9)   Landscaping.
         (a)   At least 25% of the lot, parcel or tract of land used
exclusively for the gas sales facility shall remain as a grass plot, including
trees, shrubbery, plantings or fencing and shall be landscaped. Required
minimum green area should be emphasized in the front and side yards abutting
streets or residential property.
         (b)   At the boundaries of the lot, the following landscape area shall
be required.
            1.   From side and rear property lines, an area of not less than
five feet shall be landscaped in compliance with §
152.279 of this chapter.
            2.   From all road rights-of-way, an area of not less than 15 feet
shall be landscaped in compliance with §
152.278 of this chapter.
            3.   The property owner shall be responsible for maintenance of all
landscaping, including within the boulevard.
      (10)   Exterior lighting. The lighting shall be accomplished in a way as
to have no direct source of light visible from adjacent land in residential use
or from the public right-of-way and shall be in compliance with §
152.187 of this chapter. A comprehensive lighting plan shall be submitted as
part of the conditional use permit application, and shall be subject to the
following performance standards.
         (a)   Canopy lighting shall only be permitted under the canopy
structure and consist of canister spotlights recessed into the canopy. No
portion of the light source or fixture may extend below the bottom face of the
canopy. Total canopy illumination below the canopy may not exceed 115 foot
candles at ground level.
         (b)   Lighting at the periphery of the site and building shall be
directed downward and individual lights shall not exceed 15 foot candles at
ground level.
         (c)   Maximum site illumination shall not exceed one foot candle at
ground level when measured at any boundary line with an adjoining residentially
zoned property or public property.
         (d)   Except for permitted wall signage, the building and/or canopy
fascia shall not be illuminated.
      (11)   Access. Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of conflict
with through traffic movement and shall comply with §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter.
      (12)   Circulation. The site design shall accommodate adequate turning
radius and vertical clearance for a semitrailer truck. A site plan shall be
provided to illustrate adequate turning radius, using appropriate engineering
templates.
      (13)   Parking.
         (a)   Parking for motor fuel service shall be in addition to that
required for other uses on the site.
         (b)   Parking spaces shall be determined on an individual basis by the
City Council. Factors to be considered in the determination shall include
(without limitation) size of building, type of use, number of employees,
expected volume and turnover of customer traffic and expected frequency and
number of delivery or service vehicles.
         (c)   Parking stalls for trucks and trailers shall be a minimum of 12
feet wide and 70 feet long, exclusive of drive aisles.
      (14)   Pedestrian traffic. An internal site pedestrian circulation system
shall be defined and appropriate provisions made to protect those areas from
encroachments by parked cars or moving vehicles. In front of the principal
structure, the pedestrian sidewalk shall be a minimum of five feet wide and
clear of any obstacle or impediment.
      (15)   Noise. Public address system shall not be audible at any property
line. Playing of music or advertisement from the public address system is
prohibited. Noise control shall be required as regulated in §
91.15 of the city code.
      (16)   Outside storage, sales and service. No outside storage or sales
shall be allowed, except as follows.
         (a)   Public phones may be located on-site as long as they do not
interrupt on-site traffic circulation and may not be located in a yard abutting
residentially zoned property.
         (b)   Propane sales limited to 20-pound capacity tanks may be located
outside as long as the propane tanks are secured in a locker and meet all State
Uniform Building and Fire Codes.
         (c)   A compressed air service area may be located on-site as long as
it does not interrupt on-site traffic circulation.
         (d)   Existing outside storage, sales and service of items existing on
the effective date of this chapter, other than those items listed in division
(B)(17) below shall be removed within a period of five years from the effective
date of this chapter.
      (17)   Litter control. The operation shall be responsible for litter
control on the subject property, which is to occur on a daily basis. Trash
receptacles must be provided at a convenient location on-site to facilitate
litter control.
      (18)   Signs. All signing and informational or visual communication
devices shall be in compliance with §§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter.
      (19)   Additional stipulations. All conditions pertaining to a specific
site are subject to change when the Council, upon investigation in relation to
a formal request, finds that the general welfare and public betterment can be
served as well or better by modifying or expanding the conditions set forth
herein.
(Prior Code, § 11-30-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
GENERAL ZONING DISTRICT PROVISIONS
§ 152.445 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   In order to classify, regulate and restrict the location of trade and
industry, and the location of buildings designated for specific uses, to
protect residential uses, to regulate and limit the height and bulk of
buildings hereafter erected or altered, to regulate and limit the intensity of
the use of lot areas, and to regulate and determine the areas of yards and open
space within and surrounding the buildings, the city is hereby divided into
zoning districts.
   (B)   The use, height and area regulations shall be uniform in each district
and the districts shall be known as follows.
Urban Reserve Districts
UR, Urban Reserve District
Residential Districts
R-E, Residential Estate District
R-1, Single-Family Residential District
R-2, Single-Family Residential District
R-3, Medium Density Residential District
R-4, High Density Residential District
R-M, Single-Family Manufactured Home Park District
R-B, Residential Business District
Business Districts
B-1, Central Business District
B-2, Highway Business District
Industrial Districts
I-1, Light Industrial District
I-2, Heavy Industrial District
Institutional Districts
INS, Institutional District
Special Districts
PUD, Planned Unit Development District
Environmental and Historic Protection Districts
FP, Floodplain Management District
W, Wetland Systems District
S, Shoreland Overlay District
HD, Historic Downtown Overlay District
BP, Bluff Protection Overlay District
 
(Prior Code, § 11-50-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.446 ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Zoning district boundary lines established by this chapter generally follow
lot lines, the centerlines of railroad rights-of-way, street rights-of-way,
watercourses or the corporate limit lines, all as they exist upon the effective
date of this chapter.
   (A)   Appeals concerning the exact location of a zoning district boundary
line shall be heard by the Council serving as the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (B)   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated by official
action by the city, the zoning district adjoining each side of the street,
alley or public way shall be automatically extended to the center of the
vacation and all area included in the vacation shall then and henceforth be
subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended districts.
   (C)   All streets, alleys, public ways and railroad rights-of-way, if not
otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be in the same zone as
the property in the most restrictive classification immediately abutting upon
alleys, streets, public ways or railroad rights-of-way. Where the centerline of
a street, alley, public way or railroad rights-of-way serves as a district
boundary, the zoning of these areas, unless otherwise specifically designated,
shall be deemed to be the same as that of the abutting property up to the
centerline.
   (D)   All areas within the corporate limits of the city which are under
water and which are not shown as included within any zone shall be subject to
all regulations of the zone which immediately adjoins the water area. If the
water area adjoins two or more zones, the boundaries of each zone shall be
construed to be extended into the water area in a straight line until they meet
the other district at the halfway point and/or to the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 11-50-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.447 ZONING MAP.
   The location and boundaries of the districts established by this chapter are
hereby set forth on the zoning map entitled Cannon Falls zoning map. The map
shall be on file with the Zoning Administrator, and hereinafter referred to as
the "zoning map." The map and all the notations, references and other
information shown thereon shall have the same force and effect as if fully set
forth herein and thereby made a part of this chapter by reference. It is the
responsibility of the Zoning Administrator to maintain the city zoning map and
amendments thereto shall be recorded on the map. The official city zoning map
shall be kept on file in the City Hall.
(Prior Code, § 11-50-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.448 ANNEXATIONS.
   All territory hereafter annexed to the city which is not shown on the zoning
map shall automatically, upon annexation, be classified within the UR District
and shall be subject to all regulations, notations, references and conditions
as are applicable to the District until a time that a determination may be made
as to the proper district classification for the territory and an amendment can
be made to that effect.
(Prior Code, § 11-50-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
UR, URBAN RESERVE DISTRICT
§ 152.460 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the UR, Urban Reserve District is to preserve a low density,
rural environment in a manner conducive to future urbanization. This district
is intended to function as a "holding zone" for future urban development,
preventing subdivisions of an urban density until a time as suitable
infrastructure can be provided.
(Prior Code, § 11-51-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.461 PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following uses are
permitted in a UR District:
   (A)   Farms, farmsteads, farming and agricultural related buildings and
structures, but not including animal feedlots, as defined by the State
Pollution Control Agency (MPCA);
   (B)   Hobby farms;
   (C)   Nurseries, greenhouses and tree farms, excluding retail sales;
   (D)   Public parks, playgrounds, recreational uses, wildlife areas and game
refuges;
   (E)   Residential care facilities serving six or fewer persons; and
   (F)   Single-family detached dwellings at a density of not more than one
dwelling unit per ten acres of land.
(Prior Code, § 11-51-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.462 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
permitted accessory uses in a UR District:
   (A)   Accessory operation and storage of vehicles, equipment and machinery
are customary and incidental to permitted, conditional, interim and
administrative uses allowed in this district;
   (B)   Boarding or renting of rooms to not more than two individuals per
dwelling unit;
   (C)   Daycare facilities serving 12 or fewer persons in a single-family
detached dwelling;
   (D)   Fences as regulated by §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter;
   (E)   Home offices;
   (F)   Keeping of animals subject to §§
152.315 through
152.319 of this chapter;
   (G)   Play and recreational facilities accessory to an existing permitted
use;
   (H)   Private garages, off-street parking and off-street loading as
regulated by §§
152.205 through
152.216 of this chapter;
   (I)   Recreational vehicles and equipment parking and storage as regulated
by §§
152.180 through
152.194 of this chapter;
   (J)   Roadside stands for sale of in season agricultural products planted
and completely grown on the premises;
   (K)   Secondary or accessory use antennas and satellites as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter;
   (L)   Signs as regulated by §§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter; and
   (M)   Tool houses, sheds and other structures for the storage of domestic
supplies and equipment.
(Prior Code, § 11-51-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.463 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
conditional uses in a UR District and require a conditional use permit based
upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §§
152.070 through
152.074 of this chapter:
   (A)   Bed and breakfast establishment, provided that:
      (1)   A maximum of four bed and breakfast units be established in the
structure;
      (2)   The facility shall have a state license (hotel and food) and comply
with Building and Fire Codes as may be required or applicable;
      (3)   The facility shall be owner or manager occupied;
      (4)   The principal structure shall have a minimum size of 1,500 gross
square feet and shall be located on a lot which meets the minimum lot size of
the district in which it is located;
      (5)   The bed and breakfast units are located within the principal
structure;
      (6)   Not more than one full-time person, who is not a resident of the
structure, shall be employed by the bed and breakfast facility;
      (7)   Dining and other facilities shall not be open to the general public
but shall be used exclusively by the registered guests and residents;
      (8)   Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided for the home plus
one off-street parking space for each bed and breakfast unit. Parking areas
shall be screened and landscaped pursuant to §
152.279 of this chapter;
      (9)   Not more than one identification sign not exceeding four square
feet in area may be attached to each wall which faces a street. The sign shall
be reflective of the architectural features of the structure and may not be
internally illuminated or lighted between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.; and
      (10)   Adequate lighting shall be provided between the principal
structure and the parking area for safety purposes. Any additional external
lighting is prohibited.
   (B)   Cemeteries or memorial gardens provided that:
      (1)   The use is public or semipublic;
      (2)   The use meets the minimum setback requirements for principal
structures; and
      (3)   The periphery of the site is fenced.
   (C)   Commercial feedlots provided that:
      (1)   All applicable rules of the State Pollution Control Agency are
complied with;
      (2)   Feedlot buildings for sheltering animals shall maintain a minimum
setback of 1,000 feet from any existing residential use;
      (3)   Manure application stockpiles shall maintain a setback of 1,000
feet from any existing residential use; and
      (4)   The provisions of §§
152.070 through
152.074 are considered and satisfactorily met.
   (D)   Commercial outdoor recreational areas limited to golf courses, driving
ranges, country clubs, tennis clubs, swimming pools provided that:
      (1)   The principal use, function or activity is open and outdoor in
character;
      (2)   Not more than 5% of the land area of the site shall be covered by
buildings or structures;
      (3)   All buildings shall maintain a minimum setback of 30 feet from any
lot line;
      (4)   Commercial activities limited to actual pro shops, restaurants,
cafés, taverns, equipment rental, banquet facilities, may be allowed as an
accessory use to the outdoor recreational uses; and
      (5)   Where the use abuts a residential zoning district, the property is
screened and landscaped in compliance with §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter.
   (E)   Commercial riding stables, dog kennels, animal hospitals and similar
uses provided that:
      (1)   Minimum lot size shall be ten acres;
      (2)   Any building in which animals are kept, whether roofed shelter or
enclosed structure, shall be located a distance of 300 feet from any lot line;
      (3)   The animals shall, at a minimum, be kept in an enclosed pen or
corral;
      (4)   All applicable State Pollution Control Agency rules are complied
with;
      (5)   All other applicable state and local regulations pertaining to
nuisance, health and safety conditions are complied with; and
      (6)   The provisions of §§
152.070 through
152.074 of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily met.
   (F)   Essential services involving transmission pipelines and transmission
or substation lines in excess of 35kV and up to 100kV, provided that the
applicable provisions of §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter are determined to be satisfied; and
   (G)   Governmental buildings and structures necessary for the health, safety
and general welfare of the city, provided that when abutting a residential use
in a residential zoning district, the property is screened and landscaped in
compliance with §
152.278 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-51-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.464 INTERIM USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are interim
uses in a UR District and require an interim use permit based upon procedures
set forth in and regulated by §§
152.085 through
152.089 of this chapter: special home occupations, as regulated by §§
152.295 through
152.300 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-51-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.465 USES BY ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following uses are
allowed by administrative permit in a UR District based upon procedures set
forth in and regulated by §§
152.115 through
152.118 of this chapter:
   (A)   Essential services, except transmission pipelines and transmission or
substation lines in excess of 35kV and up to 100kV, as regulated by §§
152.385 through
152.389 of this chapter;
   (B)   Home occupations, as regulated by §§
152.295 through
152.300 of this chapter;
   (C)   Personal wireless service antennas located upon a public or quasi-
public structure or existing tower as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter;
   (D)   Single satellite dish TVROs greater than one meter in diameter as
regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter; and
   (E)   Temporary structures as regulated by §§
152.205 through
152.216 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-51-6) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.466 LOT REQUIREMENTS AND SETBACKS.
   The following minimum requirements shall be observed in a UR District
subject to the additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth
in this chapter.
 
Lot area       10 acres
Lot depth      None
Lot width      250 feet
Setbacks
   Front yar30 feet
   Rear yard30 feet
   Side yard20 feet on each side or 30 feet on the side yard abutting a
               public right-of-way
 
(Prior Code, § 11-51-7) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.467 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   The following building requirements shall be observed in a UR District.
   (A)   All residences shall be limited to a maximum height of two and one-
half stories or 45 feet.
   (B)   Accessory structures shall be governed by §§
152.230 through
152.241 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-51-8) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
R-E, SINGLE-FAMILY ESTATE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.480 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the R-E, Single-Family Estate Residential District is to
provide for larger, municipal sewered lots in areas containing unique natural
features and amenities as a means of protecting the amenities and promoting
quality housing.
(Prior Code, § 11-52-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.481 PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
permitted uses in an R-E District:
   (A)   Public parks, playgrounds, recreational uses and directly related
buildings and structures;
   (B)   Residential facilities, as defined in §
152.021 of this chapter, licensed by the state and serving six or fewer
persons; and
   (C)   Single-family detached dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 11-52-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.482 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
permitted accessory uses in an R-E District:
   (A)   Accessory uses, buildings and structures customarily incidental and
directly related to the uses allowed as permitted, conditional, interim and
administrative permit in this section, subject to applicable regulation of this
chapter;
   (B)   Boarding or renting of rooms to not more than two individuals per
dwelling unit;
   (C)   Daycare facilities serving 12 or fewer persons in a single-family
detached dwelling;
   (D)   Fences as regulated by §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter;
   (E)   Home offices;
   (F)   Keeping of animals subject to §§
152.315 through
152.319 of this chapter;
   (G)   Swimming pools, sport courts and other recreational facilities,
accessory to an existing permitted use;
   (H)   Private garages, off-street parking and off-street loading as
regulated by §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter;
   (I)   Recreational vehicles and equipment parking and storage as regulated
by §§
152.180 through
152.194 of this chapter; and
   (J)   Secondary or accessory use antennas as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-52-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.483 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
conditional uses in an R-E District and require a conditional use permit based
upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §§
152.070 through
152.074 of this chapter:
   (A)   Bed and breakfast establishments, provided that:
      (1)   A maximum of four bed and breakfast units be established in the
structure;
      (2)   The facility shall have a state license (hotel and food) and comply
with Building and Fire Codes as may be required or applicable;
      (3)   The facility shall be owner or manager occupied;
      (4)   The principal structure shall have a minimum size of 1,500 gross
square feet and shall be located on a lot which meets the minimum lot size of
the district in which it is located;
      (5)   The bed and breakfast units are located within the principal
structure;
      (6)   Not more than one full-time person, who is not a resident of the
structure, shall be employed by the bed and breakfast facility;
      (7)   Dining and other facilities shall not be open to the general public
but shall be used exclusively by the registered guests and residents;
      (8)   Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided for the home plus
one off-street parking space for each bed and breakfast unit. Parking areas
shall be screened and landscaped pursuant to §
152.279 of this chapter;
      (9)   Not more than one identification sign not exceeding four square
feet in area may be attached to each wall which faces a street. The sign shall
be reflective of the architectural features of the structure and may not be
internally illuminated or lighted between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.; and
      (10)   Adequate lighting shall be provided between the principal
structure and the parking area for safety purposes. Any additional external
lighting is prohibited.
   (B)   Commercial outdoor recreational areas limited to golf courses, driving
ranges, country clubs, tennis clubs, swimming pools provided that:
      (1)   The principal use, function or activity is open and outdoor in
character;
      (2)   Not more than 5% of the land area of the site shall be covered by
buildings or structures;
      (3)   All buildings shall maintain a minimum setback of 30 feet from any
lot lines; and
      (4)   Commercial activities limited to actual pro shops, restaurants,
cafes, taverns, equipment rental, banquet facilities, may be allowed as an
accessory use to the outdoor recreational use.
   (C)   Daycare facilities serving 13 or more persons in a single-family
detached dwelling, provided that the use complies with the provisions of §§
152.370 through
152.372 of this chapter;
   (D)   Essential services involving transmission pipelines and transmission
or substation lines in excess of 35kV and up to 100kV, provided that the
applicable provisions of §§
152.385 through
152.389 are determined to be satisfied;
   (E)   Government buildings and public related utility buildings and
structures necessary for the health, safety and general welfare of the city,
provided that when abutting a residential use or a residential use district,
the property is screened and landscaped with §
152.278 of this chapter;
   (F)   Planned unit development as regulated by §§
152.150 through
152.153 of this chapter; and
   (G)   Public or semi-public recreational buildings and neighborhood or
community centers; public and private educational institutions limited to
elementary, junior high and senior high schools; and religious institutions
such as churches, chapels, temples and synagogues provided that:
      (1)   Side yards shall be double that required for the district, but no
greater than 30 feet;
      (2)   Adequate screening from abutting residential uses and landscaping
is provided in compliance with §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter; and
      (3)   Adequate off-street parking, loading and access is provided on the
site or on lots directly abutting or directly across a public street or alley
to the principal use in compliance with §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter and that the parking is adequately screened and
landscaped from surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-52-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.484 INTERIM USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are interim
uses in an R-E District and require an interim use permit based upon procedures
set forth in and regulated by §§
152.085 through
152.089 of this chapter:
   (A)   Model homes and sales centers; and
   (B)   Special home occupations, as regulated by §§
152.295 through
152.300 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-52-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.485 USES BY ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following uses are
allowed by administrative permit in an R-E District based upon procedures set
forth in and regulated by §§
152.115 through
152.118 of this chapter:
   (A)   Home occupations, as regulated by §§
152.295 through
152.300 of this chapter;
   (B)   Model homes as regulated by §§
152.205 through
152.216 of this chapter;
   (D)   Personal wireless service antennas located upon a public or quasi-
public structure or existing tower as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter; and
   (E)   Temporary structures as regulated by §§
152.205 through
152.216 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-52-6) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.486 LOT REQUIREMENTS AND SETBACKS.
   The following minimum requirements shall be observed in an R-E District
subject to additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in
this chapter.
 
Minimum lot area  22,000 square feet
Minimum lot depth 150 feet
Minimum lot width 100 feet
Minimum setbacks
   Front       30 feet
   Rear        30 feet
   Side        15 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 11-52-7) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.487 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   The following building requirements shall be observed in an R-E District.
   (A)   All residences shall be limited to a maximum height of two and one-
half stories or 35 feet.
   (B)   Accessory structures shall be governed by §§
152.230 through
152.241 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-52-8) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
R-1, SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.500 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the R-1, Single-Family Residential District is to allow for
low density single-family detached residential dwelling units and directly
related complementary uses.
(Prior Code, § 11-53-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.501 PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
permitted uses in an R-1 District:
   (A)   Public parks, playgrounds, recreational uses and directly related
buildings and structures;
   (B)   Residential facilities, licensed by the state, serving six or fewer
persons in a single-family detached dwelling; and
   (C)   Single-family detached dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 11-53-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.502 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
permitted accessory uses in an R-1 District:
   (A)   Accessory uses, buildings and structures customarily incidental and
directly related to the uses allowed as permitted, conditional, interim and
administrative permit in this subchapter, subject to applicable regulation of
this chapter;
   (B)   Boarding or renting of rooms to not more than two individuals per
dwelling unit;
   (C)   Daycare facilities serving 12 or fewer persons in a single-family
detached dwelling;
   (D)   Fences as regulated by §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter;
   (E)   Home offices;
   (F)   Keeping of animals subject to §§
152.315 through
152.319 of this chapter;
   (G)   Play and recreational facilities, accessory to an existing permitted
use;
   (H)   Private garages, off-street parking and off-street loading as
regulated by §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter;
   (I)   Recreational vehicles and equipment parking and storage as regulated
by §§
152.180 through
152.194 of this chapter;
   (J)   Secondary or accessory use antennas as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter; and
   (K)   Signs as regulated by §§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-53-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.503 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
conditional uses in an R-1 District and require a conditional use permit based
upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §§
152.070 through
152.074 of this chapter;
   (A)   Bed and breakfast establishments, provided that:
      (1)   A maximum of four bed and breakfast units be established in the
structure;
      (2)   The facility shall have a state license (hotel and food) and comply
with Building and Fire Codes as may be required or applicable;
      (3)   The facility shall be owner or manager occupied;
      (4)   The principal structure shall have a minimum size of 1,500 gross
square feet and shall be located on a lot which meets the minimum lot size of
the district in which it is located;
      (5)   The bed and breakfast units are located within the principal
structure;
      (6)   Not more than one full-time person, who is not a resident of the
structure, shall be employed by the bed and breakfast facility;
      (7)   Dining and other facilities shall not be open to the general public
but shall be used exclusively by the registered guests and residents;
      (8)   Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided for the home plus
one off-street parking space for each bed and breakfast unit. Parking areas
shall be screened and landscaped pursuant to §
152.279 of this chapter;
      (9)   Not more than one identification sign not exceeding four square
feet in area may be attached to each wall which faces a street. The sign shall
be reflective of the architectural features of the structure and may not be
internally illuminated or lighted between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.; and
      (10)   Adequate lighting shall be provided between the principal
structure and the parking area for safety purposes. Any additional external
lighting is prohibited.
   (B)   Essential services involving transmission pipelines and transmission
or substation lines in excess of 35kV and up to 100kV, provided that the
applicable provisions of §§
152.385 through
152.389 of this chapter are determined to be satisfied;
   (C)   Government buildings and public related utility buildings and
structures necessary for the health, safety and general welfare of the city,
provided that when abutting a residential use or a residential use district,
the property is screened and landscaped in compliance with §
152.278 of this chapter;
   (D)   Personal wireless service antennas not located on a public structure
or existing tower, provided that the applicable provisions of §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter are determined to be satisfied;
   (E)   Planned unit developments as regulated by §§
152.150 through
152.153 of this chapter; and
   (F)   Public or semi-public recreational buildings and neighborhood or
community centers; public and private educational institutions limited to
elementary, junior high and senior high schools; and religious institutions
such as churches, chapels, temples and synagogues provided that:
      (1)   Side yards shall be double that required for the district, but no
greater than 30 feet;
      (2)   Adequate screening from abutting residential uses and landscaping
is provided in compliance with §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter; and
      (3)   Adequate off-street parking, loading and access is provided on the
site or on lots directly abutting or directly across a public street or alley
to the principal use in compliance with §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter and that parking is adequately screened and landscaped
from surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-53-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.504 INTERIM USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are interim
uses in an R-1 District and require an interim use permit based upon procedures
set forth in and regulated by §§
152.085 through
152.089 of this chapter:
   (A)   Satellite TVROs greater than one meter in diameter as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter; and
   (B)   Special home occupations, as regulated by §§
152.295 through
152.300 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-53-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.505 USES BY ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following uses are
allowed by administrative permit in an R-1 District based upon procedures set
forth in and regulated by §§
152.115 through
152.118 of this chapter:
   (A)   Essential services, except transmission pipelines and transmission or
substation lines in excess of 35kV and up to 100kV, as regulated by §§
152.385 through
152.389 of this chapter;
   (B)   Home occupations, as regulated by §§
152.295 through
152.300 of this chapter;
   (C)   Model homes as regulated by §§
152.205 through
152.216 of this chapter;
   (D)   Personal wireless service antennas located upon a public or quasi-
public structure or existing tower as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter; and
   (E)   Temporary structures as regulated by §§
152.205 through
152.216 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-53-6) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.506 LOT REQUIREMENTS AND SETBACKS.
   The following minimum requirements shall be observed in an R-1 District
subject to additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in
this chapter.
Minimum lot area
   Corner lot  13,000 square feet
   Interior lot12,000 square feet
Minimum lot depth 120 feet
Minimum lot width
   Corner lot  100 feet
   Interior lot80 feet
Minimum setbacks
   Front       30 feet
   Rear        30 feet
   Side        15 feet or 30 feet on a side yard abutting a public right-of-
                  way
 
(Prior Code, § 11-53-7) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.507 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   The following building requirements shall be observed in an R-1 District:
   (A)   All residences shall be limited to a maximum height of two and one-
half stories or 35 feet;
   (B)   Dwelling unit floor area shall be governed by §
152.210 of this chapter;
   (C)   Accessory structures shall be governed by §§
152.230 through
152.241 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-53-8) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
R-2, SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.520 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the R-2, Single-Family Residential District is to allow for
low density single-family detached residential dwelling units and directly
related, complementary uses.
(Prior Code, § 11-54-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.521 PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
permitted uses in an R-2 District:
   (A)   Public parks, playgrounds, recreational uses and directly related
buildings and structures;
   (B)   Residential facilities, licensed by the state, serving six or fewer
persons in a single-family detached dwelling; and
   (C)   Single-family detached dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 11-54-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.522 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
permitted accessory uses in an R-2 District:
   (A)   Accessory uses, buildings and structures customarily incidental and
directly related to the uses allowed as permitted, conditional, interim and
administrative permit in this subchapter, subject to applicable regulation of
this chapter;
   (B)   Boarding or renting of rooms to not more than two individuals per
dwelling unit;
   (C)   Daycare facilities serving 12 or fewer persons in a single-family
detached dwelling;
   (D)   Fences as regulated by §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter;
   (E)   Home offices;
   (F)   Keeping of animals subject to §§
152.315 through
152.319 of this chapter;
   (G)   Play and recreational facilities, accessory to an existing permitted
use;
   (H)   Private garages, off-street parking and off-street loading as
regulated by §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter;
   (I)   Recreational vehicles and equipment parking and storage as regulated
by §§
152.180 through
152.194 of this chapter;
   (J)   Secondary or accessory use antennas as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter; and
   (K)   Signs as regulated by §§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-54-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.523 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
conditional uses in an R-2 District and require a conditional use permit based
upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §§
152.070 through
152.074 of this chapter.
   (A)   Bed and breakfast establishments, provided that:
      (1)   A maximum of four bed and breakfast units be established in the
structure;
      (2)   The facility shall have a state license (hotel and food) and comply
with Building and Fire Codes as may be required or applicable;
      (3)   The facility shall be owner or manager occupied;
      (4)   The principal structure shall have a minimum size of 1,500 gross
square feet and shall be located on a lot which meets the minimum lot size of
the district in which it is located;
      (5)   The bed and breakfast units are located within the principal
structure;
      (6)   Not more than one full-time person, who is not a resident of the
structure, shall be employed by the bed and breakfast facility;
      (7)   Dining and other facilities shall not be open to the general public
but shall be used exclusively by the registered guests and residents;
      (8)   Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided for the home plus
one off-street parking space for each bed and breakfast unit. Parking areas
shall be screened and landscaped pursuant to §
152.279 of this chapter;
      (9)   Not more than one identification sign not exceeding four square
feet in area may be attached to each wall which faces a street. The sign shall
be reflective of the architectural features of the structure and may not be
internally illuminated or lighted between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.; and
      (10)   Adequate lighting shall be provided between the principal
structure and the parking area for safety purposes. Any additional external
lighting is prohibited.
   (B)   Essential services involving transmission pipelines and transmission
or substation lines in excess of 35kV and up to 100kV, provided that the
applicable provisions of §§
152.385 through
152.389 of this chapter are determined to be satisfied;
   (C)   Government buildings and public related utility buildings and
structures necessary for the health, safety and general welfare of the city,
provided that when abutting a residential use or a residential use district,
the property is screened and landscaped in compliance with §
152.278 of this chapter;
   (D)   Personal wireless service antennas not located on a public structure
or existing tower, provided that the applicable provisions of §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter are determined to be satisfied;
   (E)   Planned unit developments as regulated by §§
152.150 through
152.153 of this chapter; and
   (F)   Public or semi-public recreational buildings and neighborhood or
community centers; public and private educational institutions limited to
elementary, junior high and senior high schools; and religious institutions
such as churches, chapels, temples and synagogues provided that:
      (1)   Side yards shall be double that required for the district, but no
greater than 30 feet;
      (2)   Adequate screening from abutting residential uses and landscaping
is provided in compliance with §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter; and
      (3)   Adequate off-street parking, loading and access is provided on the
site or on lots directly abutting or directly across a public street or alley
to the principal use in compliance with §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter and that the parking is adequately screened and
landscaped from surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-54-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.524 INTERIM USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are interim
uses in an R-2 District and require an interim use permit based upon procedures
set forth in and regulated by §§
152.085 through
152.089 of this chapter:
   (A)   Satellite TVROs greater than one meter in diameter as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter; and
   (B)   Special home occupations, as regulated by §§
152.295 through
152.300 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-54-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.525 USES BY ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following uses are
allowed by administrative permit in an R-2 District based upon procedures set
forth in and regulated by §§
152.115 through
152.118 of this chapter:
   (A)   Essential services, except transmission pipelines and transmission or
substation lines in excess of 35kV and up to 100kV, as regulated by §§
152.385 through
152.389 of this chapter;
   (B)   Home occupations, as regulated by §§
152.295 through
152.300 of this chapter;
   (C)   Model homes as regulated by §§
152.205 through
152.216 of this chapter;
   (D)   Personal wireless service antennas located upon a public or quasi-
public structure or existing tower as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter; and
   (E)   Temporary structures as regulated by §§
152.205 through
152.216 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-54-6) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.526 LOT REQUIREMENTS AND SETBACKS.
   The following minimum requirements shall be observed in an R-2 District
subject to additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in
this chapter.
Minimum lot area
   Corner lot                       10,000 square feet
   Interior lot                     9,000 square feet
Minimum lot depth                      120 feet
Minimum lot width
   Corner lot                       80 feet
   Interior lot                     70 feet
Minimum setbacks
   Front                            30 feet
   Rear                             30 feet
   Rear (detached accessory structur5 feet
   Rear (garage accessing alley)    See §
                                       152.237
   Side (detached accessory structur5 feet
                                       10 feet or 20 feet on a side yard
   Side (principal structure)       abutting a public right-of- way; 5 feet
                                       on garage side only when accommodating
                                       an attached garage
 
(Prior Code, § 11-54-7) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 271, passed 3-15-2007)
§ 152.527 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   The following building requirements shall be observed in an R-2 District:
   (A)   All residences shall be limited to a maximum height of two and one-
half stories or 35 feet;
   (B)   Dwelling unit floor area shall be governed by §
152.210 of this chapter; and
   (C)   Accessory structures shall be governed by §§
152.230 through
152.241 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-54-8) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
R-3, MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.540 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the R-3, Medium-Density Residential District is to establish
low to moderate density residential housing in single-family and two-family
residential dwelling units and directly related complementary uses.
(Prior Code, § 11-55-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.541 PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
permitted uses in the R-3 District:
   (A)   Public parks, playgrounds, recreational uses and directly related
buildings and structures;
   (B)   Residential facilities, licensed by the state, serving six or fewer
persons in a single-family detached dwelling;
   (C)   Single-family detached dwellings; and
   (D)   Two-family dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 11-55-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.542 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
permitted accessory uses in the R-3 District:
   (A)   Accessory uses, buildings and structures customarily incidental and
directly related to the uses allowed as permitted, conditional, interim and
administrative permit in this subchapter, subject to applicable regulation of
this chapter;
   (B)   Boarding or renting of rooms to not more than two individuals per
dwelling unit;
   (C)   Daycare facilities serving 12 or fewer persons in a single-family
dwelling unit;
   (D)   Fences as regulated by §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter;
   (E)   Home offices;
   (F)   Keeping of animals subject to §§
152.315 through
152.319 of this chapter;
   (G)   Play and recreational facilities, accessory to an existing permitted
use;
   (H)   Private garages and off-street parking and off-street loading as
regulated by §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter;
   (I)   Recreational vehicles and equipment parking and storage as regulated
by §§
152.180 through
152.194 of this chapter;
   (J)   Secondary or accessory use antennas as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter;
   (K)   Signs as regulated by §§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter; and
   (L)   Tool houses, sheds and other structures for the storage of domestic
supplies and equipment.
(Prior Code, § 11-55-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.543 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
conditional uses in an R-3 District and require a conditional use permit based
upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §§
152.070 through
152.074 of this chapter:
   (A)   Essential services involving transmission pipelines and transmission
or substation lines in excess of 35kV and up to 100kV, provided that the
applicable provisions of §§
152.385 through
152.389 of this chapter are determined to be satisfied;
   (B)   Government buildings and public related utility buildings and
structures necessary for the health, safety and general welfare of the city,
provided that when abutting a residential use or a residential use district,
the property is screened and landscaped in compliance with §
152.279 of this chapter;
   (C)   Personal wireless service antennas not located on a public structure
or existing tower, provided that the applicable provisions of §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter are determined to be satisfied; and
   (D)   Planned unit development residential, townhomes and quadraminiums as
regulated in §§
152.150 through
152.153 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-55-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.544 INTERIM USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are interim
uses in an R-3 District and require an interim use permit based upon procedures
set forth in and regulated by §§
152.085 through
152.089 of this chapter:
   (A)   Satellite TVROs greater than one meter in diameter as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter; and
   (B)   Special home occupations, as regulated by §§
152.295 through
152.300 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-55-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.545 USES BY ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following uses are
allowed by administrative permit in an R-3 District based upon procedures set
forth in and regulated by §§
152.115 through
152.118 of this chapter:
   (A)   Essential services, except transmission pipelines and transmission or
substation lines in excess of 35kV and up to 100kV, as regulated by §§
152.385 through
152.389 of this chapter;
   (B)   Home occupations, as regulated by §§
152.295 through
152.300 of this chapter;
   (C)   Model homes as regulated by §§
152.205 through
152.216 of this chapter;
   (D)   Personal wireless service antennas located upon a public or quasi-
public structure or existing tower as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter; and
   (E)   Temporary structures as regulated by §§
152.205 through
152.216 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-55-6) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.546 LOT REQUIREMENTS AND SETBACKS.
   The following minimum requirements shall be observed in an R-3 District
subject to additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in
this chapter.
Double frontage lots                   155 feet
Minimum lot area
   Single-family                    9,000 square feet
   Townhouse or quadraminium        6,000 square feet per unit
   Two-family                       10,000 square feet base lot; 5,000
                                       square feet per unit
Minimum lot depth
   Single-family                    135 feet
   Two-family                       135 feet
   All other uses                   135 feet
Minimum lot width
   Single-family
      Corner lot                 70 feet
      Interior lot               60 feet
   Townhouse or quadraminium
      Base lot                   Not less than 120 feet
      Unit lot                   Not less than 24 feet per unit
   Two-family
      Corner lot                 90 feet
      Interior lot               80 feet
Setbacks
   Base lot
      Front                      25 feet
      Rear                       20 feet except 25 feet for double
                                       frontage lots
                                       10 feet except 20 feet for the side yard
      Side                       of a corner lot abutting a public right-
                                       of-way
                                       Side yard setback requirements shall not
      Zero lot line              be applied to a common wall of a two-
                                       family, townhouse, quadraminium or
                                       multiple-family dwelling unit
   Single-family lot
      Front                      25 feet
      Rear                       20 feet except 25 feet for double
                                       frontage lots
   Rear (detached accessory structur5 feet
   Rear (garage accessing alley)    See §
                                       152.237
   Side (detached accessory structur5 feet
                                       10 feet except 20 feet for the side yard
      Side (principal structure) of a corner lot abutting a public right-
                                       of-way; 5 feet on garage side only when
                                       accommodating an attached garage
 
(Prior Code, § 11-55-7) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 271, passed 3-15-2007)
§ 152.547 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   The following building requirements shall be observed in an R-3 District.
   (A)   All residences shall be limited to a maximum height of two and one-
half stories or 35 feet.
   (B)   Dwelling unit floor area shall be governed by §
152.210 of this chapter.
   (C)   Accessory structures shall be governed by §§
152.230 through
152.241 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-55-8) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.548 COMMON AREAS.
   The following minimum requirements shall be observed in the R-3 District
governing common areas.
   (A)   Ownership. All common areas within an R-3 development including, but
not limited to, open space, wetlands, greenways, drainage ponds, driveways,
private drives, parking areas, play areas and the like shall be owned in one of
the following manners:
      (1)   Condominium ownership pursuant to M.S. § 515A.1-106, as it may be
amended from time to time; and
      (2)   Townhome and quadraminium subdivision common areas shall be owned
by the owners of each unit lot, with each owner of a unit having an equal and
undivided interest in the common area.
   (B)   Homeowners' association. A homeowners' association shall be
established for all quadraminium, three- and four-plex multiple-family and
townhome developments within the R-3 District, subject to review and approval
of the City Attorney and shall be responsible for all exterior building
maintenance, approval of any exterior architectural modifications, landscaping,
snow clearing and regular maintenance of private driveways and other areas
owned in common when there is more than one individual property owner having
interest within the development.
(Prior Code, § 11-55-9) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.549 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Unit size. The size of dwelling units shall comply with the minimums
established in §
152.210 of this chapter.
   (B)   Unit width. The minimum width of a dwelling unit within the R-
3 District shall be 24 feet.
   (C)   Unit construction.
      (1)   Subdivision requests. Building elevations and floor plans shall be
furnished with subdivision requests illustrating exterior building material and
colors to demonstrate compliance with §§
152.205 through
152.216 of this chapter. Building floor plans shall identify the interior
storage space within each unit.
      (2)   Decks or porches. Provision shall be made for possible decks,
porches or additions as part of the initial dwelling unit building plans. The
unit lot shall be configured and sized to include decks or porches.
      (3)   Minimum overhang. In case of gable roof, a minimum 18-inch roof
overhang or soffit shall be required for all residential structures.
      (4)   Exterior building finish. The exterior of townhome dwelling units
shall include a variation in building materials which are to be distributed
throughout the building facades and coordinated into the architectural design
of the structure facing the public right-of-way to create an architecturally
balanced appearance. A minimum of 25% of the area of all building facades of a
structure shall have an exterior finish of brick, stucco and/or natural or
artificial stone.
   (D)   Garages.
      (1)   Each dwelling unit shall include an attached garage that shall
comply with the following minimum size standards.
 
For dwellings with basements    440 square feet
For dwellings without basements 540 square feet
 
      (2)   Garages shall be a minimum of 20 feet in width.
   (E)   Outside storage. Outside storage shall be allowed only in designated
areas which are screened in accordance with §
152.279 of this chapter and under the ownership of the property owners'
association subject to other applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Utilities.
      (1)   Underground or exterior service. All utilities serving an R-
3 subdivision, including telephone, electricity, gas and telecable shall be
installed underground. Exterior utility meters and/or fixtures shall be located
in interior side or rear yards when possible and shall be screened from view of
adjacent properties and the public right-of-way.
      (2)   Public utility service. Separate public utility services shall be
provided to each unit unless exempted by the City Engineer.
      (3)   Water connection. Individual unit shut-off valves shall be
provided.
      (4)   Sewer connection. Where more than one unit is served by a sanitary
sewer service, all maintenance and cleaning shall be the responsibility of the
property owners' association or owners.
   (G)   Streets. All streets shall be public and shall comply with the design
standards and specifications as governed by the city's subdivision regulations.
   (H)   Drives.
      (1)   Dead-end private driveways shall serve a maximum of two structures
or six units per side.
      (2)   Private drives shall be under the ownership and control of the
property owners' association who shall be responsible for the maintenance,
repair and replacement of surfacing. The association shall maintain a capital
improvement program for the driveways under its ownership.
      (3)   Provisions for adequate turnaround shall be made at the terminus of
all private drives.
      (4)   Private drives shall include plans and areas for snow storage.
   (I)   Guest parking. At minimum, one-half of guest parking spaces per unit
shall be provided in an off-street parking lot or private drive. The design of
the off-street parking lot shall conform to requirements of §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter.
   (J)   Landscaping/screening and lighting. Detailed landscaping/screening and
lighting plans shall be provided and implemented pursuant to §§
152.180 through
152.194 and
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter.
   (K)   Open space/recreational use. In addition to the park dedication
requirements stipulated by the city's subdivision regulations, a minimum of 10%
of the gross development project area shall be in usable open space and
recreational use for the project residents. These areas shall be specifically
designed for both the active and passive use by the project residents and may
include swimming pools, trails, nature areas, tot lots, exercise equipment,
saunas and the like. The areas and facilities shall be private, except in those
cases where the city agrees to assume responsibility for all or a portion of
the recreational space.
   (L)   Irrigation. All pervious landscaped areas shall be irrigated subject
to plan submission, review and approval by the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 11-55-10) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
R-4, HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.560 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the R-4, High Density Residential District is to provide for
high density housing in multiple-family structures and directly related
complementary uses as guided by the Comprehensive Plan.
(Prior Code, § 11-56-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.561 PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
permitted uses in the R-4 District:
   (A)   Essential services;
   (B)   Multiple-family dwellings;
   (C)   Public parks, playfields, recreational uses and directly related
buildings and structures; and
   (D)   Single-family and two-family dwellings subject to compliance with yard
and setback requirements and accessory uses and structure requirements
applicable to the R-3 District.
(Prior Code, § 11-56-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 271, passed 3-15-2007)
§ 152.562 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
permitted accessory uses in the R-4 District:
   (A)   Accessory uses, buildings and structures customarily incidental and
directly related to the uses allowed as permitted, conditional, interim and
administrative permit in this subchapter, subject to applicable regulation of
this chapter;
   (B)   Fences as regulated by §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter;
   (C)   Home offices;
   (D)   Play and recreational facilities, accessory to an existing permitted
use;
   (E)   Secondary or accessory use antennas as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter; and
   (F)   Signs as regulated by §§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-56-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.563 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
conditional uses in an R-4 District and require a conditional use permit based
upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §§
152.070 through
152.074 of this chapter:
   (A)   Elderly (senior citizen) housing provided that:
      (1)   The provisions of §
152.210(C) of this chapter are being met;
      (2)   Not more than 20% of the occupants may be persons 55 years of age
or under (spouse of a person over 55 years of age or caretakers and the like);
      (3)   To continue to qualify for the elderly housing classification, the
owner or agency shall annually file with the Zoning Administrator a certified
copy of a monthly resume of occupants of the multiple dwelling, listing the
number of tenants by age and clearly identifying and setting forth the
relationship of all occupants 60 years of age or under to qualified tenants or
to the building;
      (4)   There is adequate off-street parking in compliance with §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter;
      (5)   Parking areas are screened and landscaped from view of surrounding
and abutting residential districts in compliance with §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter;
      (6)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices shall
be in compliance with §§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter;
      (7)   Elevator service is provided to each floor level; and
      (8)   Usable open space at a minimum of 20% of the gross lot area.
   (B)   Essential services involving transmission pipelines and transmission
or substation lines in excess of 35kV and up to 100kV, provided that the
applicable provisions of §§
152.385 through
152.389 of this chapter are determined to be satisfied;
   (C)   Government buildings and public related utility buildings and
structures necessary for the health, safety and general welfare of the city,
provided that when abutting a residential use or a residential use district,
the property is screened and landscaped in compliance with §
152.279 of this chapter;
   (D)   Personal wireless service antennas not located on a public structure
or existing tower, provided that the applicable provisions of §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter are determined to be satisfied;
   (E)   Planned unit development residential, townhomes and quadraminiums as
regulated by §§
152.150 through
152.153 of this chapter;
   (F)   Multiple-family dwelling structures provided that:
      (1)   The provisions of §
152.210(C) of this chapter are being met;
      (2)   The site of the principal use and its related parking is served by
an arterial or collector street;
      (3)   There is adequate off-street parking in compliance with §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter;
      (4)   Parking areas are screened and landscaped from view of surrounding
and abutting residential districts in compliance with §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter;
      (5)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices shall
be in compliance with §§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter; and
      (6)   Usable open space at a minimum of 20% of the gross lot area.
   (G)   Lodging room establishments provided that:
      (1)   Lodging room establishments are limited to no more than five
lodging rooms with sleeping and living quarters. Each room that provides
accommodations approved for sleeping by guests shall be counted as one lodging
room. A lodging room must satisfy applicable requirements of the Building Code;
      (2)   (a)   In addition to providing overnight accommodations, lodging
room establishments may also provide for small group gatherings of not more
than 15 persons for the purpose of hosting social and recreational events such
as reunions, educational forums, retreats and for quilting, scrap-booking and
other similar activities;
         (b)   If the capacity of the proposed lodging room establishment, the
building or the grounds, is insufficient to accommodate the maximum allowable
occupancy of 15 persons, then a lesser number of persons may be approved; and
         (c)   The owner of an approved lodging room establishment is
responsible for notifying the city no less than 72 hours prior to hosting an
event that an event will be held. The notification must include a general
description of the event itself, the anticipated number of guests and the
planned date(s).
      (3)   The owner of a lodging room establishment may be permitted to sell
goods and materials that are related to and required by authorized events, but
only to registered guests and participants in the authorized event;
      (4)   The lodging room establishment may provide cooking facilities only
for the exclusive use of registered guests and participants in the authorized
event and provided that the preparation of food does not require a permit from
the State Department of Health or similar regulatory entity;
      (5)   One identification sign of no more than four square feet is
allowable. The sign must be located on the structure itself and be designed to
be consistent with the character and architectural features of the building;
      (6)   A minimum of one off-street parking space for each lodging room
shall be provided on the property, screened and landscaped pursuant to
applicable provisions of §
152.279 of this chapter. In the event that five or more off-street parking
spaces are provided, the parking area must be screened and landscaped in
accordance with applicable provisions of §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter. In no instance shall any lodging room establishment
provide more than seven off-street parking spaces on the property;
      (7)   (1)   If the lodging room establishment is not owner-occupied, the
owner is nonetheless responsible for the management and care of the property
and operations. During those periods that a registered guest or guests occupy
the property, the owner or a designated caretaker approved by the city must be
available to address and resolve public complaints relating to conduct of the
guests; and
         (2)   The owner is responsible for registering with the city the name,
phone number and e-mail address of the caretaker that will assume
responsibility for management of the property in their absence. The designated
care taker must reside in the city and agree to assume and accept management
responsibility on behalf of the owner.
      (8)   The owner must secure, maintain and provide evidence of any license
(s) that may be required in the state to operate a facility that is permitted
by the city pursuant to these provisions;
      (9)   At those times as the lodging room establishment is hosting an
event, not more than one person shall be employed to assist the owner with
performing tasks that may be required to operate the facility or the event; and
      (10)   At least annually, the Zoning Administrator will review the
performance history of the lodging room establishment. In the event that the
lodging room establishment has not operated in accordance with the approved
terms and conditions of the conditional use permit, the Planning Commission may
recommend and the City Council may approve revocation of the conditional use
permit for cause.
(Prior Code, § 11-56-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 302, passed 2-16-2010)
§ 152.564 INTERIM USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are interim
uses in an R-4 District and require an interim use permit based upon procedures
set forth in and regulated by §§
152.085 through
152.089 of this chapter:
   (A)   Satellite TVROs greater than one meter in diameter as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter; and
   (B)   Special home occupations, as regulated by §§
152.295 through
152.300.
(Prior Code, § 11-56-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.565 USES BY ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following uses are
allowed by administrative permit in an R-4 District based upon procedures set
forth in and regulated by §§
152.115 through
152.118 of this chapter:
   (A)   Essential services, except transmission pipelines and transmission or
substation lines in excess of 35kV and up to 100kV, as regulated by §§
152.385 through
152.389 of this chapter;
   (B)   Home occupations, as regulated by §§
152.295 through
152.300 of this chapter; and
   (C)   Personal wireless service antennas as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-56-6) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.566 DEVELOPMENT DENSITY.
   The maximum development density shall be determined by the following lot
area per unit standards.
 
Elderly senior housing    1,000 square feet per unit
Multiple-family dwellings 2,500 square feet per unit
Townhouse, quadraminium   4,000 square feet per unit
 
(Prior Code, § 11-56-7) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.567 LOT REQUIREMENTS AND SETBACKS.
   The following minimum requirements shall be observed in an R-4 District
subject to additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in
this chapter.
 
Lot width           120 feet
Setbacks
   Base Lot
      Front   30 feet
      Rear    25 feet
      Side    15 feet except 30 feet for the side yard of a corner lot
                    abutting a public right-of-way
                    Side yard setback requirements shall not be applied to a
      Zero lotcommon wall of a two-family, townhouse, quadraminium or
                    multiple-family dwelling unit
 
(Prior Code, § 11-56-8) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.568 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   The following building requirements shall be observed in an R-4 District.
   (A)   All residences shall be limited to a maximum building height of three
stories or 45 feet, however, building heights in excess of the prescribed
standard may be permitted through a conditional use permit, provided that the
requirements of §
152.207(A) of this chapter are met.
   (B)   Dwelling unit floor area shall be governed by §
152.210 of this chapter.
   (C)   Accessory structures shall be governed by §§
152.230 through
152.241 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-56-9) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.569 COMMON AREAS.
   The following minimum requirements shall be observed in the R-4 District
governing common areas.
   (A)   Ownership. All common areas within an R-4 development including, but
not limited to, open space, wetlands, greenways, drainage ponds, driveways,
private drives, parking areas, play areas and the like shall be owned in one of
the following manners:
      (1)   Condominium ownership pursuant to M.S. § 515A.1-106, as it may be
amended from time to time; and
      (2)   Two-family, quadraminium and townhome subdivision common areas
shall be owned by the owners of each unit lot, with each owner of a unit having
an equal and undivided interest in the common area;
   (B)   Homeowners' association. A homeowners' association shall be
established for all townhome developments within the R-4 District, subject to
review and approval of the City Attorney, and shall be responsible for all
exterior building maintenance, approval of any exterior architectural
modifications, landscaping, snow clearing and regular maintenance of private
driveways and other areas owned in common when there is more than one
individual property owner having interest within the development.
(Prior Code, § 11-56-10) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.570 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Design and construction standards specified in §
152.208 of this chapter are met.
   (B)   The exterior of multiple-family dwelling structures shall include a
variation in building materials which are to be distributed throughout the
building facades and coordinated into the architectural design of the structure
to create an architecturally balanced appearance. In addition, multiple-family
dwelling structures shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   A minimum of 25% of the combined area of all building facades
facing a public right-of-way of a structure shall have an exterior finish of
brick, stucco and/or natural or artificial stone; and
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, the area of the building facade
shall not include area devoted to windows, entrance doors, garage doors or roof
areas.
(Prior Code, § 11-56-11) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
R-M, SINGLE-FAMILY MANUFACTURED HOME PARK DISTRICT
§ 152.585 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the R-M, Single-Family Manufactured Home Park District is to
provide a separate district for manufactured home parks, distinct from other
residential uses in areas guided for low density residential land uses by the
Comprehensive Plan.
(Prior Code, § 11-57-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.586 PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
permitted uses in an R-M District: all permitted uses allowed in the R-
1 District.
(Prior Code, § 11-57-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.587 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
permitted accessory uses in an R-M District: all permitted accessory uses
allowed in the R-1 District with the following exceptions:
   (A)   Boarding or renting of rooms to not more than two individuals per
dwelling unit; and
   (B)   Daycare facilities serving 12 or fewer persons in a single-family
detached dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 11-57-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.588 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
conditional uses in an R-M District and require a conditional use permit based
upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §§
152.070 through
152.074 of this chapter:
   (A)   Essential services involving transmission pipelines and transmission
or substation lines in excess of 35kV and up to 100kV, provided that the
applicable provisions of §§
152.385 through
152.389 of this chapter are determined to be satisfied;
   (B)   Government buildings and public related utility buildings and
structures necessary for the health, safety and general welfare of the city,
provided that when abutting a residential use or a residential use district,
the property is screened and landscaped in compliance with §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter;
   (C)   Manufactured home parks provided that:
      (1)   Information to be submitted. In addition to the information
required by §§
152.130 through
152.138 of this chapter, the following information shall be submitted for
approval:
         (a)   Plans for any and all structures (i.e., central community
building, storm shelter);
         (b)   Detailed description of maintenance procedures and grounds
supervision for common areas;
         (c)   If applicable, provide development phasing details;
         (d)   A copy of the guidelines and rules proposed by the manufactured
home park operator regulating the building type and construction of building
additions, accessory buildings, decks and similar type construction; and
         (e)   Other information as required or implied by these manufactured
home park standards or requested by public officials.
      (2)   General provisions for all manufactured home parks.
         (a)   Area. All land area shall be:
            1.   Adequately drained;
            2.   Landscaped to control dust; and
            3.   Clean and free from refuse, garbage, rubbish or debris.
         (b)   Recreational camping. No portion of a manufactured home park
shall be used as a recreational camping area.
         (c)   Public access. Public access to manufactured housing parks shall
be as approved by the city.
         (d)   Fences. Fences are prohibited on individual manufactured home
lots.
         (e)   Inspection access. The area beneath a manufactured home shall be
enclosed except that the enclosure shall have access for inspection.
         (f)   Community building. A manufactured home park shall have a
central community building with restroom facilities, heating in all areas and
adequate storm protection design and capacity to serve the manufactured home
park. The buildings shall be maintained in a safe, clean and sanitary
condition.
         (g)   Emergency storm protections. Manufactured home parks established
prior to the effective date of this chapter, shall comply with emergency storm
protections as required by state statutes. A new manufactured home park
established after the effective date of this chapter, shall have storm shelters
in compliance with state statutes. Additionally, all emergency storm protection
measures shall be subject to the approval of the City Council.
         (h)   Manufactured home lot setbacks.
            1.   Front. Ten feet from the curb of streets interior to the
manufactured home park or 30 feet from other public rights-of-way;
            2.   Side. Ten feet;
            3.   Rear. Ten feet; and
            4.   Permitted encroachments.
               a.   Attached steps, uncovered stoops and landings may encroach
up to five feet into a side yard setback, provided that they do not exceed 20
square feet in area or extend closer than ten feet to a structure on an
adjacent lot; and
               b.   An eave or overhang may encroach up to one foot into a
front, side and rear setback.
         (i)   Building height requirements. No structure shall exceed one
story or 25 feet, whichever is least.
         (j)   Utilities.
            1.   All manufactured home parks shall be connected to a public
water and sanitary sewer system.
            2.   All installations for disposal of surface stormwater must be
approved by the city.
            3.   All utility connections shall be as approved by the city.
            4.   The source of fuel for cooking, heating or other purposes at
each manufactured home site shall be as approved by the city.
            5.   All utilities shall be underground; there shall be no overhead
wires or supporting poles except those essential for street or other lighting
purposes.
            6.   No obstruction shall be permitted that impedes the inspection
of plumbing, electrical facilities and related manufactured home equipment.
            7.   The method of garbage, waste and trash disposal must be
approved by the city.
            8.   The manufactured home park owner shall pay any required sewer
and water connection fees to the city.
            9.   The manufactured home park owner shall pay inspection and
testing fees for utility service to the city.
            10.   All utility construction plans shall be approved by the State
Department of Health.
         (k)   Storage. Exterior storage on individual manufactured home lots
shall comply with the provisions of §§
152.180 through
152.194 of this chapter, except not more than one recreational vehicle may be
allowed on a lot.
         (l)   Accessory buildings.
            1.   Limit. Accessory buildings including garages shall be limited
to one per manufactured home lot. Maximum allowable floor area shall not exceed
6% of the lot size in manufactured home parks where lot size is delineated by
site plan or lot markers. Floor area shall not exceed 80 square feet in
manufactured home parks where lot size is not delineated.
            2.   Maximum building height. Fifteen feet.
            3.   Location. The manufactured home park site plan shall designate
the locations proposed for the development of garages and/or accessory
buildings on each manufactured home lot. The accessory buildings shall comply
with the following setback requirements.
               a.   An accessory building shall only be located in side or rear
yards.
               b.   Accessory buildings shall not be located within any utility
easements.
               c.   Accessory buildings shall be located at least six feet from
any other building or structure on the same lot and at least ten feet from a
structure on an adjacent lot. On corner lots, accessory buildings shall be
located at least 20 feet from a side street surface. Accessory buildings in
excess of 12 feet in width shall only be placed on a lot 65 feet in width or
greater.
            4.   Building type and construction. Any building addition shall
either be manufactured or custom built of materials that are consistent or
compatible to the design of the principal building. COMPATIBLE means that the
exterior appearance of an accessory building is not at variance with the
principal building from an aesthetic and architectural standpoint to cause:
               a.   A difference to a degree to cause incongruity with the
principal building; and
               b.   A deviation from the general character of the neighborhood.
      (3)   Design requirements for manufactured home parks.
         (a)   Park size. The minimum area required for a manufactured home
park designation shall be five acres.
         (b)   Lot requirements for individual manufactured home lot.
 
                           Each manufactured home lot shall have frontage on an
Frontage                   approved roadway and the corner of each manufactured
                           home lot shall be marked and each lot shall be
                           numbered
Lot area                   5,000 square feet
Lot depth                  Not less than 120 feet
Lot width                  Not less than 50 feet
Maximum impervious surface 50%
 
         (c)   Parking.
            1.   Each manufactured home site shall have off-street parking
space for two passenger vehicles.
            2.   All parking spaces shall be hard surfaced according to
specifications established by the city.
         (d)   Internal roads and streets.
            1.   All streets shall be private streets and shall be developed
with a roadbed of not less than 32 feet in width and shall meet city design
specifications.
            2.   The park shall have a street lighting plan approved by the
city.
         (e)   Recreation. All manufactured home parks shall have at least 6%
of the land area developed for recreational use (tennis courts, children's play
equipment, swimming pool, golf green and the like). The recreational use shall
be developed and maintained at the owner/operator's expense.
         (f)   Landscaping.
            1.   Each manufactured home lot shall be provided with one tree.
The size and type of trees shall meet the requirements of §
152.278(B) of this chapter.
            2.   A landscape screen meeting the requirements of §
152.279 of this chapter shall be installed and maintained around each
manufactured home park.
            3.   All areas shall be landscaped in accordance with a landscaping
plan approved by the City Council.
         (g)   Lighting.
            1.   Artificial light shall be maintained during all hours of
darkness in all buildings containing public toilets, laundry equipment and the
like.
            2.   The manufactured home park grounds shall be lighted as
approved by the city from sunset to sunrise.
      (4)   Operational standards for manufactured home park.
         (a)   Maintenance. The operator of any manufactured home park or a
duly authorized attendant and/or caretaker shall be responsible at all times
for keeping the manufactured home park, its facilities and equipment, in a
clean, orderly, operable and sanitary condition. The attendant or caretaker
shall be answerable, along with the operator, for the violation of any
provisions of these regulations to which the operator is subject.
         (b)   Inspections prior to sale. Prior to the sale of a manufactured
home within a manufactured home park, the operator of a manufactured home park
or the duly authorized attendant and/or caretaker must inform the Building
Official of the prospective sale.
         (c)   Permits. Prior to a manufactured home being moved onto a lot,
the owner shall apply for and obtain a building permit for the (foundation)
blocking to state code and a permit for connection to public sewer and water.
The application for permits shall be accompanied by a site plan, drawn to
scale, detailing the unit placement, accessory structures and setbacks.
      (5)   Street maintenance. All private internal streets in manufactured
home parks shall be maintained by the park owner in a good state of repair,
free from obstructions, encumbrances, depressions, potholes and break ups. Snow
shall be promptly plowed and removed from streets and adjacent mail boxes and
fire hydrants, so that snow or snow piles do not constitute a safety hazard to
motorists and pedestrians, or constitute an obstruction to emergency service
vehicles. Icy streets and areas adjacent to mail boxes shall be promptly
sanded. PROMPTLY shall mean no later than 24 hours after the end of a snow fall
or in the case of ice within 24 hours after it has formed.
   (D)   Personal wireless service antennas not located on a public or quasi-
public structure or existing tower provided that the applicable provisions of
§§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter are determined to be satisfied.
(Prior Code, § 11-57-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.589 INTERIM USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are interim
uses in an R-M District and require an interim use permit based upon procedures
set forth in and regulated by §§
152.085 through
152.089 of this chapter: satellite TVROs greater than one meter in diameter as
regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-57-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.590 USES BY ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following uses are
allowed by administrative permit in an R-M District based upon procedures set
forth in and regulated by §§
152.115 through
152.118 of this chapter:
   (A)   Essential services, except transmission pipelines and transmission or
substation lines in excess of 35kV and up to 100kV, as regulated by §§
152.385 through
152.389 of this chapter;
   (B)   Home occupations, as regulated by §§
152.295 through
152.300 of this chapter; and
   (C)   Personal wireless service antennas located upon a public or quasi-
public structure or existing tower as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-57-6) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
R-B, RESIDENTIAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 152.605 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the R-B, Residential Business District is to provide for an
intermixing of low to medium density residential, including single-family
detached and two-family dwellings, with low intensity business uses.
(Prior Code, § 11-58-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 347, passed 9-20-2016)
§ 152.606 PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
permitted uses in an R-B District:
   (A)   Essential services;
   (B)   Public parks and playgrounds;
   (C)   Warehousing and indoor storage, not including mini-self storage
facilities, provided:
      (1)   Warehousing shall only be allowed within buildings existing prior
to the adoption of this subchapter;
      (2)   The footprint of the building shall not exceed 10,000 square feet
in area;
      (3)   Buildings utilized for warehousing shall have direct access from a
collector road with adequate capability to handle truck traffic, without
intrusion upon residential streets;
      (4)   All storage shall be enclosed within the building;
      (5)   Additional landscaping and screening may be required to screen use
from adjacent residential use;
      (6)   Truck traffic may be limited to hours set by the city; and
      (7)   Explosive and hazardous material shall not be stored on the site;
   (D)   Single family detached dwellings; and
   (E)   Two-family dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 11-58-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 279, passed 4-3-2008;
Ord. 347, passed 9-20-2016)
§ 152.607 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
permitted accessory uses in an R-B District:
   (A)   Accessory uses, buildings and structures customarily incidental and
directly related to the uses allowed as permitted, conditional, interim and
administrative permit in this subchapter, subject to applicable regulation of
this chapter;
   (B)   Fences as regulated by §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter;
   (C)   Home offices;
   (D)   Play and recreational facilities, accessory to an existing permitted
use;
   (E)   Secondary or accessory use antennas as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter; and
   (F)   Signs as regulated by §§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-58-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.608 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
conditional uses in an R-B District and require a conditional use permit based
upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §§
152.070 through
152.074 of this chapter:
   (A)   Buildings combining residential and nonresidential uses allowed in
this district, provided:
      (1)   Commercial use shall be located at the street level floor of the
principal building;
      (2)   The residential and nonresidential uses shall not conflict in any
manner; and
      (3)   The residential building standards as required by this district are
met.
   (B)   Elderly (senior citizen) housing provided that:
      (1)   The provisions of §
152.210(C) of this chapter are being met;
      (2)   Not more than 20% of the occupants may be persons 55 years of age
or under (spouse of a person over 55 years of age or caretakers and the like);
      (3)   To continue to qualify for the elderly housing classification the
owner or agency shall annually file with the Zoning Administrator a certified
copy of a monthly resume of occupants of a multiple dwelling, listing the
number of tenants by age and clearly identifying and setting forth the
relationship of all occupants 60 years of age or under to qualified tenants, or
to the building;
      (4)   There is adequate off-street parking in compliance with §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter;
      (5)   Parking areas are screened and landscaped from view of surrounding
and abutting residential districts in compliance with §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter;
      (6)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices shall
be in compliance with §§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter;
      (7)   Elevator service is provided to each floor level; and
      (8)   Usable open space at a minimum of 20% of the gross lot area.
   (C)   Essential services involving transmission pipelines and transmission
or substation lines in excess of 35kV and up to 100kV, provided that the
applicable provisions of §§
152.385 through
152.389 of this chapter are determined to be satisfied;
   (D)   Government buildings and public related utility buildings and
structures necessary for the health, safety and general welfare of the city,
provided that when abutting a residential use or a residential use district,
the property is screened and landscaped in compliance with §
152.279 of this chapter;
   (E)   Personal wireless service antennas not located on a public structure
or existing tower, provided that the applicable provisions of §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter are determined to be satisfied;
   (F)   Planned unit development residential, multiple-family dwelling
structures as regulated by §§
152.150 through
152.153 of this chapter and subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   The provisions of §
152.210(C) of this chapter are being met;
      (2)   The site of the principal use and its related parking is served by
an arterial or collector street;
      (3)   There is adequate off-street parking in compliance with §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter;
      (4)   Parking areas are screened and landscaped from view of surrounding
and abutting residential districts in compliance with §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter;
      (5)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices shall
be in compliance with §§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter;
      (6)   Usable open space at a minimum of 20% of the gross lot area; and
      (7)   Unit size.
         (a)   Multiple-family dwelling units. Multiple-family dwelling units,
except for elderly housing dwelling units, shall have the following minimum
floor area per unit.
 
Efficiency units           500 square feet
One bedroom units          700 square feet
Two bedroom units          800 square feet
More than two bedroom unit An additional 80 square feet per bedroom
 
         (b)   Exterior treatment. The exterior of multiple-family dwelling
structures shall include a variation in building materials which are to be
distributed throughout the building facades and coordinated into the
architectural design of the structure to create an architecturally balanced
appearance. In addition, multiple-family dwelling structures shall comply with
the following requirements:
            1.   A minimum of 25% of the combined area of all building exterior
wall of a structure shall have an exterior finish of brick, stucco and/or
natural or artificial stone; and
            2.   For the purposes of this section, the area of the building
faced shall not include area devoted to windows, entrance doors, garage doors
or roof areas;
   (G)   Medical offices and clinics, dental offices and clinics, professional
offices and commercial (leased) offices, veterinary clinics (not including
outside kennels) and funeral homes and mortuaries, provided that:
      (1)   Adequate off-street parking and loading space is provided in
compliance with §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter;
      (2)   Vehicular entrances to parking or service areas shall create a
minimum of conflict with through traffic movement;
      (3)   When abutting a residential use, a buffer area with screening and
landscaping in compliance with §
152.279 of this chapter shall be provided; and
      (4)   All signs and information or visual communication devices shall be
in compliance with §§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter.
   (H)   Nursing homes and similar group housing, hospitals, sanitariums or
similar institutions, provided that:
      (1)   Side yards are double the minimum requirements established for this
district and are screened in compliance with §
152.279 of this chapter;
      (2)   Only the rear yard shall be used for play or recreational areas.
The area shall be fenced and controlled and screened in compliance with §
152.279 of this chapter;
      (3)   The site shall be served by an arterial or collector street as
defined by the Comprehensive Plan of sufficient capacity to accommodate traffic
which will be generated;
      (4)   All signing and information or visual communication devices shall
be in compliance with §§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter;
      (5)   All state laws and statutes governing the use are strictly adhered
to and all required operating permits are secured; and
      (6)   Adequate off-street parking and loading space is provided in
compliance with §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter.
   (I)   Personal wireless service antennas not located on a public structure
or existing tower, provided that the applicable provisions of §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter are determined to be satisfied;
   (J)   Public or semi-public recreational buildings and community centers,
public and private educational institutions and religious institutions provided
that:
      (1)   Side yard shall be double that required for the district, but no
greater than 30 feet;
      (2)   Adequate screening from abutting residential uses and landscaping
is provided in compliance with §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter; and
      (3)   Adequate off-street parking and loading space is provided in
compliance with §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter.
   (K)   Retail commercial activities, provided that:
      (1)   Merchandise is sold at retail;
      (2)   Adequate off-street loading is provided in compliance with §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter;
      (3)   Vehicular entrances to parking or service areas shall create a
minimum of conflict with through traffic movement;
      (4)   When abutting a residential use, a buffer area with screening and
landscaping in compliance with §
152.279 of this chapter shall be provided; and
      (5)   All signs and information or visual communication devices shall be
in compliance with §§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter.
   (L)   Motor fuel stations provided the following.
      (1)   Motor fuel facilities. Motor fuel facilities shall be installed in
accordance with state and city standards. Additionally, adequate space shall be
provided to access fuel pumps and allow maneuverability around the pumps.
Underground fuel storage tanks are to be positioned to allow adequate access by
motor fuel transports and unloading operations which do not conflict with
circulation, access and other activities on the site. Fuel pumps shall be
installed on pump islands.
      (2)   Architectural standards.
         (a)   As a part of the conditional use permit application, a color
illustration of all building elevations shall be submitted.
         (b)   The architectural appearance, scale and functional plan of the
building(s) and canopy shall be complementary and compatible with each other
and the existing buildings in the neighborhood setting.
         (c)   All sides of the principal and accessory structures are to have
essentially the same or a coordinated harmonious finish treatment pursuant to §
152.208 of this chapter.
         (d)   Exterior wall treatments like brick, stone (natural or
artificial), decorative concrete block and stucco shall be used.
      (3)   Canopy. A protective canopy structure may be located over the pump
island(s) as an accessory structure. The canopy shall meet the following
performance standards.
         (a)   The edge of the canopy shall be 30 feet or more from the front
and/or side lot line, provided that adequate visibility both on-site and off-
site is maintained.
         (b)   The canopy shall not exceed 18 feet in height and shall provide
14 feet of clearance to accommodate a semitrailer truck passing underneath.
         (c)   The canopy fascia shall not exceed three feet in vertical
height.
         (d)   Canopy lighting shall consist of canister spotlights recessed
into the canopy. No portion of the light source or fixture may extend below the
ceiling of the canopy. Total canopy illumination may not exceed 115 foot
candles below the canopy at ground level.
         (e)   The architectural design, colors and character of the canopy
shall be consistent with the principal building on the site.
         (f)   Signage may be allowed on a detached canopy in lieu of wall
signage on the principal structure, provided that the individual canopy sign
does not exceed more than 20% of the canopy facade facing a public right-of-
way.
         (g)   Canopy posts/sign posts shall not obstruct traffic or the safe
operation of the gas pumps.
      (4)   Pump islands. Pump islands shall comply with the following
performance standards.
         (a)   Pump islands shall be elevated six inches above the traveled
surface of the site.
         (b)   All pump islands shall be set at least 30 feet back from any
property line. Additionally, the setback between the pump islands curb face
shall be at least 24 feet.
      (5)   Dust control and drainage. The entire site other than taken up by a
building, structure or plantings shall be surfaced with asphalt, concrete,
cobblestone or paving brick. Plans for surfacing and drainage shall be subject
to approval of the City Engineer. Drainage from all fueling areas shall be
directed to an oil/grit separator. Minimum design standards for the oil/grit
separator shall include the following:
         (a)   A minimum of 400 cubic feet of permanent pool storage capacity
per acre of drainage area;
         (b)   A minimum pool depth of four feet;
         (c)   A minimum oil containment capacity of 800 gallons; and
         (d)   Minimum maintenance/inspection of two times per year and/or
after measurable spill events. A measurable spill shall be defined by the State
Pollution Control Agency (MPCA). Any measurable spill event must be reported to
the MPCA.
      (6)   Landscaping.
         (a)   At least 35% of the lot, parcel or tract of land used
exclusively for the gas sales facility shall remain as a grass plot, including
trees, shrubbery, plantings or fencing and shall be landscaped. Required
minimum green area should be emphasized in the front and side yards abutting
streets or residential property.
         (b)   At the boundaries of the lot, the following landscape area shall
be required.
            1.   From side and rear property lines, an area of not less than
ten feet side shall be landscaped in compliance with §
152.278 of this chapter.
            2.   From all road rights-of-way, an area of not less than 15 feet
wide shall be landscaped in compliance with §
152.278 of this chapter.
            3.   Where lots abut residentially zoned property, a buffer yard of
not less than 20 feet wide shall be landscaped and screened in accordance with
§
152.278 of this chapter.
            4.   The property owner shall be responsible for maintenance of all
landscaping, including within the boulevard.
      (7)   Exterior lighting. The lighting shall be in compliance with §
152.187 of this chapter. A comprehensive lighting plan shall be submitted as
part of the conditional use permit application and shall be subject to the
following performance standards.
         (a)   Canopy lighting. Canopy lighting under the canopy structure
shall consist of canister spotlights recessed into the canopy. No portion of
the light source or fixture may extend below the ceiling of the canopy. Total
canopy illumination below the canopy may not exceed 115 foot candles at ground
level.
         (b)   Perimeter lighting. Lighting at the periphery of the site and
building shall be directed downward and individual lights shall not exceed 15
foot candles at ground level.
         (c)   Illumination. Maximum site illumination shall not exceed four-
tenths foot candle at ground level when measured at any boundary line with an
adjoining residential property or any public property.
         (d)   Access. Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of
conflict with through traffic movement and shall comply with §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter.
      (8)   Circulation and loading. The site design shall accommodate adequate
turning radius and vertical clearance for a semitrailer truck. Designated
loading areas shall be exclusive of off-street parking stalls and drive aisles.
A site plan shall be provided to illustrate adequate turning radius, using
appropriate engineering templates.
      (9)   Parking.
         (a)   Parking spaces shall be calculated solely based upon the use(s)
and the square footage of the principal building(s).
         (b)   Parking spaces shall be screened from abutting residential
properties in accordance with §
152.279 of this chapter.
      (10)   Noise. Public address system shall not be audible at any property
line. Playing of music or advertisement from the public address system is
prohibited. Noise control shall be required as regulated in §
152.191 of this chapter.
      (11)   Outside storage, sales and service. No outside storage or sales
shall be allowed, except as follows.
         (a)   Public phones may be located on site as long as they do not
interrupt on-site traffic circulation and are not located in a yard abutting
residentially zoned property.
         (b)   Propane sales of 20-pound capacity tanks may be located outside
provided the propane tanks are secured in a locker and meet all State Uniform
Building and Fire Codes.
         (c)   A compressed air service area may be located on site as long as
it does not interrupt on-site traffic circulation.
         (d)   Accessory outdoor services, sales or rental as regulated by §
152.650(B) of this chapter.
      (12)   Litter control. The operation shall be responsible for litter
control on the subject property, which is to occur on a daily basis. Trash
receptacles shall be provided at a convenient location on site to facilitate
litter control.
      (13)   Additional stipulations. All conditions pertaining to a specific
site are subject to change when the City Council, upon investigation in
relation to a formal request, finds that the general welfare and public
betterment can be served as well or better by modifying or expanding the
conditions set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 11-58-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.609 INTERIM USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are interim
uses in an R-B District and require an interim use permit based upon procedures
set forth in and regulated by §§
152.085 through
152.089 of this chapter:
   (A)   Satellite TVROs greater than one meter in diameter as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter;
   (B)   Special home occupations, as regulated by §§
152.295 through
152.300 of this chapter; and
   (C)   Use of land or buildings allowed by §§
152.606 (Permitted Uses);
152.607 (Accessory Uses);
152.608 (Conditional Uses); and for light industrial use within an existing
building previously used for industrial purposes.
(Prior Code, § 11-58-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 305, passed 8-3-2010)
§ 152.610 USES BY ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following uses are
allowed by administrative permit in an R-B District based upon procedures set
forth in and regulated by §§
152.115 through
152.118 of this chapter:
   (A)   Essential services, except transmission pipelines and transmission or
substation lines in excess of 35kV and up to 100kV, as regulated by §§
152.385 through
152.389 of this chapter; and
   (B)   Personal wireless service antennas located upon a public or quasi-
public structure or existing tower, as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-58-6) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.611 LOT REQUIREMENTS AND SETBACKS.
   (A)   Except for Single-family detached and two family dwellings, the
following minimum requirements shall be observed in an R-B District subject to
additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this
chapter:
Minimum lot area
   Elderly      1,000 square feet per unit
   Multiply-fami2,500 square feet per unit
   Other uses   15,000 square feet
Minimum lot depth  120 feet
Minimum lot width  100 feet
Minimum setbacks
   Front        25 feet
                   25 feet, not less than 35 feet for a nonresidential use on a
   Rear         rear yard abutting a single-family residential zoning
                   district
   Side         15 feet, not less than 25 feet on a side yard abutting a
                   street
   Zero lot lineSide yard setback requirements shall not be applied to
                   common walls of multiple-family dwellings
 
   (B)   The following minimum requirements shall be observed for single-family
detached and two-family dwellings subject to additional requirements,
exceptions and modifications set forth in this chapter:
Minimum lot area
   Single-family             8,520 square feet
   Two-family (per unit)     5,000 square feet
Minimum lot depth
   Single and Two Family     142 feet
Minimum lot width
   Single-family             60 feet
   Two-family                80 feet
Minimum setbacks
   Front                     25 feet
   Rear                      20 feet
   Side                      Interior          10 feet
                                Corner            20 feet
                                Common wall       0 feet
   Rear/side detached accesso5 feet
   Garage accessing alley    15 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 11-58-7) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 347, passed 9-20-2016)
§ 152.612 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   The following building requirements shall be observed in an R-B District.
   (A)   All structures shall be limited to a maximum height of three stories
or 45 feet, however, building heights in excess of the prescribed standard may
be permitted through a conditional use permit, provided that the requirements
of §
152.207(A) of this chapter are met.
   (B)   Dwelling unit floor area shall be governed by §
152.210 of this chapter.
   (C)   Accessory structures shall be governed by §§
152.230 through
152.241 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-58-8) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
B-1, CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 152.625 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the B-1, Central Business District is to provide for the
establishment of commercial and service activities which draw from and serve
customers from the community and surrounding area.
(Prior Code, § 11-60-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.626 PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
permitted uses in a B-1 District:
   (A)   Financial institutions;
   (B)   Governmental or public regulated utilities, buildings or structures
necessary for the health, safety and general welfare of the city;
   (C)   Liquor sales, on- and off-site;
   (D)   Office business; clinic;
   (E)   Office business; general;
   (F)   Personal services, subject to any licensing requirements of the city,
county or state;
   (G)   Restaurants;
   (H)   Retail business;
   (I)   Service business; on-site without drive-through service facilities;
   (J)   Specialty schools, such as music, dance, gymnastics, business or trade
school; and
   (K)   Theaters.
(Prior Code, § 11-60-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.627 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
permitted accessory uses in a B-1 District:
   (A)   Commercial accessory buildings and structures provided that the use
shall not exceed 30% of the gross floor space of the principal use;
   (B)   Fences as regulated by §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter;
   (C)   Off-street parking and loading as regulated by §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter;
   (D)   Secondary or accessory use antennas or satellites as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter;
   (E)   Signs as regulated by §§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter; and
   (F)   Farmers markets accessory to a “governmental or public regulated
utilities, buildings or structures necessary for the health, safety and general
welfare of the city” permitted use.
(Prior Code, § 11-60-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 376, passed 5-18-2021)
§ 152.628 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
conditional uses in the B-1 District and require a conditional use permit based
upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §§
152.070 through
152.074 of this chapter:
   (A)   Accessory drive-through facilities provided that:
      (1)   Not less than 120 feet of segregated automobile stacking shall be
provided for the single service lane. Where multiple service lanes are
provided, the minimum automobile stacking may be reduced to 60 feet per lane;
      (2)   The stacking lane and its access shall be designated to control
traffic in a manner to protect the buildings and will not interfere with on-
site traffic circulation or access to the required parking space;
      (3)   No part of the public street or boulevard may be used for stacking
of automobiles;
      (4)   The stacking lane, order board telecom and window placement shall
be designed and located in a manner as to minimize glare to adjacent premises,
particularly residential premises and to maximize maneuverability of vehicles
on the site;
      (5)   The drive-through window and its stacking lanes shall be screened
from view of adjoining residential zoning districts and public street rights-
of-way; and
      (6)   A lighting and photometric plan will be required that illustrates
the drive-through service lane lighting and shall comply with §
152.187 of this chapter.
   (B)   Essential service involving transmission pipelines and transmission or
substation lines in excess of 35kV and up to 100kV, as regulated by §§
152.385 through
152.389 of this chapter;
   (C)   Residential and nonresidential uses within one structure, provided
that:
      (1)   Residential and nonresidential uses shall not be contained on the
same floor and no residential use shall be located on the first floor; and
      (2)   Residential and nonresidential uses shall have separate entrances
and exits.
   (D)   Accessory outdoor dining facilities with more than 16 seats provided
that:
      (1)   The applicant submit a site plan and other pertinent information
demonstrating the location and type of tables, refuse receptacles and wait
stations;
      (2)   The dining area shall be screened from view from adjacent
residential uses in accordance with §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter;
      (3)   All lighting shall be hooded and directed away from adjacent
residential uses; and
      (4)   The applicant demonstrates that pedestrian circulation is not
disrupted as a result of the outdoor dining area by providing the following:
      (5)   The applicant demonstrates that pedestrian circulation is not
disrupted as a result of the outdoor dining area by providing the following:
         (a)   Outdoor dining area shall be segregated from through pedestrian
circulation by means of temporary fencing, bollards, ropes, plantings or other
methods;
         (b)   Minimum clear passage zone for pedestrians at the perimeter of
the restaurant shall be at least five feet without interference from parked
motor vehicles, bollards, trees, tree gates, curbs, stairways, trash
receptacles, street lights or the like;
         (c)   Overstory canopy of trees, umbrellas or other structures
extending into the pedestrian clear passage zone or pedestrian aisle shall have
a minimum clearance of seven feet above sidewalk;
         (d)   The dining area is surfaced with concrete, bituminous or
decorative pavers or may consist of a deck with wood or other flooring material
that provides a clean, attractive and functional surface;
         (e)   Storage of furniture shall not be permitted outdoors between
November 2 and March 31. Outdoor furniture that is immovable or permanently
fixed or attached to the sidewalk shall not be subject to the storage
prohibition of this section. However, any immovable or permanently fixed or
attached furniture shall be approved as part of the conditional use permit; and
         (f)   Refuse containers are to be provided for self-service outdoor
dining areas. These containers shall be placed in a manner which does not
disrupt pedestrian circulation.
(Prior Code, § 11-60-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 278, passed 3-19-2008)
§ 152.629 INTERIM USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are interim
uses in a B-1 District and require an interim use permit based upon procedures
set forth in and regulated by §§
152.085 through
152.089 of this chapter: none.
(Prior Code, § 11-60-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.630 USES BY ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following uses are
allowed by administrative permit in a B-1 District based upon procedures set
forth in and regulated by §§
152.115 through
152.118 of this chapter. Accessory outdoor dining facilities with 16 seats or
less provided that:
   (A)   The applicant shall submit a site plan and other pertinent information
demonstrating the location and type of tables, refuse receptacles and wait
stations;
   (B)   All lighting shall be hooded and directed away from adjacent
residential uses; and
   (C)   The applicant shall demonstrate that pedestrian circulation is not
disrupted as a result of the outdoor dining area by providing the following:
      (1)   Minimum clear passage zone for pedestrians at the perimeter of the
restaurant shall be at least five feet without interference from parked motor
vehicles, bollards, trees, tree gates, curbs, stairways, trash receptacles,
street lights or the like;
      (2)   Overstory canopy of trees, umbrellas or other structures extending
into the pedestrian clear passage zone or pedestrian aisle shall have a minimum
clearance of seven feet above sidewalk;
      (3)   The dining area is surfaced with concrete, bituminous or decorative
pavers or may consist of a deck with wood or other flooring material that
provides a clean, attractive and functional surface;
      (4)   Storage of furniture shall not be permitted outdoors between
November 2 and March 31; and
      (5)   Refuse containers are to be provided for self-service outdoor
dining areas. These containers shall be placed in a manner which does not
disrupt pedestrian circulation.
(Prior Code, § 11-60-6) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 278, passed 3-19-2008)
§ 152.631 LOT REQUIREMENTS AND SETBACKS.
   The following minimum requirements shall be observed in a B-1 District
subject to additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in
this chapter.
 
Lot area      None
Lot width     None
Setbacks
   Front yaNone
   Rear yarNone, except when abutting a residential district, then 25 feet
   Side yarNone, except when abutting a residential district, then 25 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 11-60-7) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.632 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   The following building requirements shall be observed in the B-1 District.
   (A)   All buildings shall be limited to a maximum height of three stories or
35 feet, however, building heights in excess of the prescribed standard may be
permitted through a conditional use permit, provided that the requirements of §
152.207(A) of this chapter are met.
   (B)   All buildings and property located within the boundaries of the HD,
Historic Downtown Overlay District, shall be subject to the architectural
standards described and illustrated within the downtown design standards manual
adopted as an addendum to the Comprehensive Plan.
(Prior Code, § 11-60-8) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
B-2, HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 152.645 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the B-2, Highway Business District is to provide for and
limit the establishment of motor vehicle oriented or dependent high intensity
commercial and service activities and less intensive industrial uses.
(Prior Code, § 11-61-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 347, passed 9-20-2016)
§ 152.646 PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
permitted uses in a B-2 District:
   (A)   Automobile accessory stores;
   (B)   Automobile sales; indoor;
   (C)   Governmental and public regulated utilities, buildings and structures
necessary for the health, safety and general welfare of the city;
   (D)   Greenhouses and landscape nurseries;
   (E)   Hospitality businesses;
   (F)   Liquor sales; on- and off-sale;
   (G)   Office businesses; clinical;
   (H)   Office businesses; general;
   (I)   Recreational businesses contained entirely within the principal
building;
   (J)   Restaurant without drive-through facilities, without outdoor dining;
   (K)   Retail businesses without drive-through service facilities;
   (L)   Service businesses; off-site;
   (M)   Service businesses; on-site without drive-through service facilities;
and
   (N)   Theaters.
(Prior Code, § 11-61-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.647 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
permitted accessory uses in a B-2 District:
   (A)   Commercial accessory buildings and structures provided that the use
shall not exceed 30% of the gross floor space of the principal use;
   (B)   Fences as regulated by §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter;
   (D)   Off-street parking and loading as regulated by §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter, but not including semitrailer trucks, except in
designated loading areas not to exceed four hours;
   (E)   Secondary or accessory use antennas or satellites as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter; and
   (F)   Signs as regulated by §§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-61-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.648 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
conditional uses in a B-2 District and require a conditional use permit based
upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §§
152.070 through
152.074 of this chapter:
   (A)   Accessory drive-through facilities provided that:
      (1)   Not less than 120 feet of segregated automobile stacking must be
provided for the single service lane. Where multiple service lanes are
provided, the minimum automobile stacking may be reduced to 60 feet per lane;
      (2)   The stacking lane and its access shall be designed to control
traffic in a manner to protect the buildings and will not interfere with on-
site traffic circulation or access to the required parking space;
      (3)   No part of the public street or boulevard may be used for stacking
of automobiles;
      (4)   The stacking lane, order board telecom and window placement shall
be designed and located in a manner as to minimize glare to adjacent premises,
particularly residential premises and to maximize maneuverability of vehicles
on the site;
      (5)   The drive-through window and its stacking lanes shall be screened
from view of adjoining residential zoning districts and public street rights-
of-way; and
      (6)   A lighting and photometric plan will be required that illustrates
the drive-through service lane lighting and shall comply with §
152.187 of this chapter.
   (B)   Automobile repair, major and minor, provided that:
      (1)   Landscaping and screening not less than five feet in width shall be
provided at the boundaries abutting a residential zoning district in compliance
with §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter;
      (2)   Parking or automobile storage space shall be screened from view of
abutting residential districts in compliance with §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter;
      (3)   Regardless of whether the dispensing, sale or offering for sale of
motor fuels and/or oil is incidental to the conduct of the use or business, the
standards and requirements imposed by this chapter for motor fuel stations
shall apply. These standards and requirements are, however, in addition to
other requirements that are imposed for other uses of the property;
      (4)   All painting shall be conducted in an approved paint booth. All
paint booths and all other activities of the operation shall thoroughly control
the emission of fumes, dust or other particulate matter so that the use shall
be in compliance with the State Pollution Control Standards, Minn. Regulations
APC 1-15, as amended;
      (5)   All flammable materials, including liquids and rags, shall conform
with the applicable provisions of the State Uniform Fire Code; and
      (6)   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise.
   (C)   Commercial car washes (drive-through, mechanical and self-service)
provided that:
      (1)   The architectural appearance and functional plan of the building
and site shall not be so dissimilar to the existing buildings or areas as to
cause impairment in property values or constitute a blighting influence;
      (2)   Magazining or stacking space is constructed to accommodate that
number of vehicles which can be washed during a maximum 30-minute period and
shall be subject to the approval of the City Engineer;
      (3)   At the boundaries of a residential district, a strip of not less
than five feet shall be landscaped and screened in compliance with §
152.278 of this chapter;
      (4)   Parking or car magazine storage space shall be screened from view
of abutting residential districts in compliance with §
152.279 of this chapter;
      (5)   The entire area other than occupied by the building or plantings
shall be surfaced with material which will control dust and drainage which is
subject to the approval of the city;
      (6)   The entire area shall have a drainage system which is subject to
the approval of the city;
      (7)   All lighting shall be hooded and so directed that the light source
is not visible from the public right-of-way or from an abutting residence and
shall be in compliance with §
152.187 of this chapter;
      (8)   Vehicular access points shall be limited, shall create a minimum of
conflict with through traffic movement and shall be subject to the approval of
the City Engineer; and
      (9)   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise.
   (D)   Commercial daycare facilities provided that:
      (1)   All requirements of the State Department of Health and Human
Services, as may be amended, are satisfactorily met and the structure and
operation is licensed accordingly;
      (2)   Screening is provided along all shared property lines. The required
fencing and screening shall be in compliance with the applicable provisions of
§
152.279 of this chapter;
      (3)   Adequate off-street parking is provided in a location separated
from any outdoor play area(s); and
      (4)   Adequate off-street loading spaces in compliance with §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter.
   (E)   Contractor shops and offices provided that:
      (1)   All outside storage is prohibited. The storage of contractor
equipment and materials must be completely inside; and
      (2)   When abutting a residential land use, a buffer area with screening
and landscaping in compliance with §
152.279 of this chapter.
   (F)   Hospitals provided that:
      (1)   Side yards are double the minimum requirements established for this
district and are screened in compliance with §
152.279 of this chapter;
      (2)   The site shall be served by an arterial or collector street of
sufficient capacity to accommodate traffic which will be generated;
      (3)   All state statutes and regulations governing the use are strictly
adhered to and all required operating permits are secured; and
      (4)   Adequate off-street loading space is provided in compliance with §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter.
   (G)   Motor fuel stations provided the following.
      (1)   Motor fuel facilities. Motor fuel facilities shall be installed in
accordance with state and city standards. Additionally, adequate space shall be
provided to access fuel pumps and allow maneuverability around the pumps.
Underground fuel storage tanks are to be positioned to allow adequate access by
motor fuel transports and unloading operations which do not conflict with
circulation, access and other activities on the site. Fuel pumps shall be
installed on pump islands;
      (2)   Architectural standards.
         (a)   As a part of the conditional use permit application, a color
illustration of all building elevations shall be submitted;
         (b)   The architectural appearance, scale and functional plan of the
building(s) and canopy shall be complementary and compatible with each other
and the existing buildings in the neighborhood setting;
         (c)   All sides of the principal and accessory structures are to have
essentially the same or a coordinated harmonious finish treatment pursuant to §
152.208 of this chapter; and
         (d)   Exterior wall treatments like brick, stone (natural or
artificial), decorative concrete block and stucco shall be used.
      (3)   Canopy. A protective canopy structure may be located over the pump
island(s), as an accessory structure. The canopy shall meet the following
performance standards:
         (a)   The edge of the canopy shall be 30 feet or more from the front
and/or side lot line, provided that adequate visibility both on-site and off-
site is maintained;
         (b)   The canopy shall not exceed 18 feet in height and shall provide
14 feet of clearance to accommodate a semitrailer truck passing underneath;
         (c)   The canopy fascia shall not exceed three feet in vertical
height;
         (d)   Canopy lighting shall consist of canister spotlights recessed
into the canopy. No portion of the light source or fixture may extend below the
ceiling of the canopy. Total canopy illumination may not exceed 115 foot
candles below the canopy at ground level;
         (e)   The architectural design, colors and character of the canopy
shall be consistent with the principal building on the site;
         (f)   Signage may be allowed on a detached canopy in lieu of wall
signage on the principal structure, provided that the individual canopy sign
does not exceed more than 20% of the canopy facade facing a public right-of-
way; and
         (g)   Canopy posts/sign posts shall not obstruct traffic or the safe
operation of the gas pumps.
      (4)   Pump islands. Pump islands shall comply with the following
performance standards:
         (a)   Pump islands shall be elevated six inches above the traveled
surface of the site; and
         (b)   All pump islands shall be set at least 30 feet back from any
property line. Additionally, the setback between the pump islands curb face
shall be at least 24 feet.
      (5)   Dust control and drainage. The entire site other than taken up by a
building, structure or plantings shall be surfaced with asphalt, concrete,
cobblestone or paving brick. Plans for surfacing and drainage shall be subject
to approval of the City Engineer. Drainage from all fueling areas shall be
directed to an oil/grit separator. Minimum design standards for the oil/grit
separator shall include the following:
         (a)   A minimum of 400 cubic feet of permanent pool storage capacity
per acre of drainage area;
         (b)   A minimum pool depth of four feet;
         (c)   A minimum oil containment capacity of 800 gallons; and
         (d)   Minimum maintenance/inspection of two times per year and/or
after measurable spill events. A measurable spill shall be defined by the State
Pollution Control Agency (MPCA). Any measurable spill event must be reported to
the MPCA.
      (6)   Landscaping.
         (a)   At least 35% of the lot, parcel or tract of land used
exclusively for the gas sales facility shall remain as a grass plot, including
trees, shrubbery, plantings or fencing and shall be landscaped. Required
minimum green area should be emphasized in the front and side yards abutting
streets or residential property; and
         (b)   At the boundaries of the lot, the following landscape area shall
be required:
            1.   From side and rear property lines, an area of not less than
ten feet side shall be landscaped in compliance with §
152.278 of this chapter;
            2.   From all road rights-of-way, an area of not less than 15 feet
wide shall be landscaped in compliance with §
152.278 of this chapter;
            3.   Where lots abut residentially zoned property, a buffer yard of
not less than 20 feet wide shall be landscaped and screened in accordance with
§
152.278 of this chapter; and
            4.   The property owner shall be responsible for maintenance of all
landscaping, including within the boulevard.
      (7)   Exterior lighting. The lighting shall be in compliance with §
152.187 of this chapter. A comprehensive lighting plan shall be submitted as
part of the conditional use permit application and shall be subject to the
following performance standards:
         (a)   Canopy lighting. Canopy lighting under the canopy structure
shall consist of canister spotlights recessed into the canopy. No portion of
the light source or fixture may extend below the ceiling of the canopy. Total
canopy illumination below the canopy may not exceed 115 foot candles at ground
level;
         (b)   Perimeter lighting. Lighting at the periphery of the site and
building shall be directed downward and individual lights shall not exceed 15
foot candles at ground level;
         (c)   Illumination. Maximum site illumination shall not exceed four-
tenths foot candle at ground level when measured at any boundary line with an
adjoining residential property or any public property; and
         (d)   Access. Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of
conflict with through traffic movement and shall comply with §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter.
      (8)   Circulation and loading. The site design shall accommodate adequate
turning radius and vertical clearance for a semitrailer truck. Designated
loading areas shall be exclusive of off-street parking stalls and drive aisles.
A site plan shall be provided to illustrate adequate turning radius, using
appropriate engineering templates;
      (9)   Parking.
         (a)   Parking spaces shall be calculated solely based upon the use(s)
and the square footage of the principal building(s); and
         (b)   Parking spaces shall be screened from abutting residential
properties in accordance with §
152.279 of this chapter.
      (10)   Noise. Public address system shall not be audible at any property
line. Playing of music or advertisement from the public address system is
prohibited. Noise control shall be required as regulated in §
152.191 of this chapter;
      (11)   Outside storage, sales and service. No outside storage or sales
shall be allowed, except as follows:
         (a)   Public phones may be located on site as long as they do not
interrupt on-site traffic circulation and are not located in a yard abutting
residentially zoned property;
         (b)   Propane sales of 20 pound capacity tanks may be located outside
provided the propane tanks are secured in a locker and meet all State Uniform
Building and Fire Codes;
         (c)   A compressed air service area may be located on site as long as
it does not interrupt on-site traffic circulation; and
         (d)   Accessory outdoor services, sales or rental as regulated by §
152.650(B) of this chapter.
      (12)   Litter control. The operation shall be responsible for litter
control on the subject property, which is to occur on a daily basis. Trash
receptacles shall be provided at a convenient location on site to facilitate
litter control; and
      (13)   Additional stipulations. All conditions pertaining to a specific
site are subject to change when the City Council, upon investigation in
relation to a formal request, finds that the general welfare and public
betterment can be served as well or better by modifying or expanding the
conditions set forth herein.
   (H)   Accessory outdoor recreation provided that:
      (1)   The facilities are an accessory use to a principal use allowed
within the B-2 District;
      (2)   The facilities meet the principal building setbacks;
      (3)   The facilities shall maintain a 50-foot setback from residential
districts;
      (4)   The facilities shall be screened from adjoining properties or
public rights-of-way; and
      (5)   The city may set limits on the hours of operation to avoid nuisance
issues.
   (I)   Outdoor sales lots (not outdoor storage) provided that:
      (1)   Outside sales areas are fenced or screened from view of neighboring
residential uses or an abutting residential district in compliance with §
152.279 of this chapter;
      (2)   Outside sales or rental are associated with a principal building of
at least 1,000 square feet of floor area;
      (3)   Outdoor sales area shall be set at least five feet back from all
property lines and at least 15 feet back from any street surface;
      (4)   The entire sales lot and off-street parking area is paved;
      (5)   A perimeter curb is provided around the sales/parking lot;
      (6)   All lighting shall be hooded and so directed that the light source
is not visible from the public right-of-way or from an abutting residence and
shall be in compliance with §
152.187 of this chapter; and
      (7)   Materials for sale shall be displayed in an orderly manner and
shall not constitute junk, as defined by this chapter.
   (J)   Personal wireless service antennas not located on an existing
structure or tower, as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter;
   (K)   Planned unit development as regulated in §§
152.150 through
152.153 of this chapter;
   (L)   Private lodges and clubs provided that:
      (1)   Adequate screening from abutting and adjoining residential uses and
landscaping is provided;
      (2)   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided and that such
parking is adequately screened and landscaped from adjoining and residential
uses; and
      (3)   Adequate off-street loading and service entrances are provided and
regulated where applicable by §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter.
   (M)   Restaurants with accessory outdoor dining facilities provided that:
      (1)   The applicant submit a site plan and other pertinent information
demonstrating the location and type of all tables, refuse receptacles and wait
stations;
      (2)   The size of the dining area is restricted to 30% of the total
customer floor area within the principal structure;
      (3)   The dining area is screened from view from adjacent residential
uses in accordance with §
152.279 of this chapter;
      (4)   All lighting be hooded and directed away from adjacent residential
uses in accordance with §
152.187 of this chapter;
      (5)   The applicant demonstrates that pedestrian circulation is not
disrupted as a result of the outdoor dining area by providing the following:
         (a)   Outdoor dining area shall be segregated from through pedestrian
circulation by means of temporary fencing, bollards, ropes, plantings or other
methods and shall be subject to review and approval by the City Council;
         (b)   Minimum clear passage zone for pedestrians at the perimeter of
the restaurant shall be at least five feet without interference from parked
motor vehicles, bollards, trees, tree gates, curbs, stairways, trash
receptacles, street lights, parking meters or the like; and
         (c)   Overstory canopy of trees, umbrellas or other structures
extending into the pedestrian clear passage zone or pedestrian aisle shall have
a minimum clearance of seven feet above sidewalk.
      (6)   The dining area is surfaced with concrete, bituminous or decorative
pavers or may consist of a deck with wood or other flooring material that
provides a clean, attractive and functional surface;
      (7)   A minimum width of 36 inches shall be provided within aisles of the
outdoor dining area;
      (8)   Storage of furniture shall not be permitted outdoors between
November 1 and March 31. Outdoor furniture that is immovable or permanently
fixed or attached to the sidewalk shall not be subject to the storage
prohibition of this section. However, any immovable or permanently fixed or
attached furniture must be approved as part of the administrative permit
application;
      (9)   Additional off-street parking shall be required pursuant to the
requirements set forth in §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter based on the additional seating area provided by the
outdoor dining area; and
      (10)   Refuse containers are provided for self-service outdoor dining
areas. These containers shall be placed in a manner which does not disrupt
pedestrian circulation and shall be designed to prevent spillage and blowing
litter.
   (N)   Veterinary clinics (with kennels) provided that:
      (1)   All areas in which animals are confined are located indoors and are
properly soundproofed from adjacent properties;
      (2)   Animal carcasses are properly disposed of in a manner not utilizing
on-site garbage facilities or incineration and the carcasses are properly
refrigerated during periods prior to disposal;
      (3)   An animal kennel is permitted as a use accessory to the veterinary
clinic provided that:
         (a)   The number of animals boarded shall not exceed 20;
         (b)   An indoor exercise area shall be provided to accommodate the
periodic exercising of animals boarded at the kennel. No outdoor exercising of
animals shall be permitted;
         (c)   A ventilation system shall be designed so that no odors or
organisms will spread between wards or to the outside air and will be capable
of completely exchanging internal air at a rate of at least twice per hour. Air
temperature must be maintained between 60°F and 75°F;
         (d)   A room separate from the kennel area shall be provided of
sufficient size to adequately separate animals that are sick or injured from
healthy animals;
         (e)   Indoor animal kennel floors and walls shall be made of nonporous
materials or sealed concrete to make it nonporous; and
         (f)   Animal wastes shall be flushed down an existing sanitary sewer
system or enclosed in a container of sufficient construction to eliminate odors
and organisms and shall be properly disposed of at least once a day.
      (4)   The appropriate license is obtained from the City Administrator and
the conditions of the city code relating to the keeping of animals are
satisfactorily met; and
      (5)   All State Health Department and State Pollution Control Agency
requirements for the facilities are met.
   (O)   Mini self-storage facilities provided that:
      (1)   At least 25% of the site is open green space which is sodded or
seeded and with reasonable landscaping provided in accordance with a plan
approved by the City Council. To satisfy this 25% threshold standard, pervious
surface area that is provided in conjunction with an approved plan for storm
drainage may be included in the calculation;
      (2)   No buildings shall be located closer than 25 feet to each other to
allow for parking, loading, driveway and fire lanes;
      (3)   No single building shall be greater than 150 feet in length;
      (4)   Adequate space is provided for snow storage;
      (5)   All structures are to be within 300 feet of a fire hydrant as
required by the Minnesota State Fire Marshal;
      (6)   If required by the Minnesota State Fire Marshal, all storage
buildings (Group S-1 occupancy) are to be equipped with an approved fire
suppression system which will be subject to review and approval of the City
Building Official and the Fire Department;
      (7)   If required by the Minnesota State Building Code, every 2,000
square feet of the storage structure is to be separated by a fire wall and a
complete and comprehensive fire alarm system with smoke detectors shall be
initiated in each structure subject to the review and approval of the Fire
Department;
      (8)   All driveways are to be hard (blacktop or concrete) surfaced and
adequate turning radius for fire truck maneuverability is to be maintained
throughout the site. Designated snow storage space is to be provided to insure
adequate and safe access during winter months;
      (9)   If an on-premises caretaker dwelling unit is provided on site,
construction of the dwelling unit shall conform to all design standard
regulations for multiple-family dwelling units of the Minnesota State Building
Code;
      (10)   Any structures having exposure to an adjacent residential use or
public right-of-way, park or similar public use areas shall be of brick,
natural stone, wood or stucco facing material or alternatively must be
adequately screened;
      (11)   Except for periodic and temporary outside or garage sale events,
no retailing or activity other than storage is to occur within the self-
storage, mini warehousing facility unless so authorized by the conditional use
permit;
      (12)   Any area within the development site that is designated and
approved for outside storage will be secured by fencing. The area approved for
outside storage may also be subject to additional performance standards
relating to screening, maintenance and surfacing;
      (13)   The site plan is designed to direct traffic to a primary point or
limited points of access to the mini self-storage facilities and provides
acceptable location for directory signage;
      (14)   Signage will be evaluated in accordance with applicable
requirements of the sign ordinance and will be authorized by the conditional
use permit.
   (P)   Bottling establishments to include beverages such as soft drinks, milk
and the like, but not including hazardous or toxic materials.
   (Q)   Assembly of a wide variety of products that produces no exterior
noise, glare, fumes, obnoxious products, by-products or wastes or creates other
objectionable impact on the environment, including the generation of large
volumes of traffic. Examples of these uses are: (1) assembly of small products
such as optical, electronic, pharmaceutical, medical supplies equipment; and
(2) printing and publishing operations.
   (R)   Mass transit terminals.
   (S)   Radio and television terminals.
   (T)   Trade schools/specialty schools.
   (U)   Warehousing and distribution facilities but not including truck
terminals.
   (V)   Wholesale businesses.
   (W)   Truck terminals provided that:
      (1)   Vehicular access points shall be located along arterial streets and
shall be limited and designed and constructed to create a minimum of conflict
with through traffic movement and shall be subject to approval of the City
Engineer;
      (2)   A drainage system subject to the approval of the City Engineer
shall be installed;
      (3)   Storage areas are landscaped, fenced and screened from view of
neighboring uses, abutting residential zoning districts and public rights-of-
way in compliance with §
152.278 of this chapter;
      (4)   At the boundaries of the lot, the following landscape area shall be
required:
         (a)   From side and rear property lines, an area of not less than ten
feet wide shall be landscaped in compliance with §
152.278 of this chapter;
         (b)   From all road rights-of-way, an area of not less than 15 feet
wide shall be landscaped in compliance with §
152.278 of this chapter;
         (c)   Where lots abut residential zoned property, a buffer yard of not
less than 20 feet wide shall be landscaped and screened in accordance with §
152.278 of this chapter; and
         (d)   The property owner shall be responsible for maintenance of all
landscaping, including within the boulevard.
      (5)   Traffic sight visibility shall be maintained in compliance with §
152.186 of this chapter;
      (6)   Provisions are made to control and minimize noise, air and water
pollution;
      (7)   Crude oil, gasoline or other liquid storage tanks as an accessory
use (not for providing service to the general public) provided that:
         (a)   All applicable state Pollution Control Agency requirements are
satisfactorily met;
         (b)   All crude oil, gasoline or other liquid storage tanks shall be
located in the rear yard not less than 25 feet from any property boundary lines
and set back 150 feet from any adjoining residential zoning district. No tanks
shall be permitted in the front yard or side yard abutting public rights-of-
way;
         (c)   Storage tanks shall be surrounded by 25 feet of open area.
Approved parking must be setback ten feet from any storage tank;
         (d)   Storage tanks shall be set back from existing structures, as
outlined in the Fire Code, based on tank size;
         (e)   Storage tanks shall not interfere with site circulation,
including, but not limited to, parking, driveway, curb cuts and loading area;
         (f)   A wire weave/chain link security fence shall be required around
all storage tanks. The location of the fence shall be as per the Uniform Fire
Code;
         (g)   Storage sites shall be accessible by service and emergency
vehicles;
         (h)   All filling values of the storage tanks shall be enclosed and
have locking devices;
         (i)   A warning sign shall be required for every tank and shall be
placed in a conspicuous location, directly on the tank indicating a supplier’s
name, address, phone number, that highly flammable and dangerous material is
stored therein and that no smoking requirements shall be observed or a
sufficient warning to that effect. The signage may not exceed four square feet
nor may it be used for advertising purposes;
      (8)   All storage and parking areas are blacktopped or concrete surfaced
unless specifically approved by the City Council;
      (9)   All lighting shall be in compliance with §
152.187 of this chapter or other lighting standards in place at the time of
project approval. A comprehensive lighting plan shall be submitted as part of
the conditional use permit application. Maximum site illumination shall not
exceed four-tenths foot candle at ground level when measured at any boundary
line with an adjoining residential property or any public property; and
      (10)   All conditions pertaining to a specific site are subject to change
when the Council, upon investigation in relation to a formal request, finds
that the general welfare or public betterment can be served as well or better
by modifying the conditions.
   (X)   Automobile sales; outdoor; provided that:
      (1)   Vehicular access points shall be located along arterial streets and
shall be limited and designed and constructed to create a minimum of conflict
with through traffic movement and shall be subject to approval of the City
Engineer;
      (2)   A drainage system subject to the approval of the City Engineer
shall be installed;
      (3)   Storage areas are landscaped, fenced and screened from view of
neighboring uses, abutting residential zoning districts and public rights-of-
way in compliance with § 152.278 of this chapter;
      (4)   Traffic sight visibility shall be maintained in compliance with §
152.186 of this chapter;
      (5)   Provisions are made to control and minimize noise, air and water
pollution;
      (6)   All storage and parking areas are blacktopped or concrete surfaced
unless specifically approved by the City Council;
      (7)   Parking or automobile storage space shall be screened from view of
abutting residential districts in compliance with §§ 152.275 through 152.281 of
this chapter;
      (8)   At the boundaries of the lot, the following landscape area shall be
required:
         (a)   From side and rear property lines, an area of not less than ten
feet wide shall be landscaped in compliance with § 152.278 of this chapter;
         (b)   From all road rights-of-way, an area of not less than 15 feet
wide shall be landscaped in compliance with § 152.278 of this chapter;
2022 S-3
   Zoning   338E
         (c)   Where lots abut residential zoned property, a buffer yard of not
less than 20 feet wide shall be landscaped and screened in accordance with §
152.278 of this chapter; and
         (d)   The property owner shall be responsible for maintenance of all
landscaping, including within the boulevard;
      (9)   All lighting shall be in compliance with § 152.187 of this chapter
or other lighting standards in place at the time of project approval. A
comprehensive lighting plan shall be submitted as part of the conditional use
permit application. Maximum site illumination shall not exceed four-tenths foot
candle at ground level when measured at any boundary line with an adjoining
residential property or any public property; and
      (10)   All conditions pertaining to a specific site are subject to change
when the Council, upon investigation in relation to a formal request, finds
that the general welfare or public betterment can be served as well or better
by modifying the conditions.
(Prior Code, § 11-61-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 322, passed 9-4-2012;
Ord. 330, passed 5-7-2013; Ord. 347, passed 9-20-2016; Ord. 381, passed 12-7-
2021)
§ 152.649 INTERIM USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are interim
uses in a B-2 District and require an interim use permit based upon procedures
set forth in and regulated by §§
152.085 through
152.089 of this chapter: none.
(Prior Code, § 11-61-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.650 USES BY ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following uses are
allowed by administrative permit in a B-2 District based upon procedures set
forth in and regulated by §§
152.115 through
152.118 of this chapter:
   (A)   Essential services, except transmission pipelines and transmission or
substation lines in excess of 33kV and up to 100kV, as regulated by §§
152.385 through
152.389 of this chapter;
   (B)   Open or outdoor sales, rental or display as an accessory use in
association with an allowed principal use provided that:
      (1)   The area so occupied shall not exceed 10% of the principal
building;
      (2)   No storage or display of merchandise shall be permitted in required
rear, side or front yards and shall be limited to the area of the customer
entrances; and
      (3)   The outdoor sales, rental or display area shall be included in the
calculations for parking spaces required for the use and shall not occupy space
required for parking as stipulated by §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter, except as may be exempted for cause by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (C)   Other uses of the same general character as those listed as a
permitted use in this district;
   (D)   Personal wireless service antennas located upon an existing structure
or tower or temporary mobile tower as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter;
   (E)   Temporary, outdoor promotional events and sales provided that:
      (1)   The event shall not exceed the period specified in the
administrative permit. In no case shall the event exceed 30-consecutive
calendar days per event;
      (2)   There shall be no more than two promotional events per calendar
year per property; and
      (3)   Signage related to the event shall be in compliance with the
temporary sign standards of §§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter and shall be allowed for the duration of the event.
Special signage for purposes of traffic direction and control may be authorized
by the Zoning Administrator; the erection and removal of the signage shall be
the responsibility of the applicant.
   (F)   Temporary structures as regulated by §§
152.205 through
152.216 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-61-6) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.651 LOT REQUIREMENTS AND SETBACKS.
   The following minimum requirements shall be observed in a B-2 District
subject to additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in
this chapter.
 
Lot area      20,000 square feet
Lot width     80 feet
Setbacks
   Front ya30 feet
   Rear yar20 feet or 30 feet if abutting a residential zoned property
   Side yar10 feet on any one side or 20 feet on the side yard abutting a
              street or residential zoned property
 
(Prior Code, § 11-61-7) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.652 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Height. All buildings shall be limited to three stories or 35 feet in
height.
   (B)   Minimum floor area. One thousand square feet.
(Prior Code, § 11-61-8) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.653 IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE.
   In no event shall off-street parking space, structures of any type,
buildings or other features cover more than 75% of the lot area resulting in
less than 25% pervious landscaped area.
(Prior Code, § 11-61-9) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
I-1, LIMITED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.665 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the I-1, Limited Industrial District is to provide for less
intensive types of industrial uses which, because of their proximity to
residential areas or other sensitive uses, are less likely to impose
objectionable influences, such as noise, vibrations, dust, heat, smoke, odor
and the like.
(Prior Code, § 11-70-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.666 PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following uses are
permitted uses in an I-1 District:
   (A)   Bottling establishments to include beverages such as soft drinks, milk
and the like, but not including hazardous or toxic materials;
   (B)   Building material sales;
   (C)   Carpet and rug cleaning;
   (D)   Feed and seed sales;
   (E)   Greenhouses, nurseries;
   (F)   Laundry, dry cleaning or dying plant;
   (G)   Machine shops and metal products manufacturing when not equipped with
heavy (exceeding 50 ton pressure) punch presses, drop forges, riveting and
grinding machines or any equipment which may create noise, vibration, smoke,
odors, heat or glare and the like, disturbing to adjacent property occupants;
   (H)   Manufacturing or assembly of a wide variety of products that produces
no exterior noise, glare, fumes, obnoxious products, by-products or wastes or
creates other objectionable impact on the environment, including the generation
of large volumes of traffic. Examples of these uses are:
      (1)   Fabrication or assembly of small products such as optical,
electronic, pharmaceutical, medical supplies and equipment;
      (2)   Printing and publishing; and
      (3)   Product assembly.
   (I)   Mass transmit terminals;
   (J)   Professional offices;
   (K)   Radio and television stations;
   (L)   Recreational business contained entirely within the principal
building;
   (M)   Shops and offices for contractors including plumbing, heating,
glazing, painting, paper hanging, roofing, ventilating, electrical, carpentry,
welding, landscaping, excavating and general contracting, including contractor
storage of equipment and building materials if enclosed within a building, but
not storage yards;
   (N)   Trade schools/specialty schools;
   (O)   Warehousing and distribution facilities but not including truck
terminals or mini self-storage facilities; and
   (P)   Wholesale businesses and offices.
(Prior Code, § 11-70-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.667 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
permitted accessory uses in an I-1 District:
   (A)   Fences as regulated by §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter;
   (B)   Off-street parking and loading as regulated by §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter, but not including semitrailer trucks, except in
designated loading areas not to exceed four hours;
   (C)   Secondary or accessory use antennas or satellites as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter; and
   (D)   Signs as regulated by §§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-70-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.668 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
conditional uses in an I-1 District and require a conditional use permit based
upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §§
152.070 through
152.074 of this chapter:
   (A)   Accessory, indoor retail, rental or service activity other than that
allowed as a permitted use or conditional use within this chapter, provided
that:
      (1)   The use is accessory and related to the permitted industrial use
allowed within an I-1 District; and
      (2)   The use does not constitute more than 30% of the lot area and not
more than 30% of the gross floor area of the principal building.
   (B)   Automobile repair, major and minor, provided that:
      (1)   Landscaping and screening not less than five feet in width shall be
provided at the boundaries abutting a residential zoning district in compliance
with §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter;
      (2)   Parking or automobile storage space shall be screened from view of
abutting residential districts in compliance with §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter;
      (3)   Regardless of whether the dispensing, sale or offering for sale of
motor fuels and/or oil is incidental to the conduct of the use or business, the
standards and requirements imposed by this chapter for motor fuel stations
shall apply. These standards and requirements are, however, in addition to
other requirements that are imposed for other uses of the property;
      (4)   All painting shall be conducted in an approved paint booth. All
paint booths and all other activities of the operation shall thoroughly control
the emission of fumes, dust or other particulate matter so that the use shall
be in compliance with the State Pollution Control Standards, Minn. Regulations
APC 1-15, as amended;
      (5)   All flammable materials, including liquids and rags, shall conform
with the applicable provisions of the State Uniform Fire Code; and
      (6)   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise.
   (C)   Essential services involving transmission pipelines and transmission
or substation lines in excess of 33kV and up to 100kV, as regulated by §§
152.385 through
152.389 of this chapter;
   (D)   Mini self-storage facilities provided that:
      (1)   At least 25% of the site is open green space which is sodded and
intensely landscaped in accordance with a plan approved by the City Council;
      (2)   No buildings shall be located closer than 25 feet to each other to
allow for parking, loading, driveway and fire lanes;
      (3)   No single building shall be greater than 150 feet in length;
      (4)   Adequate space is provided for snow storage;
      (5)   All structures are to be within 200 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (6)   All storage buildings are to be equipped with an approved fire
suppression system which will be subject to review and approval of the City
Building Official and the Fire Department;
      (7)   Every 2,000 square feet of the storage structure is to be separated
by a fire wall and a complete and comprehensive fire alarm system with smoke
detectors shall be initiated in each structure subject to the review and
approval of the Fire Department;
      (8)   All driveways and parking areas are to be hard (blacktop or
concrete) surfaced and adequate turning radius for fire truck maneuverability
is to be maintained throughout the site. Designated snow storage space is to be
provided to insure adequate and safe access during winter months;
      (9)   If an on-premises caretaker dwelling unit is provided on site,
construction of the dwelling unit shall conform to all design standard
regulations for multiple-family dwelling units of the State Building Code;
      (10)   Any structures having exposure to an adjacent residential use or
public right-of-way, park or similar public use areas shall be of brick,
natural stone, wood or stucco facing material; and
      (11)   No retailing, wholesaling, manufacturing, repair or other activity
other than storage is to occur within the self storage, mini warehousing
facility.
   (E)   Motor fuel stations provided the following:
      (1)   Motor fuel facilities. Motor fuel facilities shall be installed in
accordance with state and city standards. Additionally, adequate space shall be
provided to access fuel pumps and allow maneuverability around the pumps.
Underground fuel storage tanks are to be positioned to allow adequate access by
motor fuel transports and unloading operations which do not conflict with
circulation, access and other activities on the site. Fuel pumps shall be
installed on pump islands;
      (2)   Architectural standards.
         (a)   As a part of the conditional use permit application, a color
illustration of all building elevations shall be submitted;
         (b)   The architectural appearance, scale and functional plan of the
building(s) and canopy shall be complementary and compatible with each other
and the existing buildings in the neighborhood setting;
         (c)   All sides of the principal and accessory structures are to have
essentially the same or a coordinated harmonious finish treatment pursuant to §
152.208 of this chapter; and
         (d)   Exterior wall treatments like brick, stone (natural or
artificial), decorative concrete block and stucco shall be used.
      (3)   Canopy. A protective canopy structure may be located over the pump
island(s), as an accessory structure. The canopy shall meet the following
performance standards:
         (a)   The edge of the canopy shall be 30 feet or more from the front
and/or side lot line, provided that adequate visibility both on-site and off-
site is maintained;
         (b)   The canopy shall not exceed 18 feet in height and shall provide
14 feet of clearance to accommodate a semitrailer truck passing underneath;
         (c)   The canopy fascia shall not exceed three feet in vertical
height;
         (d)   Canopy lighting shall consist of canister spotlights recessed
into the canopy. No portion of the light source or fixture may extend below the
ceiling of the canopy. Total canopy illumination may not exceed 115 foot
candles below the canopy at ground level;
         (e)   The architectural design, colors and character of the canopy
shall be consistent with the principal building on the site;
         (f)   Signage may be allowed on a detached canopy in lieu of wall
signage on the principal structure, provided that the individual canopy sign
does not exceed more than 20% of the canopy facade facing a public right-of-
way; and
         (g)   Canopy posts/sign posts shall not obstruct traffic or the safe
operation of the gas pumps.
      (4)   Pump islands. Pump islands shall comply with the following
performance standards:
         (a)   Pump islands shall be elevated six inches above the traveled
surface of the site; and
         (b)   All pump islands shall be set at least 30 feet back from any
property line. Additionally, the setback between the pump islands curb face
shall be at least 24 feet.
      (5)   Dust control and drainage. The entire site other than taken up by a
building, structure or plantings shall be surfaced with asphalt, concrete,
cobblestone or paving brick. Plans for surfacing and drainage shall be subject
to approval of the City Engineer. Drainage from all fueling areas shall be
directed to an oil/grit separator. Minimum design standards for the oil/grit
separator shall include the following:
         (a)   A minimum of 400 cubic feet of permanent pool storage capacity
per acre of drainage area;
         (b)   A minimum pool depth of four feet;
         (c)   A minimum oil containment capacity of 800 gallons; and
         (d)   Minimum maintenance/inspection of two times per year and/or
after measurable spill events. A measurable spill shall be defined by the State
Pollution Control Agency (MPCA). Any measurable spill event must be reported to
the MPCA.
      (6)   Landscaping.
         (a)   At least 35% of the lot, parcel or tract of land used
exclusively for the gas sales facility shall remain as a grass plot, including
trees, shrubbery, plantings or fencing and shall be landscaped. Required
minimum green area should be emphasized in the front and side yards abutting
streets or residential property; and
         (b)   At the boundaries of the lot, the following landscape area shall
be required:
            1.   From side and rear property lines, an area of not less than
ten feet wide shall be landscaped in compliance with §
152.278 of this chapter;
            2.   From all road rights-of-way, an area of not less than 15 feet
wide shall be landscaped in compliance with §
152.278 of this chapter;
            3.   Where lots abut residential zoned property, a buffer yard of
not less than 20 feet wide shall be landscaped and screened in accordance with
§
152.278 of this chapter; and
            4.   The property owner shall be responsible for maintenance of all
landscaping, including within the boulevard.
      (7)   Exterior lighting. The lighting shall be in compliance with §
152.187 of this chapter. A comprehensive lighting plan shall be submitted as
part of the conditional use permit application and shall be subject to the
following performance standards:
         (a)   Canopy lighting. Canopy lighting under the canopy structure
shall consist of canister spotlights recessed into the canopy. No portion of
the light source or fixture may extend below the ceiling of the canopy. Total
canopy illumination below the canopy may not exceed 115 foot candles at ground
level;
         (b)   Perimeter lighting. Lighting at the periphery of the site and
building shall be directed downward and individual lights shall not exceed 15
foot candles at ground level;
         (c)   Illumination. Maximum site illumination shall not exceed four-
tenths foot candle at ground level when measured at any boundary line with an
adjoining residential property or any public property; and
         (d)   Access. Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of
conflict with through traffic movement and shall comply with §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter.
      (8)   Circulation and loading. The site design shall accommodate adequate
turning radius and vertical clearance for a semitrailer truck. Designated
loading areas shall be exclusive of off-street parking stalls and drive aisles.
A site plan shall be provided to illustrate adequate turning radius, using
appropriate engineering templates;
      (9)   Parking.
         (a)   Parking spaces shall be calculated solely based upon the use(s)
and the square footage of the principal building(s); and
         (b)   Parking spaces shall be screened from abutting residential
properties in accordance with §
152.279 of this chapter.
      (10)   Noise. Public address system shall not be audible at any property
line. Playing of music or advertisement from the public address system is
prohibited. Noise control shall be required as regulated in §
152.191 of this chapter;
      (11)   Outside storage, sales and service. No outside storage or sales
shall be allowed, except as follows:
         (a)   Public phones may be located on site as long as they do not
interrupt on-site traffic circulation and are not located in a yard abutting
residentially zoned property;
         (b)   Propane sales of 20 pound capacity tanks may be located outside
provided the propane tanks are secured in a locker and meet all State Uniform
Building and Fire Codes;
         (c)   A compressed air service area may be located on site as long as
it does not interrupt on-site traffic circulation; and
         (d)   Accessory outdoor services, sales or rental as regulated by §
152.650(B) of this chapter;
      (12)   Litter control. The operation shall be responsible for litter
control on the subject property, which is to occur on a daily basis. Trash
receptacles shall be provided at a convenient location on site to facilitate
litter control; and
      (13)   Additional stipulations. All conditions pertaining to a specific
site are subject to change when the City Council, upon investigation in
relation to a formal request, finds that the general welfare and public
betterment can be served as well or better by modifying or expanding the
conditions set forth herein.
   (F)   Open and outdoor storage (not outdoor sales lots) as an accessory use
provided that:
      (1)   The storage area is landscaped and screened from view of
neighboring uses, residential zoning districts and public rights-of-way per §
152.279 of this chapter;
      (2)   The storage area is fenced in a manner approved by the city;
      (3)   Storage area is blacktopped or concrete surfaced unless
specifically approved by the City Council;
      (4)   All lighting shall be in compliance with §
152.187 of this chapter or other lighting standards in place at the time of
project approval;
      (5)   The storage area does not take up parking space as required for
conformity to this chapter;
      (6)   The property shall not abut property zoned for residential or
business use;
      (7)   The storage area is not located in a front yard;
      (8)   The storage area shall not abut a school or a public park; and
      (9)   Storage shall not include material considered hazardous under
federal or state environmental law.
   (G)   Personal wireless service antennas not located on an existing
structure or tower as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter;
   (H)   Planned unit development as regulated in §§
152.150 through
152.153 of this chapter; and
   (I)   Veterinary clinics (with kennels) provided that:
      (1)   All areas in which animals are confined are located indoors and are
properly soundproofed from adjacent properties;
      (2)   Animal carcasses are properly disposed of in a manner not utilizing
on site garbage facilities or incineration and the carcasses are properly
refrigerated during periods prior to disposal;
      (3)   An animal kennel is permitted as a use accessory to the veterinary
clinic provided that:
         (a)   The number of animals boarded shall not exceed 20;
         (b)   An indoor exercise area shall be provided to accommodate the
periodic exercising of animals boarded at the kennel. No outdoor exercising of
animals shall be permitted;
         (c)   A ventilation system shall be designed so that no odors or
organisms will spread between wards or to the outside air and will be capable
of completely exchanging internal air at a rate of at least twice per hour. Air
temperature must be maintained between 60°F and 75°F;
         (d)   A room separate from the kennel area shall be provided of
sufficient size to adequately separate animals that are sick or injured from
healthy animals;
         (e)   Indoor animal kennel floors and walls shall be made of nonporous
materials or sealed concrete to make it nonporous; and
         (f)   Animal wastes shall be flushed down an existing sanitary sewer
system or enclosed in a container of sufficient construction to eliminate odors
and organisms and shall be properly disposed of at least once a day.
      (4)   The appropriate license is obtained from the City Administrator and
the conditions of the city code relating to the keeping of animals are
satisfactorily met; and
      (5)   All State Health Department and State Pollution Control Agency
requirements for those facilities are met.
(Prior Code, § 11-70-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.669 INTERIM USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are interim
uses in an I-1 District and require an interim use permit based upon procedures
set forth inland regulated by §§
152.085 through
152.089 of this chapter: none.
(Prior Code, § 11-70-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.670 USES BY ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following uses are
allowed by administrative permit in an I-1 District based upon procedures set
forth in and regulated by §§
152.115 through
152.118 of this chapter:
   (A)   Essential services, except transmission pipelines and transmission or
substation lines in excess of 33kV and up to 100kV, as regulated by §§
152.385 through
152.389 of this chapter;
   (B)   Personal wireless service antennas located upon an existing structure
or tower or temporary mobile tower as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter; and
   (C)   Temporary structures as regulated by §§
152.205 through
152.216 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-70-6) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.671 LOT REQUIREMENTS AND SETBACKS.
   The following minimum requirements shall be observed in an I-1 District
subject to additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in
this chapter.
 
Minimum lot area  20,000 square feet
Minimum lot width 100 feet
Minimum setbacks
   Front yard  30 feet
   Rear yard   30 feet
   Side yard   20 feet or 30 feet on the side yard abutting a public right-
                  of-way or 30 feet if abutting a residential district
 
(Prior Code, § 11-70-7) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.672 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Building height. All buildings shall be limited to four stories or 45
feet in height.
   (B)   Minimum floor area. One thousand square feet.
   (C)   Exterior building elevations.
      (1)   Within the I-1 Zoning District, all exterior wall surfaces shall be
consistent with the requirements of §
152.208 of this chapter.
      (2)   Accessory buildings shall be constructed of building materials to
match the principal structure and comply with the building material
requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   In all zoning districts, mechanical equipment such as heating,
ventilation or air conditioning units located anywhere on the property shall be
screened and painted to match the building exterior.
   (D)   Impervious surface. In no event shall off-street parking space,
structures of any type, buildings or other features cover more than 80% of the
lot area resulting in less than 20% pervious landscaped area.
(Prior Code, § 11-70-8) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 267, passed 10-19-
2006)
I-2, GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.685 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the I-2, General Industrial District is to provide for the
establishment of industrial uses of a more intense nature development in areas
guided for industrial land use by the Comprehensive Plan.
(Prior Code, § 11-71-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.686 PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
permitted uses in an I-2 District:
   (A)   Bottling establishments to include beverages such as soft drinks, milk
and the like, but not including hazardous or toxic materials;
   (B)   Building material sales;
   (C)   Essential services;
   (D)   Feed and seed sales;
   (E)   Government and public utility buildings and/or structures;
   (E)   Greenhouses, nurseries;
   (F)   Laundry, dry cleaning or dying plant;
   (G)   Machine shops and metal products manufacturing when not equipped with
heavy (exceeding 50 ton pressure) punch presses, drop forges, riveting and
grinding machines or any equipment which may create noise, vibration, smoke,
odors, heat or glare and the like, disturbing to adjacent property occupants;
   (H)   Manufacturing or assembly of a wide variety of products that produces
no exterior noise, glare, fumes, obnoxious products, by-products or wastes or
creates other objectionable impact on the environment, including the generation
of large volumes of traffic. Examples of these uses are:
      (1)   Fabrication or assembly of small products such as optical,
electronic, pharmaceutical, medical supplies and equipment; and
      (2)   Printing and publishing.
   (I)   Mass transmit terminals;
   (J)   Professional offices;
   (K)   Radio and television stations;
   (L)   Shops and offices for contractors including plumbing, heating,
glazing, painting, paper hanging, roofing, ventilating, electrical, carpentry,
welding, landscaping, excavating and general contracting, including contractor
storage of equipment and building materials if enclosed within a building, but
not storage yards;
   (M)   Truck terminals;
   (N)   Warehousing and distribution facilities but not including mini self-
storage facilities; and
   (O)   Wholesale businesses and offices.
(Prior Code, § 11-71-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.687 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
permitted accessory uses in an I-2 District:
   (A)   Fences as regulated by §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter;
   (B)   Off-street parking and loading as regulated by §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter, including semitrailer trucks;
   (C)   Secondary or accessory use antennas and satellite TVROs, as regulated
by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter; and
   (D)   Signs as regulated by §§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-71-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.688 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are
conditional uses in an I-2 District and require a conditional use permit based
upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §§
152.070 through
152.074 of this chapter:
   (A)   Accessory, indoor retail, rental or service activity other than that
allowed as a permitted use or conditional use within this chapter, provided
that:
      (1)   The use is accessory and related to the permitted industrial use
allowed within an I-2 District; and
      (2)   The use does not constitute more than 30% of the lot area and not
more than 30% of the gross floor area of the principal building.
   (B)   Commercial and public radio and television transmitting antennas and
public utility microwave antennas, as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter;
   (C)   Concrete product plants, building materials production and similar
uses provided that:
      (1)   All applicable State Pollution Control Agency requirements are
satisfactorily met;
      (2)   A drainage system subject to the approval of the City Engineer
shall be installed;
      (3)   Storage areas are landscaped, fenced and screened from view of
neighboring uses, abutting residential zoning districts and public rights-of-
way in compliance, with §
152.279 of this chapter;
      (4)   Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of conflict with
through traffic movement and shall be subject to approval of the City Engineer;
      (5)   Provisions shall be made to control and minimize noise, air and
water pollution; and
      (6)   All conditions pertaining to a specific site are subject to change
when the Council, upon investigation in relation to a formal request, finds
that the general welfare or public betterment can be served as well or better
by modifying the conditions.
   (D)   Crude oil, gasoline or other liquid storage tanks as an accessory use
(not including bulk propane at motor fuel stations for providing service to the
general public) provided that:
      (1)   All applicable State Pollution Control Agency requirements are
satisfactorily met;
      (2)   A drainage system subject to the approval of the City Engineer
shall be installed;
      (3)   Storage areas are landscaped, fenced and screened from view of
neighboring uses, abutting residential zoning districts and public rights-of-
way in compliance with §
152.279 of this chapter;
      (4)   Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of conflict with
through traffic movement and shall be subject to approval of the City Engineer;
      (5)   All crude oil, gasoline or other liquid storage tanks shall be
located in the rear yard not less than 25 feet from any property boundary lines
and set back 150 feet from any adjoining residential zoning district. No tanks
shall be permitted in the front yard or side yard abutting public rights-of-
way;
      (6)   Storage tanks shall be surrounded by 25 feet of open area. Storage
of any kind is prohibited in the open area, except equipment incidental to the
storage tank. Approved parking must be setback ten feet from any storage tank;
      (7)   Storage tanks shall be set back from existing structures, as
outlined in the Fire Code, based on tank size;
      (8)   Storage tanks shall not interfere with site circulation, including,
but not limited to, parking, driveway, curb cuts and loading area;
      (9)   A wire weave/chain link security fence shall be required around all
storage tanks. The location of the fence shall be as per the Uniform Fire Code;
      (10)   Storage sites shall be accessible by service and emergency
vehicles;
      (11)   All filling values of the storage tanks shall be enclosed and have
locking devices;
      (12)   A warning sign shall be required for every tank and shall be
placed in a conspicuous location, directly on the tank indicating a supplier's
name, address, phone number, that highly flammable and dangerous material is
stored therein and that no smoking requirements shall be observed or a
sufficient warning to that effect. The signage may not exceed four square feet
nor may it be used for advertising purposes;
      (13)   Provisions are made to control and minimize noise, air and water
pollution; and
      (14)   All conditions pertaining to a specific site are subject to change
when the Council, upon investigation in relation to a formal request, finds
that the general welfare or public betterment can be served as well or better
by modifying the conditions.
   (E)   Essential services involving transmission pipelines and transmission
or substation lines in excess of 33kV and up to 100kV, as regulated by §§
152.385 through
152.389 of this chapter;
   (F)   Manufacture of materials, including but not limited to, rubber,
corrosive acids, petroleum and chemical products, which pose potential health
and safety risks and which when produced give off potentially noxious odors
provided that:
      (1)   All applicable State Pollution Control Agency requirements are
satisfactorily met;
      (2)   A drainage system subject to the approval of the City Engineer
shall be installed;
      (3)   Storage areas are landscaped, fenced and screened from view of
neighboring uses, abutting residential zoning districts and public rights-of-
way in compliance with §
152.279 of this chapter;
      (4)   Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of conflict with
through traffic movement and shall be subject to approval of the City Engineer;
      (5)   Provisions are made to control and minimize noise, air and water
pollution;
      (6)   Exterior liquid storage tanks shall comply with the standards of §
152.192 of this chapter; and
      (7)   All conditions pertaining to a specific site are subject to change
when the Council, upon investigation in relation to a formal request, finds
that the general welfare or public betterment can be served as well or better
by modifying the conditions.
   (G)   Mini self-storage facilities provided that:
      (1)   At least 25% of the site is open green space which is sodded and
intensely landscaped in accordance with a plan approved by the City Council;
      (2)   No buildings shall be located closer than 25 feet to each other to
allow for parking, loading, driveway and fire lanes;
      (3)   No single building shall be greater than 150 feet in length;
      (4)   Adequate space is provided for snow storage;
      (5)   All structures are to be within 200 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (6)   All storage buildings are to be equipped with an approved fire
suppression system which will be subject to review and approval of the City
Building Official and the Fire Department;
      (7)   Every 2,000 square feet of the storage structure is to be separated
by a fire wall and a complete and comprehensive fire alarm system with smoke
detectors shall be initiated in each structure subject to the review and
approval of the Fire Department;
      (8)   All driveways and parking areas are to be hard (blacktop or
concrete) surfaced and adequate turning radius for fire truck maneuverability
is to be maintained throughout the site. Designated snow storage space is to be
provided to ensure adequate and safe access during winter months;
      (9)   If an on-premises caretaker dwelling unit is provided on site,
construction of the dwelling unit shall conform to all design standard
regulations for multiple-family dwelling units of the State Building Code;
      (10)   Any structures having exposure to an adjacent residential use or
public right-of-way, park or similar public use areas shall be of brick,
natural stone, wood or stucco facing material; and
      (11)   No retailing, wholesaling, manufacturing, repair or other activity
other than storage is to occur within the self storage, mini warehousing
facility.
   (H)   Open and outdoor storage (not outdoor sales lots) as an accessory use
provided that:
      (1)   The storage area is landscaped and screened from view of
neighboring uses, residential zoning districts and public rights-of-way per §
152.279 of this chapter;
      (2)   Storage area is fenced in a manner approved by the city;
      (3)   Storage area is blacktopped or concrete surfaced unless
specifically approved by the City Council;
      (4)   All lighting shall be in compliance with §
152.187 of this chapter or other lighting standards in place at the time of
project approval;
      (5)   The storage area does not take up parking space as required for
conformity to this chapter;
      (6)   The property shall not abut property zoned for residential or
business use;
      (7)   The storage area is not located in a front yard;
      (8)   The storage area shall not abut a school or a public park; and
      (9)   Storage shall not include material considered hazardous under
federal or state environmental law.
   (I)   Refuse/garbage collection provided that:
      (1)   No refuse or garbage shall be stored or in any way disposed of on
the site;
      (2)   The storage of refuse or garbage in the front yard shall be
prohibited;
      (3)   Vehicle parking and storage areas are screened from view of
neighboring uses, abutting residential zoning districts and public rights-of-
way in compliance with §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter;
      (4)   Vehicle parking/storage areas shall be hard surfaced with a
bituminous material with curb and gutter to control dust and shall be screened
from view of neighboring uses and public rights-of-way;
      (5)   The site shall be maintained free of litter and any other
undesirable materials and will be cleaned of loose debris on a daily basis;
      (6)   One off-street parking space shall be provided for each commercial
vehicle operated by the business. Parking requirements will otherwise be as
mandated by the provisions of §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter;
      (7)   All in bound and out bound trucks and equipment, excluding
employee's personal vehicles, shall be restricted to designated routes
established by the city, except for times when providing collection service to
customers within the city limits;
      (8)   The hours of operation shall be limited as necessary to minimize
the effects of nuisance factors such as traffic, noise and glare upon any
existing neighboring residential uses or residential zoning districts;
      (9)   Provisions are made to control and minimize noise, air and water
pollution; and
      (10)   All conditions pertaining to a specific site are subject to change
when the Council, upon investigation in relation to a formal request, finds
that the general welfare or public betterment can be served as well or better
by modifying the conditions.
   (J)   Satellite TVROs greater than two meters in diameter as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter;
   (K)   Truck terminals provided that:
      (1)   Vehicular access points shall be located along arterial streets and
shall be limited and designed and constructed to create a minimum of conflict
with through traffic movement;
      (2)   A drainage system subject to the approval of the City Engineer
shall be installed;
      (3)   Storage areas are landscaped, fenced and screened from view of
neighboring uses, abutting residential zoning districts and public rights-of-
way in compliance with §
152.278 of this chapter;
      (4)   Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of conflict with
through traffic movement and shall be subject to approval of the City Engineer;
      (5)   Provisions are made to control and minimize noise, air and water
pollution; and
      (6)   All conditions pertaining to a specific site are subject to change
when the Council, upon investigation in relation to a formal request, finds
that the general welfare or public betterment can be served as well or better
by modifying the conditions; and
   (L)   Sexually oriented uses as regulated by city code
Chapter 120 provided that:
      (1)   No person shall operate a sexually oriented use on property, any
part of which is within the area circumscribed by a circle which has a radius
of 700 feet from any of the uses listed directly below. Distances shall be
measured by following a straight line, without regard to intervening structures
or objects, between the closest points on the property line of the two uses.
The distance requirement applies to the following:
         (a)   Property developed or zoned for residential uses; or
         (b)   Property frequented by children or designed as a family
destination, such as a day care facility, school, library, park, playground,
nature center, religious institution or other public recreational facility.
      (2)   No person shall operate a sexually oriented use on property, any
part of which is within the area circumscribed by a circle which has a radius
of 1,000 feet (measured as described above) from another sexually oriented use.
      (3)   No sexually oriented materials shall be offered for sale or sold
except in original unopened packages.
      (4)   No owner, manager or employee of a sexually oriented use shall have
been convicted of a sex crime, as identified in Minnesota Statutes dealing with
sexual assault, sexual conduct, harassment, obscenity, or domestic abuse.
      (5)   No sexually oriented materials or entertainment shall be used on
any sign or window display.
      (6)   No owner, manager or employee of a sexually oriented use shall
engage in any activity or conduct or permit any other person to engage in any
activity or conduct in or about the establishment which is prohibited by any
ordinance of the city, the laws of the State of Minnesota, or the United States
of America. Nothing in this division (L)(6) shall be construed to authorize or
permit conduct which is prohibited or regulated by other statutes or
ordinances, including but not limited to statutes or ordinances prohibiting the
exhibition, sale or distribution of obscene material generally, or the
exhibition, sale or distribution of specified materials to minors.
      (7)   No person under the age of 18 shall be allowed on the premises.
      (8)   No sexually oriented materials or entertainment shall be visible or
perceivable in any manner, including aurally, at any time from the outside of
the building.
      (9)   Screening shall be installed and maintained in compliance with §
152.279
      (10)   Each use shall display a sign on its main entrance door which
reads: “This business sells sexually oriented material or entertainment.
Persons under 18 years of age are prohibited from entering.” The sign letters
shall be a minimum of two inches high.
      (11)   No sexually oriented use shall exceed 10,000 square feet in gross
floor area.
      (12)   No patron, employee or other person may physically contact any
specified anatomical area of himself or herself, or of any other person, except
that a live performer may touch himself or herself.
      (13)   Each live performer shall remain at all times a minimum distance
of ten feet from all members of the audience, and shall perform on a platform
intended for that purpose, which shall be raised at least two feet from the
level of the floor on which the audience is located. No performer may solicit
or accept any pay, tip, or other item from any member of the audience.
      (14)   No use shall have any booths, stalls or partitions which separate
any area from a general public room. The restrictions of this division (L)(14)
do not apply to restrooms, storage rooms, or private offices of the owner,
manager or employees of the use, if such storage rooms or offices are used
solely for the running the use and no person other than the owner, manager and
employees is allowed in the storage rooms or offices.
      (15)   The use and the owner must be licensed as required by any federal,
state or local licensing regulations.
      (16)   All conditions pertaining to a specific site are subject to change
when the Council, upon investigation in relation to a formal request, finds
that the general welfare or public betterment can be served as well or better
by modifying the conditions.
      (17)   All exterior lighting shall be in compliance with § 152.187 of
this chapter. A comprehensive lighting plan shall be submitted as part of the
conditional use permit application and maximum site illumination shall not
exceed four-tenths foot candle at ground level when measured at any boundary
line of the property.
(Prior Code, § 11-71-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 378, passed 10-5-2021)
§ 152.689 INTERIM USES.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following are interim
uses in an I-2 District and require an interim use permit based upon procedures
set forth in and regulated by §§
152.085 through
152.089 of this chapter: none.
(Prior Code, § 11-71-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.690 USES BY ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT.
   Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the following uses are
allowed by administrative permit in an I-2 District based upon procedures set
forth in and regulated by §§
152.115 through
152.118 of this chapter:
   (A)   Essential services, except transmission pipelines and transmission or
substation lines in excess of 33kV and up to 100kV, as regulated by §§
152.385 through
152.389 of this chapter;
   (B)   Personal wireless service antennas including temporary mobile towers,
as regulated by §§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter; and
   (C)   Temporary structures as regulated by §§
152.205 through
152.216 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-71-6) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.691 LOT REQUIREMENTS AND SETBACKS.
   The following minimum requirements shall be observed in an I-2 District
subject to additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in
this chapter.
 
Minimum lot area  40,000 square feet
Minimum lot width 100 feet
Minimum setbacks
   Front       40 feet
   Rear        30 feet or 40 feet if abutting a residential district
   Side        20 feet or 40 feet on the side yard abutting a public right-
                  of-way or 30 feet if abutting a residential district
 
(Prior Code, § 11-71-7) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.692 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Building height. All buildings shall be limited to four stories or 45
feet in height.
   (B)   Minimum floor area. One thousand square feet.
   (C)   Exterior building elevations.
      (1)   Within the I-2 Zoning District, all exterior wall surfaces shall be
consistent with the requirements of §
152.208 of this chapter.
      (2)   Accessory buildings shall be constructed of building materials to
match the principal structure and comply with the building material
requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   In all zoning districts, mechanical equipment such as heating,
ventilation or air conditioning units located anywhere on the property shall be
screened and painted to match the building exterior.
   (D)   Impervious surface. In no event shall off-street parking space,
structures of any type, buildings or other features cover more than 80% of the
lot area resulting in less than 20% pervious landscaped area.
(Prior Code, § 11-71-8) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 267, passed 10-19-
2006)
PUD, PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
§ 152.705 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the PUD, Planned Unit Development District is to provide for
the integration and coordination of land parcels, as well as the combination of
mixture of varying types of residential, commercial and/or industrial land
uses.
(Prior Code, § 11-75-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.706 PERMITTED USES.
   All permitted, permitted accessory or conditional uses contained in all
zoning districts identified in §§
152.460 through
152.467,
152.480 through
152.487,
152.500 through
152.507,
152.520 through
152.527,
152.540 through
152.549,
152.560 through
152.570,
152.585 through
152.590,
152.605 through
152.612,
152.625 through
152.632,
152.645 through
152.653,
152.665 through
152.672 and
152.685 through
152.692 of this chapter shall be directed as permitted uses within the PUD
District.
(Prior Code, § 11-75-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.707 SPECIAL PROCEDURES.
   The establishment of a Planned Unit Development District shall be subject to
the procedural and administrative requirements in §§
152.150 through
152.153 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-75-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.708 SOUTHEAST CAMPUS PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Southeast Campus PLJD District is to
provide for a hospital campus and uses that are compatible with and support the
hospital and to exclude incompatible uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter, the
following are permitted uses in the Southeast Campus PUD:
      (1)   Essential services.
   (C)   Conditional uses. Subject to applicable provisions of this chapter,
the following are conditional uses in the Southeast Campus PUD District and
require a conditional use permit based upon the procedures set forth in and
regulated by §§
152.070 through
152.074 of this chapter:
      (1)   Hospitals;
      (2)   Office business clinic;
      (3)   Office business general;
      (4)   Multiple family dwellings, including apartments and townhomes with
amaximum density of 17 units per acre;
      (5)   Research and development businesses that employ engineers,
scientists and others to design produce and market new products and knowledge.
   (D)   Permitted accessory uses. Subject to applicable provisions of this
chapter, the following are permitted accessory uses in the Southeast Campus PUD
District:
      (1)   Commercial accessory buildings and structures, provided that the
accessory building or structure shall not exceed 30% of the gross floor space
of the principal building;
      (2)   Fences as regulated by §§
152.275 through
152.281 of this chapter;
      (3)   Off-street parking and loading as regulated by §§
152.255 through
152.264 of this chapter, but not including semi-trailer trucks, except in
designated loading areas not to exceed four hours;
      (4)   Secondary or accessory use antennas or satellites as regulated by
§§
152.330 through
152.337 of this chapter;
      (5)   Signs as regulated by §§
152.350 through
152.359 of this chapter;
      (6)   Accessory uses, buildings and structures customarily incidental and
directly related to multiple family residential developments.
   (E)   Sexually oriented uses. Sexually oriented uses are prohibited.
   (F)   Lot requirements and setbacks. The following minimum requirements
shall be observed in the Southeast Campus PUD District subject to additional
requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this chapter.
 
Minimum lot area  40,000 square feet
Minimum lot depth 300 feet
Minimum lot width 100 feet
Minimum setbacks
   Front       30 feet
   Rear        30 feet
   Side        15 feet; 30 feet abutting a public ROW
 
   (G)   Building/impervious surface requirements. The following building/
impervious surface requirements shall be observed in the Southeast Campus MD
District:
      (1)   All structures shall be limited to a maximum height of 50 feet.
      (2)   Accessory structures shall be governed by §§
152.230 through
152.241 of this chapter.
      (3)   Off-street parking space, structures of any type, buildings or
other features may not cover more than 65% of a lot. The minimum pervious
surface area of a lot is 35%.
(Ord. 324, passed 12-4-2012)
HD, HISTORIC DOWNTOWN OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 152.720 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the HD, Historic Downtown Overlay District is to further the
city's vision of its downtown area by establishing standards that will provide
physical design details and standards necessary to facilitate development in
the downtown that reflects the historic commercial character of the core and
the traditional residential character of the adjoining neighborhoods.
(Prior Code, § 11-76-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.721 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The downtown design standards shall be applied as an overlay zoning
district to a subdistrict of the downtown plan study area. Existing
nonconforming uses and structures within the Design Overlay District may be
maintained and continued in the state which exists at the time this subchapter
is adopted. Conversion of the structures to a conforming business-related use
shall require downtown design standards review, as provided for in division
(B). A project which complies with an objective will likely be viewed more
favorably than one which does not. However, adherence to the overall character
is the bottom line. Projects which achieve the character goals may be able to
overcome modifications to individual objective statements. Any project subject
to these standards will be required to conform to the standards only to the
extent that the project involves design features addressed by the standards.
Depending on the scope of the project, the following review processes may
apply.
   (A)   Administrative review. Projects that require administrative review
only include those which involve minor exterior alterations to existing
buildings, but which do not require separate zoning permits. Maintenance of
existing buildings requiring a building permit and replacement of materials
consistent with the downtown design standards will require only administrative
review.
   (B)   Planning Commission and City Council review. Projects of greater
scope, or those which already require more extensive city zoning review, will
need to be reviewed by the Planning Commission and then approved by the City
Council. These projects include:
      (1)   Those buildings that are completely new;
      (2)   Those which alter the building design or materials more than 50% of
any single exterior building wall or roof surface;
      (3)   Those which require variances, subdivision approval, conditional
use permits or other zoning or permit amendment;
      (4)   Those which alter the height of an existing building by more than
two feet;
      (5)   Those which alter the lot coverage of an existing building by more
than 10%; and
      (6)   Those accessory buildings within areas subject to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-76-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.722 CONSISTENCY WITH OTHER PLANS AND CODES.
   In some cases, the guidelines and regulations in these downtown design
standards may differ from other plans, codes and ordinances of the city. In
these cases, the following procedure is to be followed when confronting a
conflict in regulation.
   (A)   The City Comprehensive Plan is the underlying basis for land use
regulation in the city. All of the regulations and requirements of the
standards should be interpreted in the context established by the Comprehensive
Plan.
   (B)   The base zoning district defines the allowable land uses on any
parcel. The regulations found in the city's zoning chapter, as well as any
other ordinances, still apply.
   (C)   The downtown design standards comprise a specific implementation tool
of the Comprehensive Plan. Where the standards differ from other city
ordinances, it is the city's intent that the standards will control. Due to the
greater detail, the requirements and recommendations of the downtown design
standards are defined as being "more restrictive" for purposes of applying
multiple regulations.
   (D)   The downtown design standards shall not supersede any building, fire
or disability code that has been adopted to protect the public health, safety
or welfare.
(Prior Code, § 11-76-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.723 PERMITTED USES.
   All permitted, permitted accessory or conditional uses contained in all
zoning districts identified in §§
152.460 through
152.467,
152.480 through
152.487,
152.500 through
152.507,
152.520 through
152.527,
152.540 through
152.549,
152.560 through
152.570,
152.585 through
152.590,
152.605 through
152.612,
152.625 through
152.632,
152.645 through
152.653,
152.665 through
152.672 and
152.685 through
152.692 of this chapter shall be directed as permitted uses within the HD
District.
(Prior Code, § 11-76-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.724 LAND USE ELEMENTS.
   Uses permitted within the Design Overlay District shall be in accordance
with the applicable underlying zoning district as indicated on the official
zoning map of the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-76-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.725 ARCHITECTURAL ELEMENTS.
   (A)   General design principles. General design principles are as follows.
      (1)   Historic structures should be preserved and maintained whenever
possible as important contributors to the city's character.
      (2)   All new development shall be designed to value, respect and
preserve identified natural features and resources.
      (3)   Buildings should be designed to relate well to the existing
environment, both natural and human-made, and consider context in massing,
materials, style and color; design of the landscape and hardscape should be
coordinated and harmonious with the building design and materials.
      (4)   All new development should be sensitive to existing residences in
the design and location of new uses and buildings with respect to shading,
views, light or noise pollution; where necessary appropriate screening or
buffering shall be provided.
   (B)   Unifying design concept. All new buildings in the Design Overlay
District shall be of the Italianate or Queen Anne (commercial) architectural
style, as defined in §
152.021.
      (1)   Except where the Italianate or Queen Anne (commercial)
architectural character otherwise directs, new buildings, remodelings and
additions shall relate to the character of the original building on the site or
to traditional buildings around them, when these are present. This can be
achieved by maintaining similar setbacks, modest building scale and height,
cornice lines, horizontal lines of windows and openings, architectural styles
and details, building materials and colors.
      (2)   Building additions shall reflect the design of the existing
building where the existing building is in compliance with the downtown design
standards.
   (C)   Building placement. Zero lot line setbacks shall be allowed when
determined to be consistent with architectural context of the area.
   (D)   Composition and detailing.
      (1)   No building design shall be approved which includes less than 40%,
and no more than 75%, window and door area at the base of the facade for
buildings. The minimum/maximum window and door area shall apply to all facades
directly adjacent to a public street.
      (2)   All buildings shall have an identifiable ground level base element.
      (3)   Corners, cornices, windows and doorways shall include additional
architectural detailing beyond the basic building wall materials or pattern of
traditional style buildings.
   (E)   Building height. Building heights shall be in accordance with the
requirements of the underlying zoning district.
   (F)   Street front entry/doorway.
      (1)   No entry shall project into the public right-of-way. Double door
entryways shall be no more than seven feet in width.
      (2)   Canopies, awnings and other similar architectural features shall
project no more than three feet into public right-of-way. No building shall use
permanent, retractable or roll-down security doors or bars which are visible to
the public from the street or sidewalk.
      (3)   Except where specifically allowed by the city, canopies shall be
constructed of cloth, glass or metal materials. Canopy design shall include
appropriate detailing reflecting the architectural style of the building.
Backlit awnings which are transparent shall not be permitted. A minimum of
seven feet of vertical clear space shall be maintained between the lowest point
of the canopy and/or its structural elements and the ground elevation.
   (G)   Street front windows.
      (1)   Single window panes shall not exceed four feet in width. No more
than 50% of upper building levels shall be comprised of glass.
      (2)   Window sill height on the base level shall be no less than 12
inches nor more than 32 inches above interior finished floor elevation.
      (3)   Where window projections are used, no projection may extend to
within ten feet of the curb line of the street, nor more than two feet from the
front line of the building.
      (4)   Window bay widths shall range from a minimum of 12 feet to a
maximum of 20 feet.
   (H)   Bay width. Upper floors shall be designed to clearly reflect the
division of bays at the base level.
   (I)   Roofs.
      (1)   Roof top elements shall be constructed of brick or other material
to be approved by the city which is complementary to the building materials
which comprise the bulk of the building.
      (2)   Architectural elements such as cornices, decorative chimneys and
strong corner elements shall be used to enhance the roof line of traditional
style buildings.
      (3)   Mansard roofs or mansard-style canopies shall not be permitted.
Flat, gabled, shed, hip, pitched, round or arched roof designs, depending on
the neighborhood context, shall be required for new construction or qualifying
redevelopment projects. Definitions of roof styles are found in §
152.021.
      (4)   Roof or wall mounted mechanical equipment shall not be visible from
adjacent public areas. Equipment shall be placed in a location on the roof
which eliminates visibility or parapets shall be constructed which fully screen
the equipment. The parapets shall be coordinated with building architecture and
materials and may not consist of fencing or fencing materials.
      (5)   Gutters or other stormwater controls shall be constructed of
weather-durable materials. Plastic shall not be considered an acceptable
material.
   (J)   Building materials.
      (1)   Brick and glass shall be the dominant exterior building materials
used for facades adjacent to a public street. Brick shall be maintained in its
natural color and shall not be painted.
      (2)   Upon approval of the city, materials other than brick, including
manufactured stone, may be utilized as the primary material upon a
demonstration that the architectural appearance will complement the building
materials of surrounding structures in the neighborhood. A specific
architectural style or historic development, as determined by the city, would
constitute one possible basis for the demonstration.
      (3)   Concrete masonry units (CMUs) shall be allowed only on a case-by-
case basis where appropriate to the design, architecture and neighborhood
context of a building.
      (4)   Complementary building materials may be used as detail, including
metal, stucco, exterior insulation and finish system (EFIS), stone and/or
precast architectural concrete, but shall not exceed 30% of the total area of
facades adjacent to public rights-of-way. When glass is the predominant
building material, brick shall be the dominant complementary material.
   (K)   Rear facade entry/doorways. Building design and site layout shall
emphasize attractive and safe rear building entryways from parking areas or
trails. Character and design of the rear facade shall be consistent with the
front and sides of the building.
   (L)   Franchise design. Franchise design shall be allowed only to the extent
that the materials, colors and scale are designed to meet these standards and
the project is integrated into the architectural context created by surrounding
buildings.
(Prior Code, § 11-76-6) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.726 STREETSCAPE/SITE PLANNING ELEMENTS.
   (A)   Parking.
      (1)   All off-street parking areas shall be screened in accordance with
the applicable provisions of the city zoning regulations.
      (2)   Where a parking lot is located along a street, it shall be well
landscaped and screened with a combination of fencing or wall plantings along
the street edge.
      (3)   Parking areas of more than 30 spaces shall include planting islands
equivalent to 15% of the total area. No parking area planting island shall have
any dimension (length or width) of less than ten feet.
      (4)   Existing parking areas not in conformance with this regulation
shall be brought into compliance with the screening requirements in conjunction
with any permit or other activity which is subject to these standards.
   (B)   Access and communication. All projects shall be required to
demonstrate convenient connections to the adjoining pedestrian and bicycle
circulation system, whether private or public. Commercial developments shall
incorporate bicycle parking spaces, whenever appropriate, in a convenient,
visible and preferably sheltered location.
   (C)   Walkway and driving surface construction.
      (1)   Downtown district sidewalks shall be not less than ten feet in
width and be "zoned" to provide for landscaping and street trees, street and
sidewalk lighting, areas for seating, a pedestrian walking path and an area
designated for other street furniture and commercial opportunities, including
newspaper boxes and trash receptacles. Where narrower sidewalks exist, zone
closest to shops may be eliminated.
      (2)   No private or public furniture or other obstructions shall restrict
the width of public sidewalks to less than a five-foot wide walkway.
      (3)   Asphalt shall not be permitted as a material for paving of private
sidewalks or other pedestrian ways. Brick, textured and colored concrete and
natural stone shall be permitted. Other materials may be permitted by the city.
      (4)   Pedestrian ways other than sidewalks adjacent to public streets
shall be developed to a minimum walking zone width of five feet.
      (5)   Sidewalks adjacent to public streets shall encompass the full width
of the area between the curb and the front property line, with the exception of
public planting and street furniture areas which meet the setback distances
described above.
   (D)   Lighting. A lighting plan which reflects the pedestrian scale of the
city and provides full lighting of private property shall be prepared as a part
of any development or redevelopment plan subject to these standards. All
lighting shall conform to the provisions of the zoning regulations and include
full cut-off fixtures to reduce unnecessary glare. Street lights on the public
right-of-way and site lighting shall be replaced at the time of redevelopment
so as to match or complement fixtures in conformances with city standards.
   (E)   Site plantings. All trees that are removed in the public right-of-way
as a result of development or redevelopment shall be replaced according to city
standards with appropriate use of tree guards and grates. All tree and plant
species shall be indigenous to the appropriate hardiness zone and physical
characteristics of the site. Suitable tree and plant species shall be
consistent with those identified as acceptable within the zoning chapter.
   (F)   Other site improvements.
      (1)   All exterior trash storage areas shall be fully screened with
materials compatible to those used in the principal building(s), in accordance
with zoning chapter and as approved by the city.
      (2)   Where a site includes mechanical equipment on the ground, the
equipment should be screened from view with materials compatible to those used
in the principal building(s), in accordance with the zoning chapter as approved
by the city.
      (3)   Utility lines shall be placed underground by the developer wherever
feasible with any new development or redevelopment.
      (4)   Exterior stairways, porches, decks and railings shall be designed
and constructed of materials appropriate to the architecture of the building.
(Prior Code, § 11-76-7) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.727 SIGN ELEMENTS.
   (A)   Character. All signage shall be compliant with the requirements of the
city zoning chapter.
   (B)   Height. Signs shall not extend above the lowest point of the roof or
parapet of the building on which the sign is located unless allowed through a
conditional use permit, as specified in the zoning chapter. Pylon signage shall
not be allowed. Monument signs shall be allowed as specified in the zoning
chapter.
   (C)   Placement/location. Notwithstanding other sign regulations, projecting
signs shall be allowed subject to the regulations and policies in this chapter.
Projecting signs shall not exceed eight square feet of sign space (except per
conditional use permit), extend more than five feet into the public right-of-
way, nor be lower than seven feet above the public sidewalk.
   (D)   Size and number.
      (1)   Businesses shall not display more than three permanent signs,
whether the signs be projecting, wall, monument, window or located at the rear
entrances of commercial businesses that abut public parking or trails.
      (2)   Building bays shall not display more than three sign panels,
whether the signs are wall signs or projecting signs. Window lettering signs of
less than six square feet shall be excluded from this regulation. In any one
building bay, no more than one sign of any type (wall, projecting or window)
shall be displayed. For multi-tenant buildings, more than three signs may be
allowed, provided that the aggregate square footage of sign space is complied
with and an administrative permit is approved by the city.
      (3)   Total sign area shall be limited to the allowances as specified for
in the underlying zoning districts within the zoning chapter.
   (E)   Materials and illumination. Signs shall not be internally illuminated,
nor utilize backlit plastic panels.
   (F)   Sign type.
      (1)   Temporary signs. Display of temporary sign messages shall not
exceed 15% of any individual window pane.
      (2)   Portable signs.
         (a)   Portable signs are permitted to occupy the public or private
sidewalk area within five feet of the entryway to the subject business,
provided that the signs display messages to pedestrians, no electrical
connections are utilized and display of the signs is permitted only during the
business hours of the subject business.
         (b)   Portable signs may only be constructed of wood or other
materials which are subject to the approval of the city. Portable signs shall
be consistent with the area and height requirements of the city sign
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-76-8) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.728 FILING AND REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   Procedure.
      (1)   Applicants requesting downtown design standards review are required
to contact the Zoning Administrator in order to set up a pre-application
meeting to discuss the project in question. A meeting with city staff is
required to discuss the application process, examine the downtown design
standards policies and regulations, review conceptual plans, provide advice for
the purpose of avoiding any unnecessary plan modifications or design related
conflicts.
      (2)   Requests for downtown design standards review by the Planning
Commission and City Council shall be filed with the city on an official
application form at least 30 days in advance of the meeting at which it will
first be considered. The application shall be accompanied by a fee as provided
for by the official city fee schedule. The application shall be accompanied by
plan copies as specified in the city's development application. The city may
waive or alter any of the submittal requirements specified herein if not
applicable to a project. The request shall be considered officially submitted
and the application approval timeline commences only when all the information
requirements of this section are complied with and the required fees are paid.
      (3)   Pursuant to M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from time to time,
an application for a project shall be approved or denied by the City Council
within 60 days from the date of its official and complete submission, unless
notice of extension is provided by the city or a time waiver is granted by the
applicant. The city may extend the review and decision-making period an
additional 60 days to the extent allowed by state law.
      (4)   Upon receipt of the completed application, the city shall schedule
review of the request at the next regularly scheduled Planning Commission
meeting.
      (5)   The Downtown Design Committee shall review the proposed project and
make comment and recommendation as to its consistency with the downtown plan
and downtown design standards.
      (6)   The city may request additional information from the applicant to
clarify the application and intent of the project.
      (7)   The Planning Commission shall make its report to the City Council
after conducting the initial review.
      (8)   Upon receipt of the reports and recommendation of the Planning
Commission, the City Council shall have the option to set and hold a public
hearing on the request. The City Council may also refer the matter back to the
Planning Commission for further consideration.
      (9)   Approval of the application by the City Council shall require
passage by a majority vote of the entire City Council. The City Council may
impose conditions and restrictions as it deems appropriate or require revisions
or modifications it deems necessary to protect and enhance the general
architectural and site character of the city's commercial areas consistent with
the policies and regulations of the downtown design standards.
      (10)   The City Council reserves the right to decline approval of a
request if due regard is not shown for the policies and regulations of the
downtown design standards provided herein.
   (B)   Submission and presentation requirements. In addition to any submittal
requirements required by the city, applicants shall submit the following
documents to portray their design proposals for either administrative or
Planning Commission/City Council review. The city may waive any of the
requirements specified below if not applicable to a project:
      (1)   Colored illustration of site plan;
      (2)   Colored perspective sketch representing realistic proportions of
the building and its immediate surroundings;
      (3)   Colored building elevations (front, rear and sides at one-quarter
inch scale minimum);
      (4)   Partial or enlarged building elevation (one-half inch scale
minimum);
      (5)   Enlarged sketch of site amenities;
      (6)   Materials board with actual examples of all building materials; and
      (7)   Colored computer graphic simulation and/or an architectural model.
(Prior Code, § 11-76-9) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.729 VARIANCES.
   The City Council may approve a variance from these standards when, in its
opinion, exceptional and undue hardship may result from strict compliance. In
approving any variance, the City Council shall prescribe any conditions that it
deems necessary to or desirable to the public interest.
   (A)   Approval. A variance shall only be approved when the City Council
finds that each and every one of the following apply, unless one or more of the
criteria are not applicable to the particular situation.
      (1)   Because of the physical surroundings, shape or topographical
conditions of the specific parcel of land involved, a particular hardship to
the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the
strict letter of the regulations were to be carried out.
      (2)   The conditions upon which an application for a variance is based
are unique to the parcel of land for which the variance is sought and are not
applicable, generally, to other property within the same zoning classification.
      (3)   The purpose of the variance is not based exclusively upon a
financial hardship or a desire to increase the value or income potential of the
parcel of land.
      (4)   The alleged difficulty has not been created by any persons having
an interest in the parcel of land and is not a self-created hardship.
      (5)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other land or improvements in the neighborhood in which
the parcel of land is located.
      (6)   The variance will not impair an adequate supply of light and air to
adjacent property, or substantially increase the congestion of the public
streets or increase the danger of fire or endanger the public safety.
      (7)   The requested variance is the minimum action required to eliminate
the hardship.
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   Requests for variances shall be filed with the city on an official
application form at least 30 days in advance of the meeting at which it will be
considered. The application shall be accompanied by a fee as provided for by
City Council resolution. The request shall be considered officially submitted
and the application approval timelines commence only when all the information
requirements of this section are complied with and the required fees are paid.
      (2)   Pursuant to M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from time to time,
an application for a variance shall be approved or denied by the City Council
within 60 days from the date of its official and complete submission unless
notice of extension is provided by the city or a time waiver is granted by the
applicant. The city may extend the review and decisionmaking period an
additional 60 days to the extent allowed by state law.
      (3)   The procedures for Planning Commission review and City Council
consideration, as found in the process for filing and review section of the
standards, shall be used for processing variances.
      (4)   Approval of a variance request by the City Council shall be by
three-fifths vote of the full City Council.
      (5)   Whenever a variance has been considered and denied by the City
Council, a similar application and proposal for the variance affecting the same
property shall not be considered again by the Planning Commission or City
Council for at least six months from the date of its denial, except as follows:
         (a)   If the applicant or property owner can clearly demonstrate that
the circumstances surrounding the previous variance application have changed
significantly; and
         (b)   The City Council may reconsider the matter by a majority vote of
the entire City Council.
   (C)   Appeals.
      (1)   Board designation. The City Council shall serve as the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals.
      (2)   Applicability. An appeal shall only be applicable to an
administrative order, requirement or interpretation of intent of provisions of
these standards. Opinions and evaluations as they pertain to the impact or
result of a request are not subject to the appeal procedure.
      (3)   Filing. An appeal from the action of an administrative officer of
the city shall be filed by an officer, department, board or commission of the
city or by a property owner or his, her or their agent with the city within ten
business days after the making of the order, requirement or interpretation
being appealed.
      (4)   Stay of proceedings. An appeal stays all proceedings and the
furtherance of the action being appealed unless it is certified to the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals, after the notice of appeal is filed, that by reason of
facts stated in the certificate a stay would cause imminent peril to life and
property.
      (5)   Procedure. The procedure for making an appeal shall be as follows.
         (a)   An appeal shall be filed by an officer, department, board or
commission of the city or a property owner or his, her or their agent with the
city stating the specific grounds upon which the appeal is made. The
application shall be accompanied by a fee as established by City Council
resolution. In cases where the application is judged to be incomplete, the city
shall notify the applicant, in writing, within ten business days of the date of
submission.
         (b)   The city shall instruct the appropriate staff persons to prepare
technical reports when appropriate and shall provide general assistance in
preparing a recommendation on the action to the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals.
         (c)   Pursuant to M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from time to
time, the Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall make its decision by resolution
within 60 days from the date on which a completed application is filed.
         (d)   The city shall serve a copy of the final order of the Board upon
the applicant by mail.
(Prior Code, § 11-76-10) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.730 EXISTING BUILDING TREATMENT.
   Choosing the most appropriate treatment for an existing building within the
Design Overlay District requires careful consideration of a number of factors
including the relative importance of the structure in history, the physical
condition of the structure and the proposed use for the structure. In this
regard, the following options must be considered.
   (A)   Preservation. Preservation is appropriate when the building is
generally intact and does not require extensive repair or replacement. The goal
of preservation is to preserve and retain the existing form, features and
detailing of the building through protection, maintenance and repair while
minimizing replacement. Buildings listed on the National Historic Register
frequently warrant preservation.
   (B)   Rehabilitation. Rehabilitation is most appropriate for buildings that
require more extensive repairs and replacement or alterations or additions for
a new use. Rehabilitation includes protecting and maintaining important
historic features that have become damaged or deteriorated over time as well as
repairing historic materials (masonry, wood, historic metal) and replacing
important features with like materials. Rehabilitation provides the opportunity
to facilitate contemporary use of historic structures through alterations and
additions. Buildings not listed on the National Historic Register that
contribute to the significance of an historic district are frequently prospects
for rehabilitation.
   (C)   Restoration. Restoration is appropriate to make an historic building
appear as it did at a particular and significant time in its history.
Restoration includes protecting and maintaining important historic features as
well as the removal of features that have been added to the building over time
or the replacement of features that have been removed over time. Buildings
listed on the National Historic Register are frequently prospects for
restoration.
   (D)   Reconstruction. Reconstruction is appropriate when portions of an
historic building or block have been removed from the landscape. Reconstruction
provides the opportunity to re-create the landscape using contemporary
materials. Documentary and physical evidence must be available to implement
accurate reconstruction.
(Prior Code, § 11-76-11) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
§ 152.745 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION; FINDINGS OF FACT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the state has in M.S.
Chapter 103F and Chapter 462, as they may be amended from time to time,
delegated the responsibility to local government units to adopt regulations
designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the City Council does ordain as
follows.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   Generally. The flood hazard areas of city are subject to periodic
inundation which results in potential loss of life, loss of property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures or flood protection and relief and impairment
of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and
general welfare.
      (2)   Methods used to analyze flood hazards. This subchapter is based
upon a reasonable method of analyzing flood hazards which is consistent with
the standards established by the State Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   National Flood Insurance Program compliance. This subchapter is
adopted to comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program codified as 44 C.F.R. Parts 59 through 78, as amended, so as
to maintain the community's eligibility in the National Flood Insurance
Program.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this subchapter to promote
the public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize those losses
described in division (B)(1) above by provisions contained herein.
(Ord. 296, passed 9-17-2009)
§ 152.746 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which subchapter applies. This subchapter shall apply to all
lands within the jurisdiction of city shown on the official zoning map and/or
the attachments thereto as being located within the boundaries of the floodway,
flood fringe or general floodplain districts.
   (B)   Establishment of official zoning map. The official zoning map together
with all materials attached thereto is hereby adopted by reference and declared
to be a part of this subchapter. The attached material shall include the flood
insurance study for the county and incorporated areas and flood insurance rate
map panels therein numbered: 27049C0118E, 27049C0119E, 27049C0120E and
27049C0285E, all dated September 25, 2009, and prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The official zoning map shall be on file in the
office of the City Administrator and the Building Official.
   (C)   Regulatory flood protection elevation. The regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be an elevation no lower than one foot above the elevation of
the regional flood plus any increases in flood elevation caused by
encroachments on the floodplain that result from designation of a floodway.
   (D)   Interpretation.
      (1)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
subchapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by state statutes.
      (2)   The boundaries of the zoning districts shall be determined by
scaling distances on the official zoning map. Where interpretation is needed as
to the exact location of the boundaries of the district as shown on the
official zoning map, as for example where there appears to be a conflict
between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions and there is a formal
appeal of the decision of the Zoning Administrator, the Board of Adjustment
shall make the necessary interpretation. All decisions will be based on
elevations on the regional (100-year) flood profile, the ground elevations that
existed on the site at the time the community adopted its initial floodplain
ordinance or on the date of the first National Flood Insurance Program map
showing the area within the 100-year floodplain if earlier, and other available
technical data. Persons contesting the location of the district boundaries
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the Board of
Adjustment and to submit technical evidence.
   (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended by this
chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this subchapter shall prevail.
   (F)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. This subchapter does not imply
that areas outside the floodplain districts or land uses permitted within these
districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. This subchapter shall
not create liability on the part of city or any officer or employee thereof for
any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
   (G)   Severability. If any section, clause, provision or portion of this
subchapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this subchapter shall not be affected thereby.
   (H)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with, and
of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
      BASEMENT. Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its
floor or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless of
the depth of excavation below ground level.
      CONDITIONAL USE. A specific type of structure or land use listed in the
official control that may be allowed but only after an in-depth review
procedure and with appropriate conditions or restrictions as provided in the
official zoning controls or building codes and upon a finding that:
         (a)   Certain conditions as detailed in the zoning regulations exist;
and
         (b)   The structure and/or land use conform to the comprehensive land
use plan if one exists and are compatible with the existing neighborhood.
      EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location of
floodway boundaries so that floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
      FLOOD. A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream or in the
stage of a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry
areas.
      FLOOD FREQUENCY. The frequency for which it is expected that a specific
flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
      FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway.
FLOOD FRINGE is synonymous with the term FLOODWAY FRINGE used in the Flood
Insurance Study for Goodhue County, Minnesota and Incorporated Areas.
      FLOODPLAIN. The beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional flood.
      FLOODPROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding, primarily for the
reduction or elimination of flood damages.
      FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse
and those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
      LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building's LOWEST FLOOR.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include the term "recreational vehicle."
      OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile,
abutment, projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building,
wire, fence, stockpile, refuse, fill, structure or matter in, along, across or
projecting into any channel, watercourse or regulatory floodplain which may
impede, retard or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself
or by catching or collecting debris carried by the water.
      PRINCIPAL USE OR STRUCTURE. All uses or structures that are not accessory
uses or structures.
      REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of
a stream or river influenced by a natural or human-made obstruction. In an
urban area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive bridge
crossings would most typically constitute a REACH.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is built on a single chassis, is 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection, is
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck, and
is designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use. For the
purposes of this subchapter, the term RECREATIONAL VEHICLE shall be synonymous
with the term TRAVEL TRAILER/TRAVEL VEHICLE.
      REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in the state and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 100-year
recurrence interval. REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the term BASE FLOOD used
in a flood insurance study.
      REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. An elevation no lower than one
foot above the elevation of the regional flood plus any increases in flood
elevation caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from
designation of a floodway.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to
the ground or on-site utilities, including, but not limited to, buildings,
factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins, manufactured homes, recreational
vehicles not meeting the exemption criteria specified in §
152.754(C)(1) of this subchapter and other similar items.
      SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure where
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Within any consecutive 365-day period, any
reconstruction, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance and repair),
repair after damage, addition or other improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the
"start of construction" of the improvement. This term includes structures that
have incurred "substantial damage," regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of an "historic structure," provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an
"historic structure." For the purpose of this subchapter, HISTORIC STRUCTURE
shall be as defined in 44 C.F.R. Part 59.1.
      VARIANCE. A modification of a specific permitted development standard
required in an official control including this chapter to allow an alternative
development standard not stated as acceptable in the official control, but only
as applied to a particular property for the purpose of alleviating a hardship,
practical difficulty or unique circumstance as defined and elaborated upon in a
community's respective planning and zoning enabling legislation.
   (I)   Annexations. The flood insurance rate map panels adopted by reference
in division (B) above may include floodplain areas that lie outside of the
corporate boundaries of the city at the time of adoption of this subchapter. If
any of these floodplain land areas are annexed into the city after the date of
adoption of this subchapter, the newly annexed floodplain lands shall be
subject to the provisions of this subchapter immediately upon the date of
annexation into the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-80-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 296, passed 9-17-2009)
§ 152.747 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Floodway District. The Floodway District shall include those areas
designated as floodway on the flood insurance rate map adopted in §
152.746.
   (B)   Flood Fringe District. The Flood Fringe District shall include those
areas designated as floodway fringe. The Flood Fringe District shall include
those areas shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map as adopted in §
152.746 as being within Zone AE but being located outside of the floodway.
   (C)   General Floodplain District. The General Floodplain District shall
include those areas designated as Zone A or Zone AE without a floodway on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map adopted in §
152.746.
(Prior Code, § 11-80-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 296, passed 9-17-2009)
§ 152.748 COMPLIANCE.
   No new structure or land shall hereafter be used and no structure shall be
constructed, located, extended, converted or structurally altered without full
compliance with the terms of this subchapter and other applicable regulations
which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this subchapter. Within the
Floodway, Flood Fringe and General Floodplain Districts, all uses not listed as
permitted uses or conditional uses in §§
152.749,
152.750 and
152.751 that follow, respectively, shall be prohibited. In addition, a caution
is provided here that:
   (A)   New manufactured homes, replacement manufactured homes and certain
travel trailers and travel vehicles are subject to the general provisions of
this subchapter and specifically §
152.754;
   (B)   Modifications, additions, structural alterations, normal maintenance
and repair or repair after damage to existing nonconforming structures and
nonconforming uses of structures or land are regulated by the general
provisions of this subchapter and specifically §
152.756; and
   (C)   As-built elevations for elevated or floodproofed structures must be
certified by ground surveys and floodproofing techniques must be designed and
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect as specified in
the general provisions of this subchapter and specifically as stated in §
152.755 of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-80-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 296, passed 9-17-2009)
§ 152.749 FLOODWAY DISTRICT (FW).
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   General farming, pasture, grazing, outdoor plant nurseries,
horticulture, truck farming, forestry, sod farming and wild crop harvesting;
      (2)   Industrial-commercial loading areas, parking areas and airport
landing strips;
      (3)   Private and public golf courses, tennis courts, driving ranges,
archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching ramps, swimming areas, parks,
wildlife and nature preserves, game farms, fish hatcheries, shooting preserves,
target ranges, trap and skeet ranges, hunting and fishing areas and single or
multiple purpose recreational trails; and
      (4)   Residential lawns, gardens, parking areas and play areas.
   (B)   Standards for floodway permitted uses.
      (1)   The use shall have a low flood damage potential.
      (2)   The use shall be permissible in the underlying zoning district if
one exists.
      (3)   The use shall not obstruct flood flows or increase flood elevations
and shall not involve structures, fill, obstructions, excavations or storage of
materials or equipment.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Structures accessory to the uses listed in division (A) above and
the uses listed below in this division;
      (2)   Extraction and storage of sand, gravel and other materials;
      (3)   Marinas, boat rentals, docks, piers, wharves and water control
structures;
      (4)   Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines and
pipelines;
      (5)   Storage yards for equipment, machinery or materials;
      (6)   Placement of fill or construction of fences;
      (7)   Recreational vehicles either on individual lots of record or in
existing or new subdivisions or commercial or condominium type campgrounds,
subject to the exemptions and provisions of §
152.754(C) of this subchapter; and
      (8)   Structural works for flood control such as levees, dikes and
floodwalls constructed to any height where the intent is to protect individual
structures and levees or dikes where the intent is to protect agricultural
crops for a frequency flood event equal to or less than the ten-year frequency
flood event.
   (D)   Standards for floodway conditional uses.
      (1)   All uses. No structure (temporary or permanent), fill (including
fill for roads and levees), deposit, obstruction, storage of materials or
equipment or other uses may be allowed as a conditional use that will cause any
increase in the stage of the 100-year or regional flood or cause an increase in
flood damages in the reach or reaches affected.
      (2)   Subject to procedures and standards. All floodway conditional uses
shall be subject to the procedures and standards contained in §
152.755(D) of this subchapter.
      (3)   Conditional uses. The conditional use shall be permissible in the
underlying zoning district if one exists.
      (4)   Fill.
         (a)   Fill, dredge spoil and all other similar materials deposited or
stored in the floodplain shall be protected from erosion by vegetative cover,
mulching, rip rap or other acceptable method.
         (b)   Dredge spoil sites and sand and gravel operations shall not be
allowed in the floodway unless a long-term site development plan is submitted
which includes an erosion/sedimentation prevention element to the plan.
         (c)   As an alternative, and consistent with division (D)(4)(b)
immediately above, dredge spoil disposal and sand and gravel operations may
allow temporary, on-site storage of fill or other materials which would have
caused an increase to the stage of the 100-year or regional flood but only
after the governing body has received an appropriate plan which assures the
removal of the materials from the floodway based upon the flood warning time
available. The conditional use permit must be title registered with the
property in the office of the County Recorder.
      (5)   Accessory structures.
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be designed for human habitation.
         (b)   Accessory structures, if permitted, shall be constructed and
placed on the building site so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the flow
of flood waters.
            1.   Whenever possible, structures shall be constructed with the
longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood flow.
            2.   So far as practicable, structures shall be placed
approximately on the same flood flow lines as those of adjoining structures.
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be elevated on fill or structurally
dry floodproofed in accordance with the FP-1 or FP-2 floodproofing
classifications in the State Building Code. As an alternative, an accessory
structure may be floodproofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 floodproofing classification
in the State Building Code provided the accessory structure constitutes a
minimal investment, does not exceed 500 square feet in size at its largest
projection, and for a detached garage, the detached garage must be used solely
for parking of vehicles and limited storage. All floodproofed accessory
structures must meet the following additional standards.
            1.   The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure and shall be designed
to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
            2.   Any mechanical and utility equipment in a structure must be
elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or properly
floodproofed.
            3.   To allow for the equalization of hydrostatic pressure, there
must be a minimum of two "automatic" openings in the outside walls of the
structure having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding. There must be openings on at
least two sides of the structure and the bottom of all openings must be no
higher than one foot above the lowest adjacent grade to the structure. Using
human intervention to open a garage door prior to flooding will not satisfy
this requirement for automatic openings.
      (6)   Storage of materials and equipment.
         (a)   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive or potentially injurious to human, animal or
plant life is prohibited.
         (b)   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if
readily removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning
and in accordance with a plan approved by the governing body.
      (7)   Structural works. Structural works for flood control that will
change the course, current or cross section of protected wetlands or public
waters shall be subject to the provisions of M.S. Chapter 103G, as it may be
amended from time to time. Community-wide structural works for flood control
intended to remove areas from the regulatory floodplain shall not be allowed in
the floodway.
      (8)   Levees, dikes or floodwalls. A levee, dike or floodwall constructed
in the floodway shall not cause an increase to the 100-year or regional flood
and the technical analysis must assume equal conveyance or storage loss on both
sides of a stream.
(Prior Code, § 11-80-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 296, passed 9-17-2009)
§ 152.750 FLOOD FRINGE DISTRICT (FF).
   (A)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses shall be those uses of land or
structures listed as permitted uses in the underlying zoning use district(s).
If no pre-existing, underlying zoning use districts exist, then any residential
or nonresidential structure or use of a structure or land shall be a permitted
use in the Flood Fringe District provided the use does not constitute a public
nuisance. All permitted uses shall comply with the standards for Flood Fringe
District permitted uses listed in division (B) below and the standards for all
flood fringe uses listed in division (E) below.
   (B)   Standards for flood fringe permitted uses.
      (1)   All structures, including accessory structures, must be elevated on
fill so that the lowest floor including basement floor is at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation. The finished fill elevation for
structures shall be no lower than one foot below the regulatory flood
protection elevation and the fill shall extend at the elevation at least 15
feet beyond the outside limits of the structure erected thereon.
      (2)   As an alternative to elevation on fill, accessory structures that
constitute a minimal investment and that do not exceed 500 square feet at its
largest projection may be internally floodproofed in accordance with §
152.749(D)(5)(c).
      (3)   The cumulative placement of fill where at any one time in excess of
1,000 cubic yards of fill is located on the parcel shall be allowable only as a
conditional use, unless the fill is specifically intended to elevate a
structure in accordance with division (B)(1) above of this section.
      (4)   The storage of any materials or equipment shall be elevated on fill
to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (5)   The provisions of division (E) below of this section shall apply.
   (C)   Conditional uses. Any structure that is not elevated on fill or
floodproofed in accordance with division (B)(1) and (B)(2) above and or any use
of land that does not comply with the standards in division (B)(3) and (B)(4)
above shall only be allowable as a conditional use. An application for a
conditional use shall be subject to the standards and criteria and evaluation
procedures specified in divisions (D) and (E) below and §
152.755(D) of this subchapter.
   (D)   Standards for flood fringe conditional uses.
      (1)   Alternative elevation methods other than the use of fill may be
utilized to elevate a structure's lowest floor above the regulatory flood
protection elevation. These alternative methods may include the use of stilts,
pilings, parallel walls and the like, or above-grade, enclosed areas such as
crawl spaces or tuck under garages. The base or floor of an enclosed area shall
be considered above-grade and not a structure's basement or lowest floor if:
         (a)   The enclosed area is above-grade on at least one side of the
structure;
         (b)   It is designed to internally flood and is constructed with flood
resistant materials; and
         (c)   It is used solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
storage. The above-noted alternative elevation methods are subject to the
following additional standards:
            1.   Design and certification. The structure's design and as-built
condition must be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
as being in compliance with the general design standards of the State Building
Code and, specifically, that all electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and
air conditioning equipment and other service facilities must be at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation or be designed to prevent flood water
from entering or accumulating within these components during times of flooding;
and
            2.   Specific standards for above-grade, enclosed areas. Above-
grade, fully enclosed areas such as crawl spaces or tuck under garages must be
designed to internally flood and the design plans must stipulate the following:
               a.   A minimum area of openings in the walls where internal
flooding is to be used as a floodproofing technique. There shall be a minimum
of two openings on at least two sides of the structure and the bottom of all
openings shall be no higher than one-foot above grade. The automatic openings
shall have a minimum net area of not less than one square inch for every square
foot of enclosed area subject to flooding unless a registered professional
engineer or architect certifies that a smaller net area would suffice. The
automatic openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters without any form of human intervention; and
               b.   The enclosed area will be designed of flood resistant
materials in accordance with the FP-3 or FP-4 classifications in the State
Building Code and shall be used solely for building access, parking of vehicles
or storage.
      (2)   Basements, as defined by §
152.746(H) of this subchapter, shall be subject to the following:
         (a)   Residential basement construction shall not be allowed below the
regulatory flood protection elevation; and
         (b)   Nonresidential basements may be allowed below the regulatory
flood protection elevation provided the basement is structurally dry
floodproofed in accordance with division (D)(3) below of this section.
      (3)   (a)   All areas of nonresidential structures including basements to
be placed below the regulatory flood protection elevation shall be floodproofed
in accordance with the structurally dry floodproofing classifications in the
State Building Code; and
         (b)   Structurally dry floodproofing must meet the FP-1 or FP-
2 floodproofing classification in the State Building Code and this shall
require making the structure watertight with the walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effects of
buoyancy. Structures floodproofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 classification shall not
be permitted.
      (4)   When at any one time more than 1,000 cubic yards of fill or other
similar material is located on a parcel for activities such as on-site storage,
landscaping, sand and gravel operations, landfills, roads, dredge spoil
disposal or construction of flood control works, an erosion/sedimentation
control plan must be submitted unless the community is enforcing a state
approved shoreland management ordinance. In the absence of a state approved
shoreland ordinance, the plan must clearly specify methods to be used to
stabilize the fill on site for a flood event at a minimum of the 100-year or
regional flood event. The plan must be prepared and certified by a registered
professional engineer or other qualified individual acceptable to the governing
body. The plan may incorporate alternative procedures for removal of the
material from the floodplain if adequate flood warning time exists;
      (5)   Storage of materials and equipment.
         (a)   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive or potentially injurious to human, animal or
plant life is prohibited; and
         (b)   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if
readily removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning
and in accordance with a plan approved by the governing body.
      (6)   The provisions of division (E) below of this section shall also
apply.
   (E)   Standards for all flood fringe uses.
      (1)   Vehicular access. All new principal structures must have vehicular
access at or above an elevation not more than two feet below the regulatory
flood protection elevation. If a variance to this requirement is granted, the
Board of Adjustment must specify limitations on the period of use or occupancy
of the structure for times of flooding and only after determining that adequate
flood warning time and local flood emergency response procedures exist;
      (2)   Commercial uses. Accessory land uses, such as yards, railroad
tracks and parking lots may be at elevations lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation. However, a permit for those facilities to be used by the
employees or the general public shall not be granted in the absence of a flood
warning system that provides adequate time for evacuation if the area would be
inundated to a depth and velocity so that when multiplying the depth (in feet)
times velocity (in feet per second) the product number exceeds four upon
occurrence of the regional flood;
      (3)   Manufacturing and industrial uses. Measures shall be taken to
minimize interference with normal plant operations especially along streams
having protracted flood durations. Certain accessory land uses, such as yards
and parking lots, may be at lower elevations subject to requirements set out in
division (E)(2) above. In considering permit applications, due consideration
shall be given to needs of an industry whose business requires that it be
located in floodplain areas;
      (4)   Fill. Fill shall be properly compacted and the slopes shall be
properly protected by the use of rip rap, vegetative cover or other acceptable
method. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established criteria
for removing the special flood hazard area designation for certain structures
properly elevated on fill above the 100-year flood elevation. FEMA's
requirements incorporate specific fill compaction and side slope protection
standards for multi-structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should
be investigated prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of
special flood hazard area designation will be requested;
      (5)   Floodplain developments. Floodplain developments shall not
adversely affect the hydraulic capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain
of any tributary watercourse or drainage system where a floodway or other
encroachment limit has not been specified on the official zoning map;
      (6)   Recreational vehicles. Standards for recreational vehicles are
contained in §
152.754(C); and
      (7)   Manufactured homes. All manufactured homes must be securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system that resists flotation,
collapse and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to
be limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces.
(Prior Code, § 11-80-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 296, passed 9-17-2009)
§ 152.751 GENERAL FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permissible uses.
      (1)   The uses listed in §
152.749(A) of this subchapter shall be permitted uses.
      (2)   All other uses shall be subject to the floodway/flood fringe
evaluation criteria pursuant to division (B) below. Section
152.749 shall apply if the proposed use is in the Floodway District and §
152.750 shall apply if the proposed use is in the Flood Fringe District.
   (B)   Procedures for floodway and flood fringe determinations within the
General Floodplain District.
      (1)   Upon receipt of an application for a permit or other approval
within the General Floodplain District, the applicant shall be required to
furnish following information as is deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator for the determination of the regulatory flood protection
elevation and whether the proposed use is within the Floodway or Flood Fringe
District:
         (a)   A typical valley cross-section(s) showing the channel of the
stream, elevation of land areas adjoining each side of the channel, cross-
sectional areas to be occupied by the proposed development and high water
information;
         (b)   Plan (surface view) showing elevations or contours of the
ground, pertinent structure, fill or storage elevations, the size, location and
spatial arrangement of all proposed and existing structures on the site and the
location and elevations of streets;
         (c)   Photographs showing existing land uses, vegetation upstream and
downstream and soil types; and
         (d)   Profile showing the slope of the bottom of the channel or flow
line of the stream for at least 500 feet in either direction from the proposed
development.
      (2)   The applicant shall be responsible to submit one copy of the above
information to a designated engineer or other expert person or agency for
technical assistance in determining whether the proposed use is in the Floodway
or Flood Fringe District and to determine the regulatory flood protection
elevation. Procedures consistent with Minn. Regulations parts 6120.5000 through
6120.6200 and 44 C.F.R. Part 65 shall be followed in this expert evaluation.
The designated engineer or expert is strongly encouraged to discuss the
proposed technical evaluation methodology with the respective Department of
Natural Resources' area hydrologist prior to commencing the analysis. The
designated engineer or expert shall:
         (a)   Estimate the peak discharge of the regional flood;
         (b)   Calculate the water surface profile of the regional flood based
upon a hydraulic analysis of the stream channel and overbank areas; and
         (c)   Compute the floodway necessary to convey or store the regional
flood without increasing flood stages more than 0.5 foot. A lesser stage
increase than 0.5 foot shall be required if, as a result of the additional
stage increase, increased flood damages would result. An equal degree of
encroachment on both sides of the stream within the reach shall be assumed in
computing floodway boundaries.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall present the technical evaluation and
findings of the designated engineer or expert to the governing body. The
governing body must formally accept the technical evaluation and the
recommended Floodway and/or Flood Fringe District boundary or deny the permit
application. The governing body, prior to official action, may submit the
application and all supporting data and analyses to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, the Department of Natural Resources or the Planning
Commission for review and comment. Once the Floodway and Flood Fringe District
Boundaries have been determined, the governing body shall refer the matter back
to the Zoning Administrator who shall process the permit application consistent
with the applicable provisions of §§
152.749 and
152.750 of this subchapter.
(Ord. 296, passed 9-17-2009)
§ 152.752 SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Review criteria. No land shall be subdivided which is unsuitable for
the reason of flooding, inadequate drainage, water supply or sewage treatment
facilities. All lots within the floodplain districts shall be able to contain a
building site outside of the Floodway District at or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation. All subdivisions shall have water and sewage treatment
facilities that comply with the provisions of this subchapter and have road
access both to the subdivision and to the individual building sites no lower
than two feet below the regulatory flood protection elevation. For all
subdivisions in the floodplain, the Floodway and Flood Fringe District
boundaries, the regulatory flood protection elevation and the required
elevation of all access roads shall be clearly labeled on all required
subdivision drawings and platting documents.
   (B)   Floodway/flood fringe determinations in the General Floodplain
District. In the General Floodplain District, applicants shall provide the
information required in §
152.751(B) of this subchapter to determine the 100-year flood elevation, the
Floodway and Flood Fringe District boundaries and the regulatory flood
protection elevation for the subdivision site.
   (C)   Removal of special flood hazard area designation. The Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established criteria for removing the
special flood hazard area designation for certain structures properly elevated
on fill above the 100-year flood elevation. FEMA's requirements incorporate
specific fill compaction and side slope protection standards for multi-
structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should be investigated
prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of special flood hazard
area designation will be requested.
(Prior Code, § 11-80-6) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 296, passed 9-17-2009)
§ 152.753 PUBLIC UTILITIES, RAILROADS, ROADS AND BRIDGES.
   (A)   Public utilities. All public utilities and facilities such as gas,
electrical, sewer and water supply systems to be located in the floodplain
shall be floodproofed in accordance with the State Building Code or elevated to
above the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   (B)   Public transportation facilities. Railroad tracks, roads and bridges
to be located within the floodplain shall comply with §§
152.749 and
152.750 of this subchapter. Elevation to the regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be provided where failure or interruption of these
transportation facilities would result in danger to the public health or safety
or where the facilities are essential to the orderly functioning of the area.
Minor or auxiliary roads or railroads may be constructed at a lower elevation
where failure or interruption of transportation services would not endanger the
public health or safety.
   (C)   On-site sewage treatment and water supply systems. Where public
utilities are not provided:
      (1)   On-site water supply systems must be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems; and
      (2)   New or replacement on-site sewage treatment systems must be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems
and discharges from the systems into flood waters and they shall not be subject
to impairment or contamination during times of flooding. Any sewage treatment
system designed in accordance with the state's current statewide standards for
on-site sewage treatment systems shall be determined to be in compliance with
this section.
(Prior Code, § 11-80-7) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 296, passed 9-17-2009)
§ 152.754 MANUFACTURED HOMES AND MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS AND PLACEMENT OF
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   New manufactured home parks and expansions to existing manufactured
home parks shall be subject to the provisions placed on subdivisions by §
152.752 of this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   The placement of new or replacement manufactured homes in
existing manufactured home parks or on individual lots of record that are
located in floodplain districts will be treated as a new structure and may be
placed only if elevated in compliance with §
152.750 of this subchapter. If vehicular road access for pre-existing
manufactured home parks is not provided in accordance with §
152.750(E)(1), then replacement manufactured homes will not be allowed until
the property owner(s) develops a flood warning emergency plan acceptable to the
governing body.
      (2)   All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation
system that resists flotation, collapse and lateral movement. Methods of
anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to, use of over-the-top or
frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable
state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
   (C)   Recreational vehicles that do not meet the exemption criteria
specified in division (C)(1) below shall be subject to the provisions of this
subchapter and as specifically spelled out in division (C)(3) and (C)(4) below.
      (1)   Exemption. Recreational vehicles are exempt from the provisions of
this subchapter if they are placed in any of the areas listed in division (C)
(2) below and further they meet the following criteria:
         (a)   Have current licenses required for highway use;
         (b)   Are highway ready meaning on wheels or the internal jacking
system are attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
commonly used in campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks and the
recreational vehicle has no permanent structural type additions attached to it;
and
         (c)   The recreational vehicle and associated use must be permissible
in any pre-existing, underlying zoning use district.
      (2)   Areas exempted for placement of recreational vehicles.
         (a)   Individual lots or parcels of record;
         (b)   Existing commercial recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds;
and
         (c)   Existing condominium type associations.
      (3)   Loss of exemption. Recreational vehicles exempted in division (C)
(1) above lose this exemption when development occurs on the parcel exceeding
$500 for a structural addition to the recreational vehicle or exceeding $500
for an accessory structure such as a garage or storage building. The
recreational vehicle and all additions and accessory structures will then be
treated as a new structure and shall be subject to the elevation/floodproofing
requirements and the use of land restrictions specified in §§
152.749 and
152.750 of this subchapter. There shall be no development or improvement on the
parcel or attachment to the recreational vehicle that hinders the removal of
the recreational vehicle to a flood free location should flooding occur.
      (4)   New commercial recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds; new
residential type subdivisions and condominium associations; expansion. New
commercial recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds and new residential type
subdivisions and condominium associations and the expansion of any existing
similar use exceeding five units or dwelling sites shall be subject to the
following.
         (a)   Any new or replacement recreational vehicle will be allowed in
the Floodway or Flood Fringe Districts provided the recreational vehicle and
its contents are placed on fill above the regulatory flood protection elevation
and proper elevated road access to the site exists in accordance with §
152.750(E)(1) of this subchapter. No fill placed in the floodway to meet the
requirements of this section shall increase flood stages of the 100-year or
regional flood.
         (b)   All new or replacement recreational vehicles not meeting the
criteria of division (C)(4)(a) above may, as an alternative, be allowed as a
conditional use if in accordance with the following provisions and the
provisions of §
152.755(D) of this subchapter. The applicant must submit an emergency plan for
the safe evacuation of all vehicles and people during the 100-year flood. The
plan shall be prepared by a registered engineer or other qualified individual,
shall demonstrate that adequate time and personnel exist to carry out the
evacuation, and shall demonstrate the provisions of division (C)(1)(a) and (C)
(1)(b) above of this section will be met. All attendant sewage and water
facilities for new or replacement recreational vehicles must be protected or
constructed so as to not be impaired or contaminated during times of flooding
in accordance with this division (C) of this section.
(Prior Code, § 11-80-8) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006; Ord. 296, passed 9-17-2009)
§ 152.755 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Zoning Administrator. A Zoning Administrator or other official
designated by the governing body shall administer and enforce this chapter. If
the Zoning Administrator finds a violation of the provisions of this
subchapter, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the person responsible for
the violation in accordance with the procedures stated in §
152.757 of this subchapter.
   (B)   Permit requirements.
      (1)   Permit required. A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator in
conformity with the provisions of this subchapter shall be secured prior to the
erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance
and repair) or alteration of any building, structure or portion thereof; prior
to the use or change of use of a building, structure or land; prior to the
construction of a dam, fence or on-site septic system; prior to the change or
extension of a nonconforming use; prior to the repair of a structure that has
been damaged by flood, fire, tornado or any other source; and prior to the
placement of fill, excavation of materials or the storage of materials or
equipment within the floodplain.
      (2)   Application for permit. Application for a permit shall be made in
duplicate to the Zoning Administrator on forms furnished by the Zoning
Administrator and shall include the following where applicable:
         (a)   Plans in duplicate drawn to scale, showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevations of the lot;
         (b)   Existing or proposed structures, fill or storage of materials;
and
         (c)   The location of the foregoing in relation to the stream channel.
      (3)   State and federal permits. Prior to granting a permit or processing
an application for a conditional use permit or variance, the Zoning
Administrator shall determine that the applicant has obtained all necessary
state and federal permits.
      (4)   Certificate of zoning compliance for a new, altered or
nonconforming use. It shall be unlawful to use, occupy or permit the use or
occupancy of any building or premises or part thereof hereafter created,
erected, changed, converted, altered or enlarged in its use or structure until
a certificate of zoning compliance shall have been issued by the Zoning
Administrator stating that the use of the building or land conforms to the
requirements of this subchapter.
      (5)   Construction and use to be as provided on applications, plans,
permits, variances and certificates of zoning compliance. Permits, conditional
use permits or certificates of zoning compliance issued on the basis of
approved plans and applications authorize only the use, arrangement and
construction set forth in the approved plans and applications, and no other
use, arrangement or construction. Any use, arrangement or construction at
variance with that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this subchapter,
and punishable as provided by §
152.757 of this subchapter.
      (6)   Certification. The applicant shall be required to submit
certification by a registered professional engineer, registered architect or
registered land surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were
accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
Floodproofing measures shall be certified by a registered professional engineer
or registered architect.
      (7)   Record of first floor elevation. The Zoning Administrator shall
maintain a record of the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new structures and alterations or additions to existing structures in the
floodplain. The Zoning Administrator shall also maintain a record of the
elevation to which structures or alterations and additions to structures are
floodproofed.
      (8)   Notifications for watercourse alterations. The Zoning Administrator
shall notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the Commissioner
of the Department of Natural Resources prior to the community authorizing any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse. If the applicant has applied for a
permit to work in the beds of public waters pursuant to M.S. Chapter 103G, as
it may be amended from time to time, shall suffice as adequate notice to the
Commissioner of Natural Resources. A copy of the notification shall also be
submitted to the Chicago Regional Office of the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA).
      (9)   Notification to FEMA when physical changes increase or decrease the
100-year flood elevation. As soon as is practicable, but not later than six
months after the date the supporting information becomes available, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the Chicago Regional Office of FEMA of the changes
by submitting a copy of the technical or scientific data.
   (C)   Board of Adjustment.
      (1)   Rules. The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for the conduct of
business and may exercise all of the powers conferred on those boards by state
law.
      (2)   Administrative review. The Board of Adjustment shall hear and
decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by an administrative official in the enforcement
or administration of this subchapter.
      (3)   Variances. The Board of Adjustment may authorize upon appeal in
specific cases relief or variance from the terms of this subchapter as will not
be contrary to the public interest and only for those circumstances such as
hardship, practical difficulties or circumstances unique to the property under
consideration, as provided for in the respective enabling legislation for
planning and zoning for cities or counties as appropriate. In the granting of a
variance, the Board of Adjustment shall clearly identify in writing the
specific conditions that existed consistent with the criteria specified in this
chapter, any other zoning regulations in the community, and in the respective
enabling legislation that justified the granting of the variance. No variance
shall have the effect of allowing in any district uses prohibited in that
district, permit a lower degree of flood protection than the regulatory flood
protection elevation for the particular area, or permit standards lower than
those required by state law. The following additional variance criteria of the
Federal Emergency Management Agency must be satisfied:
         (a)   Variances shall not be issued by a community within any
designated regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base
flood discharge would result;
         (b)   Variances shall only be issued by a community upon:
            1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
            3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
         (c)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Hearings. Upon filing with the Board of Adjustment of an appeal
from a decision of the Zoning Administrator, or an application for a variance,
the Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for a hearing and give due
notice to the parties in interest as specified by law. The Board of Adjustment
shall submit by mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources a copy of the
application for proposed variances sufficiently in advance so that the
Commissioner will receive at least ten days' notice of the hearing.
      (5)   Decisions. The Board of Adjustment shall arrive at a decision on
the appeal or variance within 30 days. In passing upon an appeal, the Board of
Adjustment may, so long as the action is in conformity with the provisions of
this subchapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning Administrator or other
public official. It shall make its decision in writing setting forth the
findings of fact and the reasons for its decisions. In granting a variance the
Board of Adjustment may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards such as
those specified in division (D)(6) below which are in conformity with the
purposes of this subchapter. Violations of these conditions and safeguards,
when made a part of the terms under which the variance is granted, shall be
deemed a violation of this subchapter punishable under §
152.757. A copy of all decisions granting variances shall be forwarded by mail
to the Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten days of the action.
      (6)   Appeals. Appeals from any decision of the Board of Adjustment may
be made, and as specified in this community's official controls and also by
state statutes.
      (7)   Flood insurance notice and record keeping.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant for a
variance that:
            1.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
            2.   The construction below the 100-year or regional flood level
increases risks to life and property. The notification shall be maintained with
a record of all variance actions. A community shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance and report
variances issued in its annual or biennial report submitted to the
Administrator of the National Flood Insurance Program.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The Planning Commission shall hear and make
recommendation to the City Council who will decide applications for conditional
uses permissible under this chapter. Applications shall be submitted to the
Zoning Administrator who shall forward the application to the Planning
Commission for consideration.
      (1)   Hearings. Upon filing with the Planning Commission an application
for a conditional use permit, the Planning Commission shall submit by mail to
the Commissioner of Natural Resources a copy of the application for proposed
conditional use sufficiently in advance so that the Commissioner will receive
at least ten days notice of the hearing.
      (2)   Decisions. The Planning Commission and City Council shall arrive at
a decision on a conditional use within 60 days. In granting a conditional use
permit the City Council shall prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards,
in addition to those specified in division (D)(6) below, which are in
conformity with the purposes of this subchapter. Violations of these conditions
and safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which the conditional use
permit is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this subchapter punishable
under §
152.757. A copy of all decisions granting conditional use permits shall be
forwarded by mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten days of
the action.
      (3)   Procedures to be followed by the Planning Commission and City
Council in passing on conditional use permit applications within all floodplain
districts.
         (a)   Require the applicant to furnish the following information and
additional information as deemed necessary by the Planning Commission and City
Council for determining the suitability of the particular site for the proposed
use:
            1.   Plans in triplicate drawn to scale showing the nature,
location, dimensions and elevation of the lot, existing or proposed structures,
fill, storage of materials, floodproofing measures and the relationship of the
above to the location of the stream channel; and
            2.   Specifications for building construction and materials,
floodproofing, filling, dredging, grading, channel improvement, storage of
materials, water supply and sanitary facilities.
         (b)   Transmit one copy of the information described in division (D)
(3)(a) above to a designated engineer or other expert person or agency for
technical assistance, where necessary, in evaluating the proposed project in
relation to flood heights and velocities, the seriousness of flood damage to
the use, the adequacy of the plans for protection and other technical matters;
and
         (c)   Based upon the technical evaluation of the designated engineer
or expert, the Planning Commission and City Council shall determine the
specific flood hazard at the site and evaluate the suitability of the proposed
use in relation to the flood hazard.
      (4)   Factors upon which the decision of the City Council shall be based.
In passing upon conditional use applications, the City Council shall consider
all relevant factors specified in other sections of this subchapter and:
         (a)   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights
or velocities caused by encroachments;
         (b)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others or they may block bridges, culverts or other
hydraulic structures;
         (c)   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability
of these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary conditions;
         (d)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of that damage on the individual owner;
         (e)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (f)   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location;
         (g)   The availability of alternative locations not subject to
flooding for the proposed use;
         (h)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development
and development anticipated in the foreseeable future;
         (i)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan
and floodplain management program for the area;
         (j)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (k)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site; and
         (l)   Other factors which are relevant to the purposes of this
subchapter.
      (5)   Time for acting on application. The Planning Commission and City
Council shall act on an application in the manner described above within 60
days from receiving the application, except that where additional information
is required pursuant to division (D)(3) above of this subchapter. The City
Council shall render a written decision within 60 days from the receipt of
additional information.
      (6)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits. Upon consideration
of the factors listed above and the purpose of this subchapter, the Planning
Commission and City Council shall attach conditions to the granting of
conditional use permits as it deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this
subchapter. These conditions may include, but are not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Modification of waste treatment and water supply facilities;
         (b)   Limitations on period of use, occupancy and operation;
         (c)   Imposition of operational controls, sureties and deed
restrictions;
         (d)   Requirements for construction of channel modifications,
compensatory storage, dikes, levees and other protective measures; and
         (e)   Floodproofing measures, in accordance with the State Building
Code and this chapter. The applicant shall submit a plan or document certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect that the floodproofing
measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection elevation and
associated flood factors for the particular area.
(Ord. 296, passed 9-17-2009)
§ 152.756 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of this subchapter but which is not in
conformity with the provisions of this subchapter may be continued subject to
the following conditions.
   (B)   Historic structures, as defined in §
152.746(H) of this subchapter, shall be subject to the provisions of division
(B)(1) through (B)(5) below.
      (1)   No use shall be expanded, changed, enlarged or altered in a way
that increases its nonconformity.
      (2)   Any structural alteration or addition to a nonconforming structure
or nonconforming use which would result in increasing the flood damage
potential of that structure or use shall be protected to the regulatory flood
protection elevation in accordance with any of the elevation on fill or
floodproofing techniques (i.e., FP-1 through FP-4 floodproofing
classifications) allowable in the State Building Code, except as further
restricted in division (A)(3) and (A)(6) below.
      (3)   The cost of all structural alterations or additions to any
nonconforming structure over the life of the structure shall not exceed 50% of
the market value of the structure unless the conditions of this section are
satisfied. The cost of all structural alterations and additions must include
all costs such as construction materials and a reasonable cost placed on all
manpower or labor. If the cost of all previous and proposed alterations and
additions exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure, then the structure
must meet the standards of §§
152.749 or
152.750 of this subchapter for new structures depending upon whether the
structure is in the Floodway or Flood Fringe District, respectively.
      (4)   If any nonconforming use is discontinued for 12 consecutive months,
any future use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The
Assessor shall notify the Zoning Administrator in writing of instances of
nonconforming uses that have been discontinued for a period of 12 months.
      (5)   If any nonconforming use or structure is substantially damaged, as
defined in §
152.746(H) of this subchapter, it shall not be reconstructed except in
conformity with the provisions of this subchapter. The applicable provisions
for establishing new uses or new structures in §§
152.749,
152.750 or
152.751 will apply depending upon whether the use or structure is in the
Floodway, Flood Fringe or General Floodplain District, respectively.
      (6)   If a substantial improvement occurs, as defined in §
152.746(H) of this subchapter, from any combination of a building addition to
the outside dimensions of the existing building or a rehabilitation,
reconstruction, alteration or other improvement to the inside dimensions of an
existing nonconforming building, then the building addition and the existing
nonconforming building must meet the requirements of §
152.749 or §
152.750 of this subchapter for new structures, depending upon whether the
structure is in the Floodway or Flood Fringe District, respectively.
(Ord. 296, passed 9-17-2009)
§ 152.757 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this subchapter or failure to comply
with any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or conditional uses) shall
constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as defined by law.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. These actions
may include, but are not limited to, the following.
      (1)   In responding to a suspected violation, the Zoning Administrator
and local government may utilize the full array of enforcement actions
available to it including but not limited to prosecution and fines,
injunctions, after-the-fact permits, orders for corrective measures or a
request to the National Flood Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance
availability to the guilty party. The community must act in good faith to
enforce these official controls and to correct violations to the extent
possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
      (2)   When a violation is either discovered by or brought to the
attention of the Zoning Administrator, the Zoning Administrator shall
immediately investigate the situation and document the nature and extent of the
violation of the official control. As soon as is reasonably possible, this
information will be submitted to the appropriate Department of Natural
Resources' and Federal Emergency Management Agency Regional Office along with
the community's plan of action to correct the violation to the degree possible.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the suspected party of the
requirements of this subchapter and all other official controls and the nature
and extent of the suspected violation of these controls. If the structure and/
or use is under construction or development, the Zoning Administrator may order
the construction or development immediately halted until a proper permit or
approval is granted by the community. If the construction or development is
already completed, then the Zoning Administrator may either:
         (a)   Issue an order identifying the corrective actions that must be
made within a specified time period to bring the use or structure into
compliance with the official controls; or
         (b)   Notify the responsible party to apply for an after-the-fact
permit/development approval within a specified period of time not to exceed 30
days.
      (4)   If the responsible party does not appropriately respond to the
Zoning Administrator within the specified period of time, each additional day
that lapses shall constitute an additional violation of this subchapter and
shall be prosecuted accordingly. The Zoning Administrator shall also upon the
lapse of the specified response period notify the landowner to restore the land
to the condition which existed prior to the violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 296, passed 9-17-2009)
§ 152.758 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The floodplain designation on the official zoning map shall not be
removed from floodplain areas unless it can be shown that the designation is in
error or that the area has been filled to or above the elevation of the
regulatory flood protection elevation and is contiguous to lands outside the
floodplain. Special exceptions to this rule may be permitted by the
Commissioner of Natural Resources if he or she determines that, through other
measures, lands are adequately protected for the intended use.
   (B)   All amendments to this chapter, including amendments to the official
zoning map, must be submitted to and approved by the Commissioner of Natural
Resources prior to adoption. Changes in the official zoning map must meet the
Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) technical conditions and criteria
and must receive prior FEMA approval before adoption. The Commissioner of
Natural Resources must be given ten days' written notice of all hearings to
consider an amendment to this chapter and the notice shall include a draft of
the amendment or technical study under consideration.
(Ord. 296, passed 9-17-2009)
WETLAND SYSTEMS DISTRICT
§ 152.770 PURPOSE.
   A district relating to low lands, marshes, wetlands, drainageways,
waterbodies and watercourses regulating alteration and development of the lands
and providing for the issuance of permits therefor, and specifically to:
   (A)   Reduce danger to the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the city by protecting surface and ground water supplies from the impairment
which results from incompatible land uses and alterations and by providing safe
and sanitary drainage;
   (B)   Restrict and control land development so it will not impede the flow
of flood water or cause danger to life or property;
   (C)   Designate suitable land uses that are compatible with the preservation
of the natural vegetation and marshes which are a principal factor in the
maintenance of constant rates of water flow through the year and which sustain
species of wildlife and plant growth;
   (D)   Regulate runoff of surface waters from developed areas to prevent
pollutants such as motor oils, sand, salt and other foreign materials from
being carried directly into the nearest natural stream, lake or other public or
private waters;
   (E)   Regulate the alteration of wetland systems to prevent excessive
sediment pollution, increased and rapid water runoff, excessive nutrient runoff
pollution and to maintain the aesthetic appearance of the wetlands; and
   (F)   Prevent the development of structures in areas which will adversely
affect the public passage and use of creeks, marshes, low lands and
watercourses within the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-81-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.771 DISTRICT APPLICATION.
   (A)   The Wetland Systems District shall be applied to and superimposed upon
all districts contained herein existing or amended by the text and map of this
subchapter. Under the joint application of districts, the more restrictive
requirements shall apply.
   (B)   The Wetland Systems District within the city is defined and
established to include those areas which include any watercourse, natural
drainage system, waterbody or wetland, that may be subject to periodic
flooding, overflow or seasonally high water tables. The district boundary lines
shall be established at the edge of the aforesaid areas as depicted on the city
wetlands systems map.
(Prior Code, § 11-81-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.772 PERMITTED USES.
   The following operations and uses are permitted in the Wetland Systems
District as a matter of right, subject to any other applicable code, city code,
provision or law:
   (A)   Grazing, farming, nurseries, gardening and harvesting of crops;
   (B)   Sustained yield forestry and tree farms;
   (C)   Conservation of soil vegetation, water, fish and wildlife;
   (D)   Scientific research and educational activities that teach principles
of ecology and conservation;
   (E)   Leisure activities such as hiking, nature studies, canoeing, boating,
camping, waterskiing, skin diving, horseback riding, field trails and general
outdoor recreation including play and sporting areas that are not inconsistent
with the intent of this subchapter; and
   (F)   Essential services.
(Prior Code, § 11-81-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.773 PROHIBITED USES.
   Except as may be hereinafter conditionally permitted, it is unlawful for any
person to:
   (A)   Place, deposit or permit to be deposited, debris, fill or any material
including structures into, within or upon any waterbody, watercourse or
wetland, floodplain or natural drainage system;
   (B)   Dig, dredge or in any other way alter or remove any material from
waterbodies, watercourses, wetlands, floodplains or natural drainage system;
   (C)   Erect structures for human habitation;
   (D)   Create ponds, dam or relocate any watercourse or change the natural
drainage system;
   (E)   Clear and/or cut trees or other vegetation;
   (F)   Permanently store materials;
   (G)   Erect signs; and/or
   (H)   Dispose of waste materials, including, but not limited to, sewage,
garbage, rubbish and other discarded materials.
(Prior Code, § 11-81-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.774 DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Wetland systems impact plan. Landowners or developers desiring to
develop land or construct any dwelling or any other artificial obstruction on
land located within any of the wetlands district within the city shall first
submit a conditional use permit application and a plan of development,
hereinafter referred to as a "wetland systems impact plan," which shall set
forth proposed provision for sediment control, water management, maintenance of
landscaped features and any additional matters intended to improve or maintain
the quality of the environment. The plan shall set forth proposed changes
requested by the applicant and affirmatively disclose what, if any, changes
will be made in the natural condition of the earth, including loss or change of
earth ground cover, destruction of trees, grade changes and its effect, if any,
upon lakes, streams, watercourses and marshes, low lands and wetlands in the
area. The plan shall minimize tree removal, ground cover change, loss of
natural vegetation and grade changes as much as possible, and shall
affirmatively provide for the relocation or replanting of as many trees as
possible which are proposed to be removed. The purpose of the wetland systems
impact plan shall be to eliminate as much as possible potential pollution,
erosion and siltation.
   (B)   High water elevation. For lakes, ponds or flowages, no structure,
except boat houses, piers and docks, shall be placed at an elevation so that
the lowest floor, including basement floor, is less than three feet above the
highest known water level. In those instances where sufficient data on known
high water levels are not available, the elevation of the line of permanent
shoreland vegetation shall be used as the estimated high water elevation. When
fill is required to meet this elevation, the fill shall be allowed to stabilize
and construction shall not begin until the property has been inspected by the
Planning Commission.
   (C)   State permit required. It is unlawful for any person to fill or
excavate in any wetland having an area of two and one-half acres or greater or
in any watercourse draining greater than two square miles without first
obtaining a permit from the State Department of Natural Resources.
(Prior Code, § 11-81-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
S, SHORELAND DISTRICT
§ 152.785 DESIGNATION OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Shoreland districts. The shoreland districts of the Little Cannon
River within the city are hereby designated as the Shoreland District. The
requirements set forth in this subchapter shall govern development and other
activities within these districts. The classification of the shoreland areas
shall govern the use, alteration and development of these areas according to
the classifications as per M.S. §§ 103F.201 through 103F.221, as it may be
amended from time to time, and Minn. Rules, parts 6120.2500 through 6120.3900.
   (B)   Cannon Recreational and Scenic River Land Use Districts. In order to
preserve and protect the Cannon River and its adjacent lands which possess
outstanding scenic, recreational, natural, historical, scientific and similar
values, the Cannon River in the city has been designated as a state wild,
scenic and recreational river. The uses and classifications of this river and
its adjacent lands are hereby designated by two land use zoning districts: the
CR, Cannon Recreational River District and the CS, Cannon Scenic River
District. These district designations shall govern the use, alteration and
development of these areas, in accordance with M.S. §§ 103F.301 through
103F.345, as it may be amended from time to time, Minn. Rules, parts 6105.0010
through 6105.0250, 6105.1550 through 6105.1700 and 6120.2500 through 6120.3900.
(Prior Code, § 11-82-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.786 DISTRICT APPLICATION.
   (A)   The S, Shoreland, CR, Cannon Recreational River and CS, Cannon Scenic
River Districts shall be applied to and superimposed upon all zoning districts
as contained herein as existing or amended by the text and map of this
subchapter.
   (B)   The regulations and requirements imposed by these districts shall be
in addition to those established for districts which jointly apply.
   (C)   Under the joint application of districts, the more restrictive
requirements shall apply.
   (D)   In case of conflict between a provision of the state wild, scenic and
recreational rivers statewide standards and criteria and some other law of this
state or existing city code provisions, the more protective provision shall
apply.
(Prior Code, § 11-82-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.787 BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Boundaries of Shoreland District. The boundaries of the Shoreland
District are established 300 feet from the ordinary high water mark of the
Little Cannon River. The boundary distance requirement shall be increased to
the limit of the floodplain when the floodplain is greater than 300 feet.
   (B)   Cannon River Districts.
      (1)   The lands within the boundaries of the CR District shall include
Government Lot 9; the north one-half of Government Lot 10; all of Government
Lot 11 west of the river; and all remaining lands within 300 feet of the
ordinary high water mark of the Cannon River in the southeast quarter and
Government Lots 10, 11 and 12, all in Section 7, Township 112 North, Range 17
West; all lands within 300 feet of the ordinary high water mark of the Cannon
River in Section 18, Township 112 North, Range 17 West; and those lands south
of the Cannon River within the southwest quarter that are north of the railroad
and those lands south of the Cannon River within the west one-half of the
southeast quarter, all in Section 8, Township 112 North, Range 17 West.
      (2)   The lands within the boundaries of the CS District shall include
those lands north of the Cannon River within the southwest quarter, west one-
half of the southeast quarter, and south one-quarter of the northwest quarter,
all in Section 8, Township 112 North, Range 17 West; and all other lands that
may be annexed to the city from the county within the Cannon Recreational and
Scenic River Land Use Districts, as identified in Minn. Rules, part 6105.1680.
      (3)   In case of conflict between this subchapter and the property
description in Minn. Rules, parts 6105.1610, 6105.1670 and 6105.1680, the
latter shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 11-82-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.788 MINIMUM LOT AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum area setbacks; other requirements. The following chart sets
forth the minimum area setbacks and other requirements of each respective
district.
 S District CR District CS District
                                        S District    CR District   CS District
Maximum impervious surface to area      30%           30%           NA
ratio
Maximum structure height3               35 feet       35 feet       35 feet
Minimum lot size above ordinary high
water mark
   Non-sewered1                      1 acre        1 acre        4 acres
   Sewered, abutting water           15,000 square 20,000 square 4 acres
                                        feet          feet
   Sewered, non-abutting             15,000 square 15,000 square 4 acres
                                        feet          feet
Minimum lot width1
   Non-sewered                       100 feet      150 feet      250 feet
   Sewered                           80 feet       80 feet       250 feet
On-site sewage treatment system setback 50 feet       75 feet       100 feet
from ordinary high water mark
Setback of roads and parking
(impervious surface) areas from         50 feet       50 feet       NA
ordinary high water mark4
Structure setback from bluff line       30 feet       NA            NA
Structure setback from ordinary high
water mark2
   Non-sewered                       200 feet      200 feet      200 feet
   Sewered                           75 feet       75 feet       150 feet
Structure setback from public streets2
   Abutting federal, state or county 50 feet       50 feet       NA
road
   Abutting town or public road      30 feet       30 feet       NA
1   Lot size requirements in unsewered areas are also subject to provisions in
the A District. Lot width for the CR and SC Districts applies to both the
ordinary high water mark line and at the building line.
2   In the S District, where development exists on both sides of a proposed
building site, building setbacks may be altered to more closely conform to
adjacent building setbacks.
3   For the CR and CS Districts, buildings used primarily for agricultural
purposes may exceed 35 feet. No other exceptions to the height provision are
allowed.
4   Where feasible and practical, all roads and parking areas shall meet the
setback requirements established for structures in §
152.500. Natural vegetation or other natural materials shall be required in
order to screen parking areas when viewed from the water.
 
   (B)   Substandard lot. Any lot of record filed in the office of the County
Recorder on the effective date of this chapter amendment which does not meet
the area requirements of this subchapter may be allowed as a building site
subject to approval of a shoreland impact plan and provided as follows.
      (1)   The lot meets all standards of the applicable zoning use district.
      (2)   The lot is in separate ownership from abutting lands.
      (3)   Except for lot area, all other sanitary and dimensional
requirements of these districts are complied with insofar as practical (70%
width and setback requirements).
      (4)   If in a group of two or more contiguous lots under a single
ownership in the CS District, any individual lot does not meet the minimum lot
width requirements of this section, the individual lot cannot be considered as
a separate parcel of land for purposes of sale or development, but must be
combined with adjacent lots under the same ownership so that the combination of
lots will equal one or more parcels of land each meeting the lot width
requirement of this section, or to the greatest extent practicable.
   (C)   Placement of structures.
      (1)   Placement of structures shall comply with the provisions of the
Floodplain District.
      (2)   In the CS District, no structure shall be placed on any slope
greater than 13% unless:
         (a)   Sewage treatment system facilities can be installed so as to
comply with the sanitary provisions of this subchapter;
         (b)   Structures must be adequately screened;
         (c)   It must be proven that any potential or actual erosion or
sedimentation problems do not exist and that adequate measures shall be taken
to prevent them;
         (d)   Where bearing capacity is in doubt, soil boring samples must be
taken; and
         (e)   Consideration must be given to color and architectural design
(including roof slope and orientation), subject to the approval of the Planning
Commission.
      (3)   In the CS District, the density of dwelling units shall not exceed
one dwelling unit per lot.
   (D)   Nonconforming structures. All structures in existence prior to the
effective date of this section which are permitted uses within the CS District,
but do not meet the minimum lot area, setbacks or other dimensional
requirements of this section shall be allowed to continue subject to the
following conditions and exceptions.
      (1)   Any structure alteration or addition to a nonconforming structure
which will increase the nonconforming dimensions shall not be allowed.
      (2)   Nonconforming signs shall be gradually eliminated over a period of
time not to exceed five years from the effective date of this section.
(Prior Code, § 11-82-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.789 DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Application and plan. Landowners or developers desiring to develop
land or construct any dwelling or any other artificial obstruction on land
located within any Shoreland, CR or CS District within the city shall first
submit a conditional use permit application and a plan of development,
hereinafter referred to as "shoreland impact plan," which shall set forth
proposed provisions for sediment control, water management, maintenance of
landscaped features and any additional matters intended to improve or maintain
the quality of the environment. The plan shall set forth proposed changes
requested by the applicant and affirmatively disclose what, if any, change will
be made in the natural condition of the earth, including loss or change of
earth ground cover, destruction of trees, grade courses and marshes. The plan
shall minimize tree removal, ground cover change, loss of natural vegetation
and grade changes as much as possible, and shall affirmatively provide for the
relocation or replanting of as many trees as possible which are proposed to be
removed. The purpose of the shoreland impact plan shall be to eliminate as much
as possible potential pollution, erosion and siltation.
      (1)   Exceptions.
         (a)   No conditional use permit or shoreland impact plan shall be
required for the development of permitted accessory uses contained within R-
1 Districts.
         (b)   No conditional use permit or shoreland impact plan shall be
required for the development of permitted uses contained within the R-
1 District provided that the uses are constructed on standard lots when
abutting a shoreline and that all uses are constructed on standard lots when
abutting a shoreline and that all uses are served with public sanitary sewer.
      (2)   Subdivision. No land shall be subdivided which is determined by the
city or the Commissioner of Natural Resources to be unsuitable by reason of
flooding, inadequate drainage, soil and rock formations with severe limitations
for development, severe erosion potential, unfavorable topography, inadequate
water supply or sewage treatment capabilities or another feature likely to be
harmful to the health, safety or welfare of the future residents of the
proposed subdivision or the community.
      (3)   CR Cannon Recreational District. In addition to permitted and
conditional uses otherwise allowed in the zoning districts which jointly apply,
the following uses are:
         (a)   Permitted.
            1.   Governmental campgrounds, subject to management plan
specifications;
            2.   Public accesses, road access type with boat launching
facilities subject to management plan specifications;
            3.   Public accesses, trail access type, subject to management plan
specifications; and
            4.   Other governmental open space recreational uses, subject to
management plan specifications.
         (b)   Conditional.
            1.   Private campgrounds subject to management plan specifications;
and
            2.   Other private open space recreational uses, subject to
management plan specifications.
      (4)   CS Cannon Scenic River District. The following uses are permitted
or conditional. All uses not listed as permitted or conditional shall not be
allowed within the CS District.
         (a)   Permitted.
            1.   Governmental campgrounds, subject to management plan
specifications;
            2.   Public accesses, road access type with boat launching
facilities subject to management plan specifications;
            3.   Public accesses, trail access type, subject to management plan
specifications;
            4.   Other governmental open space recreational uses, subject to
management plan specifications;
            5.   Agricultural uses;
            6.   Single-family residential uses;
            7.   Forestry uses;
            8.   Essential services;
            9.   Sewage treatment systems;
            10.   Private roads and minor public streets;
            11.   Signs approved by federal, state or local government which
are necessary for public health and safety and signs indicating areas that are
available or not available for public use;
            12.   Signs not visible from the river that are not specified in
division (A)(4)(a)11. above; and
            13.   Governmental resource management for improving fish and
wildlife habitat; wildlife management areas; natural areas; accessory roads.
         (b)   Conditional.
            1.   Private campgrounds subject to management plan specifications;
            2.   Temporary docks;
            3.   Other private open space recreational uses, subject to
management plan specifications;
            4.   Utility transmission power lines and pipelines, subject to the
provisions of this section;
            5.   Public roads subject to the provisions of this section; and
            6.   Canoe rental establishments.
   (B)   Sewage and waste disposal. Any premises used for human occupancy shall
be provided with an adequate method of sewage disposal to be maintained in
accordance with acceptable practices.
      (1)   Public sanitary sewer collection and treatment facilities. Public
sanitary sewer collection and treatment facilities must be used where available
and where feasible.
      (2)   Private sewage and other sanitary waste disposal systems. All
private sewage and other sanitary waste disposal systems shall conform to
applicable standards, criteria, rules and regulations of the city, the State
Department of Health and the Pollution Control Agency's standards for
individual sewage treatment systems (Minn. Rules, Chapter 7080).
      (3)   Septic tank drainage field system. A septic tank drainage field
system shall be the only acceptable system for installation unless it can be
demonstrated that this system is not feasible on the particular lot in question
and it can be demonstrated that the system being proposed as an alternate will
not cause a pollution problem.
      (4)   Location and installation of a septic tank and soil absorption
system. Location and installation of a septic tank and soil absorption system
shall be so that, with reasonable maintenance, it will function in a sanitary
manner and will not create a nuisance, endanger the quality of any domestic
water supply, nor pollute or contaminate any waters of the state. In
determining a suitable location for the system, consideration shall be given to
the size and shape of the lot, slope of natural and finished grade, soil
permeability, high ground water elevation, geology, proximity to existing or
future water supplies, accessibility for maintenance and possible expansion of
the system.
      (5)   Permit required. It is unlawful for any person to install, alter,
repair or extend any individual sewer disposal system without first obtaining a
permit therefor from the city for the specific installation, alteration, repair
or extension.
      (6)   Setback requirements. Placement of septic tank soil absorption
systems shall be subject to the following setback requirements where soil
conditions are adequate:
         (a)   Within the S District, at least 50 feet from the ordinary high
water mark;
         (b)   Within the CR District, at least 75 feet from the ordinary high
water mark; and
         (c)   Within the CS District, at least 100 feet from the ordinary high
water mark.
      (7)   Soil absorption systems. Soil absorption systems shall not be
allowed in the following areas for disposal of domestic sewage:
         (a)   Low swampy areas or areas subject to recurrent flooding;
         (b)   Areas where the highest known ground water table, bedrock or
impervious soil conditions are within four feet of the bottom of the system;
and
         (c)   Areas of ground slope which create a danger of seepage of the
effluent onto the surface of the ground.
      (8)   Nonconformity. All sanitary facilities inconsistent with
requirements of this section shall be brought into conformity within five years
after the date of adoption of this subchapter, or discontinued when there is
evidence of septic tank effluent percolating from the ground, flowing directly
into a lake or stream or other indications of system failure.
   (C)   Water supply. Any private supply of water for domestic purposes shall
conform to the State Department of Health Standards for water quality. Private
wells shall be placed in areas not subject to flooding and up slope from any
source of contamination. Wells already existing in areas subject to flooding
shall be floodproofed in accordance with city standards.
   (D)   High water elevations. Structures must be placed at an elevation
consistent with the Floodplain District regulations.
   (E)   Utility transmission crossings. All utility crossings of the Cannon
River require a license from the Commissioner of Natural Resources pursuant to
M.S. § 84.415, as it may be amended from time to time. All utility
transmissions constructed within the CS District shall require a conditional
use permit. The construction of transmission services shall be subject to Minn.
Rules, parts 6105.0170 and 6105.0180. No conditional use permit shall be
required for high voltage transmission lines under control of the Environmental
Quality Board pursuant to M.S. § 216E.10, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (F)   Public roads. In addition to permits as may be required by M.S. §
103G.245, as it may be amended from time to time, a conditional use permit
shall be required for any construction or reconstruction of public roads within
the CS District. The construction or reconstruction shall be subject to Minn.
Rules, parts 6105.0190 and 6105.0200.
(Prior Code, § 11-82-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.790 LANDSCAPE ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Removal of natural vegetation. The removal of natural vegetation shall
be restricted to prevent erosion into public waters, to consume nutrients in
the soil and to preserve shoreland aesthetics.
      (1)   Clear cutting is prohibited, except as necessary for placing public
roads, utilities, structures and parking areas, which are placed in accordance
with the city code.
      (2)   Natural vegetation shall be restored insofar as feasible after any
construction project.
      (3)   Selective cutting of trees and underbrush is allowed as long as
sufficient cover is left to make cars and structures inconspicuous when viewed
from the water.
      (4)   In the CS District, a continuous tree cover is maintained,
uninterrupted by large openings when selective cutting occurs under division
(A)(3) above of this section.
   (B)   Grading and filling.
      (1)   Grading and filling within the Shoreland, CR and CS Districts, or
any alterations of the natural topography where the slope of the land is toward
a public water or watercourse leading to a public water must be approved by the
Planning Commission and a permit obtained prior to the commencement of any work
thereon. The permit may be granted subject to the conditions that follow.
         (a)   No more than one-third of the surface area of a lot shall be
devoid of vegetative ground cover at any one time.
         (b)   Temporary ground cover such as mulch shall be used and permanent
cover such as sod shall be planted as soon as possible.
         (c)   Methods to prevent erosion and trap sediment shall be employed
in accordance with
Chapter 151.
         (d)   Fill shall not be placed in areas lower in elevation than the
normal high water mark.
         (e)   Fill shall be stabilized according to accepted engineering
standards.
         (f)   Fill shall not restrict a floodway or destroy the storage
capacity of a floodplain.
         (g)   The maximum slope of the finished surface which slopes toward a
public water shall be six units horizontal to one vertical.
         (h)   No grading or filling shall be permitted within 20 feet of the
ordinary high water mark of a public water.
         (i)   Grading and filling of the natural topography which is not
accessory to a permitted or conditional use shall not be permitted in the CS
District.
         (j)   In the CS District, grading and filing shall be performed in a
manner which minimizes earth moving, erosion, tree clearing and the destruction
of natural amenities and the smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for as
short a time as feasible.
         (k)   Drainage or filling in of wetlands is not allowed within the CS
District.
      (2)   Any work which will change or diminish the course, current or
cross-section of a public water must be approved by the Department of Natural
Resources as per M.S. § 103G.245, as it may be amended from time to time,
before the work is begun. Excavation on shorelands where the intended purpose
is connected to a public water, such as boat slips, canals, lagoons and
harbors, shall require a permit from the Planning Commission prior to
commencement of construction. The permit shall be obtained only after the
Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources has approved the proposed
connection to public waters.
(Prior Code, § 11-82-6) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.791 PLANNED UNIT AND PLANNED CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT.
   The Planned Unit Development (PUD) provisions may be utilized within a
Shoreland, CR or CS District, provided that the following requirements are
satisfactorily met.
   (A)   Preliminary plans shall be approved by the Department of Natural
Resources prior to city approval.
   (B)   Central sewage facilities are installed which at least meet the
applicable standards, criteria, rules or regulations of the State Department of
Health and the Pollution Control Agency or the PUD/Planned Cluster Development
(PCD) is connected to a public sanitary sewer.
   (C)   Sufficient open space is preserved through the use of restrictive deed
covenants, public dedications and the like.
   (D)   The following factors are carefully evaluated to ensure that the
increased density of the development is consistent with the resource
limitations of the public water:
      (1)   Suitability of the site for the proposed use;
      (2)   Physical and aesthetic impact of increased density;
      (3)   Level of current development;
      (4)   Amount and ownership of undeveloped shoreland;
      (5)   Levels and types of water surface use and public access; and
      (6)   Possible effects on overall public use.
   (E)   In the S or CR Districts, any commercial, recreational, community or
religious facility allowed as part of the PUD conforms to all applicable
federal and state regulations including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Licensing provisions or procedures;
      (2)   Waste disposal regulations;
      (3)   Water supply regulations;
      (4)   Building codes;
      (5)   Safety regulations;
      (6)   Regulations concerning the appropriate use of public waters as
defined in M.S. § 103G.005, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (7)   Applicable regulations of the State Environmental Quality Council;
and
      (8)   Storm sewer.
   (F)   The final PUD/PCD shall not be modified or altered in any way without
written approval from the Department of Natural Resources.
   (G)   PUDs/PCDs incorporating shoreline recreational facilities such as
beaches, docks or boat launching facilities and the like shall be designed so
that the facilities are centralized for common utilization.
   (H)   In the CS District, only PCDs, a pattern of subdivision development
which places housing units into compact groupings while providing a commonly
owned or dedicated open space, are allowed. Smaller lot sizes may be allowed as
exceptions to this section for PCDs in this district provided as follows.
      (1)   A PCD may be allowed only when the proposed clustering provides a
better means of preserving agricultural land, open space, woods, scenic views,
wetlands and other features of the natural environment than traditional
subdivision development.
      (2)   The only uses that shall be allowed within the development are
those allowed for the CS District.
   (3)   The PCD conforms to all applicable federal and state regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-82-7) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.792 VARIANCES.
   Variances may be granted by the Council upon application in extraordinary
cases but only when the proposed use is determined to be in the public interest
and no variance shall be granted which the Council determines will or has a
tendency to:
   (A)   Result in the placement of an artificial obstruction which will
restrict the passage of storm and flood water in a manner as to increase the
height of flooding, except obstructions approved by the Watershed Districts in
conjunction with sound floodplain management and allowed by the Floodplain
District regulations;
   (B)   Result in incompatible land uses or which would be detrimental to the
protection of surface and ground water supplies;
   (C)   Be not in keeping with land use plans and planning objectives for the
city or which will increase or cause danger to life or property;
   (D)   Be inconsistent with the objectives of encouraging land uses
compatible with the preservation of the natural land forms, vegetation and the
marshes and wetlands within the city; and
   (E)   No permit or variance shall be issued unless the applicant has
submitted a Shoreland Impact Plan as required and set forth in this subchapter.
In granting any variance, the Council may attach conditions as it deems
necessary to ensure compliance with the purpose and intent of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-82-8) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.793 NOTIFYING AND CERTIFYING CERTAIN ACTIONS IN THE CR, CANNON
RECREATIONAL AND CS, CANNON SCENIC RIVER LAND USE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Review and certification procedure. In order to ensure that the
standards herein are not nullified by unjustified exceptions in particular
cases and to promote uniformity in the treatment of application for the
exceptions, a review and certification procedure is hereby established for
certain zoning decisions. These certain decisions consist of any decisions
which directly affect the use land within the CR and CS Districts and are one
of the following types of action:
      (1)   Adopting or amending an ordinance regulating the use of land,
including rezoning of particular tracts of land;
      (2)   Granting a variance from a provision of this subchapter which
relates to the zoning dimension provisions of Minn. Rules, part 6105.0110 and
any other zoning dimension provisions established in the management plan; and
      (3)   Approving a plat which is inconsistent with this subchapter.
   (B)   Certification. No action shall be effective unless and until the
Commissioner of Natural Resources has certified that the action complies with
the State Wild and Scenic Rivers Act being M.S. §§ 103F.301 through 103F.345,
the statewide standards and criteria and the management plan; and conforms to
the following decision guides.
      (1)   A land use ordinance or amendment must comply with the act, the
statewide standards and criteria and the management plan.
      (2)   The granting of a variance complies with the provisions contained
in §
152.792 of this subchapter and requires the presence of all of the following
conditions.
         (a)   The strict enforcement of the land use controls will result in
unnecessary hardship. Hardship as used in connection with the granting of a
variance means the property in question cannot be put to a reasonable use under
the conditions allowed by the zoning provisions. Economic considerations alone
shall not constitute a hardship if any reasonable use for the property exists
under the terms of this chapter.
         (b)   Granting of the variance is not contrary to the purpose and
intent of this section and is consistent with Minn. Rules, parts 6105.1550
through 6105.1700.
         (c)   There are exceptional circumstances unique to the subject
property which were not created by the landowner.
         (d)   Granting the variance will not allow any use which is neither a
permitted or conditional use in the land use district in which the subject
property is located.
         (e)   Granting of the variance will not alter the essential character
of the locality.
         (f)   Exception. Where a setback pattern from the ordinary high water
level has already been established on both sides of a proposed building site,
the setback of the proposed structure may be allowed to conform to that
pattern. This provision shall apply only to lots which do not meet the minimum
lot width requirements of this section.
      (3)   Approval of a plat which is inconsistent with this subchapter is
permissible only if the detrimental impact of the inconsistency is more than
overcome by other protective characteristics of the proposal.
   (C)   Procedures for certification.
      (1)   A copy of all notices of any public hearings, or where a public
hearing is not required, a copy of the application to consider zoning
amendments, variances or inconsistent plats under the zoning regulations shall
be received by the Commissioner of Natural Resources at least 30 days prior to
the hearings or meetings to consider the actions. The notice or application
shall include a copy of the proposed ordinance or amendment, or a copy of the
proposed inconsistent plat or a description of the requested variance.
      (2)   The city shall notify the Commissioner of Natural Resources of its
final decision on the proposed action, within ten days of the decision.
      (3)   The Commissioner of Natural Resources shall, no later than 30 days
from the time he or she receives notice of the final decision, communicate to
the city either:
         (a)   Certification of approval, with or without conditions; or
         (b)   Notice of non-approval.
      (4)   The action becomes effective when and only when either:
         (a)   The final decision taken by the city has previously received
certification of approval from the Commissioner of Natural Resources;
         (b)   The city receives certification of approval after its final
decision;
         (c)   Thirty days have elapsed from the date the Commissioner of
Natural Resources received notice of the final decision, and the city has
received from the Commissioner of Natural Resources neither certification of
approval nor notice of non-approval; or
         (d)   The Commissioner of Natural Resources certifies his or her
approval after conducting a public hearing.
      (5)   In the case of a notice of non-approval of an ordinance or a
variance or an inconsistent plat, either the applicant, or the chief executive
officer of the county or municipality, may within 30 days of the notice, file
with the Commissioner of Natural Resources a demand for hearing. If the demand
for hearing is not made within the 30 days, the notice of non-approval becomes
final.
         (a)   The hearing shall be held in an appropriate local community
within 60 days of the demand for it but not before two weeks published notice.
Notice and the conduct of the hearing and the allocation of costs of the
hearing shall be accomplished in the same manner as provided in M.S. §
103F.373, as it may be amended from time to time.
         (b)   Within 30 days after the hearing, the Commissioner of Natural
Resources shall either certify his or her approval of the proposed action, or
deny it. His or her decision shall be based upon findings of fact made on
substantial evidence found in the hearing record. If the Commissioner of
Natural Resources concludes that the proposed action satisfies the standards
and criteria of Minn. Rules, part 6105.0230, subpart 2, then he or she shall
certify his or her approval; otherwise, he or she shall deny it.
   (D)   Conditional use permits. A copy of all notices of any public hearing,
or where a public hearing is not required, a copy of the application to
consider issuance of a conditional use permit shall be sent so as to be
received by the Commissioner at least 30 days prior to a hearing or meeting to
consider issuance of a conditional use permit. A copy of the decision shall be
forwarded to the Commissioner within ten days of the action.
   (E)   Plats. Copies of all plats shall be forwarded to the Commissioner
within ten days of approval by the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-82-9) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.794 NOTIFICATION PROCEDURES.
   Copies of all notices of any public hearings to consider variances,
amendments, plats or conditional uses affecting the Shoreland District will be
received by the Commissioner at least ten days prior to the hearing. A copy of
approved amendments and plats and final decisions granting variances or
conditional uses shall be received by the Commissioner within ten days of final
action.
(Prior Code, § 11-82-10) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.795 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   The granting of any permit, variance or subdivision approval under
provisions of this section shall in no way affect the owner's capability to
obtain the approval required by any other statute, ordinance or legislation of
any state agency or subdivision herein. Approval may be expressly given in
conjunction with other permits applied for, but no approval shall be implied
from the grant of the permits nor from the necessity to apply for a permit as
described herein.
(Prior Code, § 11-82-11) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
BP, BLUFF PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 152.810 PURPOSE.
   This BP, Bluff Protection Overlay District is created to protect and
preserve areas in the community where bluffs and steep slopes represent an
enhancement to the community and a risk of impairment to the health, safety,
tax base and general welfare of the community if left unprotected. Its intent
is to establish reasonable regulations related to development upon and adjacent
to steep slope areas in the community.
(Prior Code, § 11-83-1) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.811 DISTRICT APPLICATION.
   The BP District shall be applied to and superimposed upon all zoning
districts as contained herein as existing or amended by the text and map of
this subchapter. The regulations and requirements imposed by the BP District
shall be in addition to those established for districts which jointly apply.
Under the joint application of districts, the more restrictive requirements
shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 11-83-2) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.812 BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the BP District shall be defined as those lots in the city
which contain bluffs and/or steep slopes. The boundaries of the bluff impact
zones shall be graphically represented on preliminary and final subdivision
plats as slope easements.
(Prior Code, § 11-83-3) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.813 DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Persons desiring to construct a structure, perform grading or earth-
moving activities or destroy or remove vegetation from land located within the
BP District, but not within the bluff impact zone, shall only do so following
review and approval by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Persons desiring to construct a structure, perform grading or earth-
moving activities or destroy or remove vegetation from land located within a
bluff impact zone, shall only do so following issuance of a conditional use
permit as prescribed in this section.
   (C)   The plan to be submitted for consideration with regard to Planning
Commission review or the conditional use permit shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Existing site conditions including all structures, shrub masses,
trees and topographic conditions and site boundaries;
      (2)   Proposed structures and site improvements, grading changes, tree
and vegetation removal and landscaping improvements, including trees, shrubs
and ground covers;
      (3)   Height and size of any structures proposed to be constructed;
      (4)   Timetable for anticipated dates of construction;
      (5)   Location and design of any private sewage and other sanitary waste
disposal systems; and
      (6)   Erosion control plan during and after construction.
   (D)   Considerations for approval or denial of the conditional use permit
shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Degree to which the intent of this section is addressed in the
proposal;
      (2)   Compliance with the bulk and setback requirements of this district;
      (3)   Degree to which tree and vegetation removal and slope alteration
has been minimized in the proposed development;
      (4)   Appropriateness of the proposed plat material for the site for
slope protection purposes;
      (5)   The degree to which dislocated vegetation can be relocated or
replanted on the site; and
      (6)   Minimization of hard surfacing or other impervious materials within
35 feet of the bluff or steep slope.
(Prior Code, § 11-83-4) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
§ 152.814 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   The following requirements shall be imposed on all development in the BP
District.
   (A)   Structures shall not be placed within bluff impact zones, except for
permissible yard setback encroachments as permitted in this chapter.
   (B)   The maximum height of any structure shall be no more than 35 feet.
   (C)   No person may conduct a mining or quarry activity or expand a mining
or quarry activity within 30 feet of the toe or top of the bluff or in a BP
District.
   (D)   No tower shall be located within one-quarter mile of the bluff impact
zone, except for water reservoirs owned and constructed by the city.
   (E)   No grading, excavating or filling shall be allowed within the bluff
impact zones.
   (F)   Grading and filling within the BP District, but not within a bluff
impact zone, shall comply with the following conditions.
      (1)   No more than one-third of the surface area of a lot shall be devoid
of vegetative ground cover at any time.
      (2)   Temporary ground cover such as mulch shall be used and permanent
cover such as sod shall be planted as soon as possible.
      (3)   Methods to prevent erosion and trap sediment shall be employed in
accordance with regulations of the State Pollution Control Agency and
acceptable engineering practices.
      (4)   Fill shall be stabilized according to accepted engineering
standards.
      (5)   A soil erosion control plan must be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator before grading or construction begins on any lot affected by the
regulations of this section.
      (6)   Methods, such as silt fences, hay bales and the like must be used
to minimize soil erosion and to trap sediments before they reach any surface
water features.
      (7)   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in a manner that
creates an unstable slope.
      (8)   Alterations of topography will only be allowed if they are
accessory to permitted or conditional uses and do not adversely affect adjacent
or nearby properties.
   (G)   The removal of natural vegetation shall be restricted to prevent
erosion into public waters, to consume nutrients in the soil and to preserve
steep slope aesthetics.
   (H)   Clearcutting is prohibited, except to remove the minimum amount of
vegetation necessary for placing roads, utilities, structures and parking
areas.
   (I)   Natural vegetation shall be restored insofar as feasible after any
construction project.
   (J)   All stairways and lifts on bluffs shall be visually conspicuous.
Stairways and lifts are the preferred alternatives to major topographic
alterations for achieving access up and down bluffs and steep slopes.
Stairways, lifts and landings shall meet the following design requirements.
      (1)   Stairways and lifts must not exceed four feet in width on
residential lots. Wider stairways may be used for commercial properties, public
open space, recreational properties and planned unit developments.
      (2)   Landings for stairways and lifts on residential lots must not
exceed 32 square feet in area. Landings larger than 32 square feet may be used
for commercial properties, public open space, recreational properties and
planned unit developments.
      (3)   Canopies or roofs are not allowed in stairways, lifts or landings.
      (4)   Stairways, lifts and landings may be either constructed on posts or
pilings, or placed into the ground, provided they are designed in a manner that
ensures control of soil erosion.
      (5)   Stairways, lifts and landings must be located in the most visually
inconspicuous portion of lots, as viewed from adjacent areas, assuming summer,
leaf-on conditions whenever practical.
   (K)   Vegetation alterations necessary for the construction of structures
and sewage treatment systems are exempt from the vegetation alteration
standards.
   (L)   Vegetation alterations necessary for the construction of roads and
parking areas are exempt from the vegetation alteration standards.
   (M)   (1)   Limited removal of vegetation is allowed subject to the
following standards.
      (2)   On steep slopes, which are not located in bluff impact zones,
selective clearing, cutting, pruning and trimming of trees and shrubs is
allowed to provide a view from the dwelling site and to accommodate the
placement of stairways, lifts, landings, picnic areas, access paths, beach and
watercraft access areas and permitted water-oriented accessory structures or
facilities, provided that:
         (a)   The screening of structures, vehicles or other facilities as
viewed from adjacent areas, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, is not reduced
by more than 25%;
         (b)   Along waterways, existing shading of water surface is preserved;
and
         (c)   The above provisions are not applicable to the removal of trees,
limbs or branches that are dead, diseased or pose safety hazards.
(Prior Code, § 11-83-5) (Ord. 258, passed 5-4-2006)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   ANNEXATIONS
         
II.   CHARTER AMENDMENTS
         
III.   FRANCHISES
         
IV.   MORATORIUMS
         
V.   SALE OF REAL ESTATE
         
VI.   ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexing the west one-half of the southeast quarter lying
123      12-5-1963   south of the Big Cannon River and all of the southwest
                     quarter lying between the Big Cannon River and the Chicago
                     Great Western Railway right-of-way, 8-112-17.
154      8-5-1976    Annexing parts of the west half of northwest quarter, 17-
                     112-17.
                     Annexing part of south half of northwest quarter, 8-112-17
34       8-18-1983   and north half of southeast quarter of Section 8 North of
                     south line of the river and southwest quarter Section 8
                     North of south line of river, 112-17.
61       9-5-1985    Annexing part of west half of northwest quarter, 17-112-
                     17.
                     Annexing part of the southwest quarter of the southeast
                     quarter of Section 19 and part of the northwest quarter of
326      4-2-2013    the northeast quarter of Section 30, both in Township 112
                     North, Range 17 West, Goodhue County, being approximately
                     12.97 acres.
332      10-1-2013   Annexing property containing approximately 52.43 acres, as
                     described in the ordinance.
                     Annexing property containing approximately 5.56 acres,
333      12-17-2013  located in Lot 3, Section 30, Township 112, Range 17,
                     Goodhue County.
356      12-5-2017   Annexing property located in Section 19, Township 112,
                     Range 01, being approximately 9.8 acres.
374      3-16-2021   Annexing 12.40 acres of the south half of the northeast
                     quarter of Section 7, Township 112 North, Range 17 West.
                    
 
TABLE II: CHARTER AMENDMENTS
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
44   3-15-  Amending § 3.08 of the City Charter to provide for publication of ordinances
     1984   in summary form.
119  12-19- Amending § 5.01 of the City Charter relating to city elections.
     1991
            Amending City Charter, §§ 2.02 relating to Council Composition, Election,
     11-2-  Qualification and Terms; 2.06 relating to Mayor Pro-Tem; 3.01 relating to
163  1995   Council Organization; and 5.01 relating to Regular Elections; renumbers §
            12.07 as 12.07, Subdivision 1; and adds § 12.07, Subdivision 2 relating to
            Transition of Terms of Office, Elections and Vacancies.
304  6-15-  Amending City Charter, §§ 3.04 and 3.05 relating to city ordinances; and §
     2010   4.08 relating the purchases and contracts.
317  5-1-   Amending City Charter §§ 2.02 and 12.02 concerning terms of office for the
     2012   Mayor and Council Members.
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting a franchise to Northern States Power Company to
                     construct, operate, repair and maintain an electric
124      12-19-1963  distribution system and transmission lines, including
                     necessary poles, pole lines, and fixtures and
                     appurtenances, for the furnishing of electric energy to
                     the city, for a period of 20 years.
                     Granting a franchise to Peoples Natural Gas Company,
28       1-6-1983    Division of InterNorth, Inc., for a period of ten years,
                     and repeals Ordinance 143.
45       4-19-1984   Granting a franchise to Northern States Power Company, for
                     a period of 20 years.
47       11-1-1984   Granting a franchise to North American Communications to
                     operate a cable communications system in the city.
55       5-2-1985    Amending Ordinance 47 adopted November 1, 1984, in its
                     entirety.
137      4-1-1992    Granting a franchise to Dakota Electric Association, for a
                     period of 12 years.
131      6-4-1992    Amending Ordinance 55, adopted May 2, 1985.
                     Granting a franchise to Peoples Natural Gas Company,
142      10-21-1993  Division of Utilicorp United Inc., for a period of 12
                     years, and supersedes Ordinance 28.
                     Extending the expiration date of the cable franchise
208      8-3-2000    agreement with Mediacom Minnesota LLC until November 10,
                     2000.
                     Granting to Dakota Electric Association a non-exclusive
345      6-7-2016    franchise to construct and operate an electric utility in
                     the city for a term of ten years.
                     Granting a franchise to Hiawatha Broadband Communications,
349      2-21-2017   Inc. for the construction, operation, and maintenance of a
                     cable communications system for a term of ten years.
                     Granting a franchise to Mediacom Minnesota LLC to
351      4-4-2017    construct, operate, and maintain a cable communications
                     system, effective until May 9, 2025.
 
TABLE IV: MORATORIUMS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
160      8-3-1995    Placing a temporary restriction on the siting of adult
                     establishments within any zoning district in the city.
178      8-18-1997   Placing a temporary restriction on the siting of adult
                     establishments within any zoning district in the city.
                     Placing a temporary restriction on the establishment of
206      6-15-2001   telecommunication antennas and transmission base sites for
                     a period 120 days.
 
TABLE V: SALE OF REAL ESTATE
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
9        7-2-1981    Authorizing the sale of the south 26 feet of the east 90
                     feet of Lot 1, Block 4, Original Plat.
20       6-17-1982   Authorizing the sale of part of Government Lot 9, in
                     Section 18, in Township 112 North, Range 17 west.
32       4-7-1983    Authorizing the sale of part of Government Lot 9, in
                     Section 18, in Township 112, Range 17.
62       10-17-1985  Authorizing the sale of part of Mill Block 1, Original
                     Plat.
65       12-19-1985  Authorizing the sale of part of Government Lot 7, Section
                     7, Township 112, Range 17.
73       8-7-1986    Authorizing the sale of three tracts in Block 36, Mill
                     Block 3, in the Original Plat.
75       11-6-1986   Authorizing the sale of parts of Lot 4 and Lot 5 in Block
                     35 of the city.
                     Authorizing the sale of Lots 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10, Block 8,
94       11-22-1988  Original Plat of the city; together with vacated portions
                     of Seventh Street and Minnesota Street adjacent thereto.
100      4-21-1989   Authorizing the sale of Lot 6, Block 7, Original Plat.
104      10-13-1989  Authorizing the sale of part of Lot 10, Block 7.
112      6-14-1990   Authorizing sale of parts of Blocks 43 and 44, Original
                     Plat.
                     Authorizing the sale of part of vacated Seventh and Water
123      2-20-1992   Streets, and unnumbered block north of Block 8, Original
                     Plat.
135      10-15-1992  Authorizing the sale of Lot 10 and part of Lot 9, Block
                     21, Original Plat.
140      9-2-1993    Authorizing the sale of part of Government Lot 5, Section
                     7, Township 112, Range 17.
154      8-18-1994   Authorizing the sale of Lots 1 and 2, Block 24, Original
                     Plat.
307      12-7-2010   Authorizing the sale of Lot 4, Block 2, North Park Drive
                     Addition.
309      2-1-2011    Authorizing the sale of Lot 2, Block 1, North Park Drive
                     Addition.
310      2-15-2011   Authorizing the sale of property located at the southwest
                     corner of Block 5, St. Clair's Terre Haute Addition.
                     Authorizing the sale of Lot 1, Block 2, North Park Drive
311      3-15-2011   Addition and Lot 2, Block 2, North Park Drive Addition,
                     except the north 107 feet thereof.
312      5-3-2011    Authorizing the sale of Lot 1, Block 1, Business Park
                     North Fifth Replat.
314      7-3-2012    Authorizing the sale of three city-owned parcels to
                     Progressive Rail, Inc.
                     Authorizing the sale of a portion Lot 6, Block 30,
323      11-20-2012  Original Plat and a portion of Lot 7, Block 30 Original
                     Plat.
329      4-16-2013   Authorizing the sale of Lot 5, Block 1, Southview Acres,
                     Goodhue County.
341      6-2-2015    Authorizing the sale of Outlot A, South Pines, Goodhue
                     County.
                     Authorizing the sale of parts of parcels 6, 9, 10, and 11,
346      9-20-2016   City of Cannon Falls Right-of-Way Map No. 2, and part of
                     the alley in Block 2, Original Plat of the city.
 
TABLE VI: ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
Res./Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Res./Ord. No. Date Passed Description
8             7-2-1981    Rezoning.
7             8-8-1981    Rezoning.
17            11-19-1981  Rezoning.
18            11-19-1981  Rezoning.
19            1-7-1982    Rezoning.
29            1-20-1983   Rezoning.
63            11-7-1985   Rezoning.
74            11-6-1986   Rezoning.
76            12-20-1986  Rezoning.
84            11-11-1987  Rezoning.
88            9-15-1988   Rezoning.
99            1-5-1989    Rezoning.
103           7-6-1989    Rezoning.
122           1-16-1982   Rezoning.
127           5-7-1982    Rezoning.
132           8-6-1982    Rezoning.
134           9-17-1982   Rezoning.
138           4-15-1983   Rezoning.
141           9-16-1983   Rezoning.
156           4-6-1985    Rezoning.
158           6-1-1985    Rezoning.
173           9-5-1986    Rezoning.
185           8-20-1988   Rezoning.
187           9-3-1988    Rezoning.
189           9-17-1988   Rezoning.
192           9-17-1988   Rezoning.
193           9-17-1988   Rezoning.
198           3-18-1989   Rezoning.
202           9-2-1989    Rezoning.
205           2-17-2000   Rezoning.
255           1-5-2006    Rezoning certain property from R-1, R-3, B-1, I-1,
                          and I-2 to R-B.
                          Approving a preliminary plat for a 51 single- family
Res. 1606     5-4-2006    residential planned unit development to be known as
                          Tanners Grove located off of State Highway 19 just
                          south of the school.
262           7-6-2006    Rezoning certain property from Agricultural Open
                          Space to R-1, R-2 and PUD.
                          Rezoning Lot 1, Block 1 and Lots 2 and 3, Block 2,
268           11-16-2006  North Park Drive Addition to planned unit
                          development.
284           6-5-2008    Rezoning certain property from UR to R-3.
285           6-5-2008    Rezoning certain property from UR to R-2.
308           1-4-2011    Rezoning certain property from R-B to I-1.
313           9-6-2011    Rezoning certain property from a PUD District to I-2.
318           6-5-2012    Rezoning certain property from UR to I-1.
324           12-4-2012   Rezoning certain property to Southeast Campus PUD.
327           4-2-2013    Rezoning certain property from R-3 to UR.
328           4-2-2013    Rezoning certain property from UR to a Southeast
                          Campus Planned Unit Development (PUD) District.
335           4-1-2014    Rezoning certain property from a Planned Unit
                          Development (PUD) District to R-2.
336           4-15-2014   Rezoning certain property from R-3 to I-1.
340           6-2-2015    Rezoning certain property from R-B to R-2.
342           - -2015     Rezoning certain property from I-1 and R-B to I-2.
347           9-20-2016   Rezoning certain properties as B-2.
354           10-3-2017   Rezoning certain property from R-B to R-4.
355           12-5-2017   Rezoning certain properties from UR to R-3.
357           1-2-2018    Rezoning certain property from UR to B-2.
361           7-17-2018   Rezoning certain property from R-B to I-1.
368           10-1-2019   Rezoning certain property from B-2 to R-3.
379           5-3-2022    Rezoning certain property from B-2 to R-4.
382           5-3-2022    Rezoning certain property from UR to B-2.
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Minnesota Rules
References to Minnesota Regulations
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Section Code Section
M.S. Section                      Code Section
10A.14                            111.090
Ch. 12                            33.065
12.25                             33.066,
                                  33.070
12.37                             33.072
14.57 to 14.69                    111.018
15.73, Subd. 3                    90.152
                                  152.036,
                                  152.037,
15.99                             152.132,
                                  152.153,
                                  152.728,
                                  152.729
18.77, Subd. 8                    97.037
18.83, Subd. 2                    97.037
18G.07                            97.002
65A.50                            34.01
Ch. 84                            75.10
84.64 through 84.65               152.152
84.81 - 84.915                    75.02
84.415                            152.789
84.871                            75.05
88.16 to 88.22                    97.070
89.001                            97.002
89.01                             97.002
89.51 through 89.64               97.002
93.44 through 93.51               152.021
Ch. 103F                          152.745
103F.201 through 103F.221         152.785
103F.301 through 103F.345         152.785,
                                  152.793
103F.373                          152.793
Ch. 103G                          152.749,
                                  152.755
103G.005                          152.021,
                                  152.791
103G.245                          152.789,
                                  152.790
103G.291                          52.13
Ch. 104                           151.109
Ch. 105                           151.109
Ch. 106                           151.109
Ch. 106A                          151.109
115.01, Subd. 8                   53.02
115.07                            53.02
Ch. 116                           152.190
144.651                           119.04
Ch. 144A.01                       152.021
Ch. 152                           96.02
152.02                            99.02
157.15, Subd. 9                   121.01
160.22                            97.002
Ch. 168                           33.001,
                                  71.01
168.021                           152.257
Ch. 16B.59 to 16B.75              150.001
168B.011, Subd. 3                 97.020
                                  33.001,
                                  71.01,
Ch. 169                           75.02,
                                  75.10,
                                  97.086
169.999                           10.98
Ch. 171                           71.01
211B.045                          152.353
Ch. 216D                          90.155,
                                  90.165
216B.02, Subd. 4                  90.152
216B.02, Subd. 6                  90.152
216D.01 - 216D.09                 90.165,
                                  90.174
216D.04, Subd. 3                  90.152
216E.10                           152.789
221.81                            150.031
237.16                            90.150
                                  90.150,
237.162                           90.152,
                                  90.167
237.162, Subd. 4                  90.152
                                  90.150,
237.163                           90.152,
                                  90.167
237.163, Subd. 2(b)               90.151
237.163, Subd. 6                  90.179
237.79                            90.150
237.81                            90.150
Ch. 238                           90.152
238.086                           90.150
245A.02, Subd. 4                  152.021
245A.02, Subd. 10                 152.021
245A.02, Subd. 14                 152.021
254B                              152.021
260B.198                          131.08
299F.011                          95.01
302A.155                          90.156
Ch. 308A                          90.152
Ch. 317A                          152.021
326B.101 to 326B.194              150.001
326B.121                          150.001
326B.133                          150.001
326B.148                          150.001
326B.845                          150.001
Ch. 327                           152.021
Ch. 329                           114.03
340.28                            111.083
340A.301, Subd. 6(c), (I), or (j) 111.001
340A-408, Subd. 3                 110.09
340A.503, Subd. 1(a)(1)           111.211
Ch. 340A.503, Subd. 6             113.09
                                  111.068,
340A.504, Subd. 7                 111.082,
                                  111.086
340A.801                          111.048
346.47                            94.06
347.515                           94.32
347.54                            94.32
364.06                            33.085
Ch. 375                           99.01
383C.425                          91.02
Ch. 429                           90.172,
                                  152.043
429.011                           90.065
                                  97.001,
429.061                           97.002,
                                  97.024
                                  97.001,
429.101                           97.002,
                                  97.024,
                                  97.043
437.02                            114.03
444.075                           54.01
444.075, Subd. 3                  54.03
Ch. 453                           90.152
Ch. 453A                          90.152
Ch. 462                           90.172,
                                  152.745
462.351 to 462.363                152.007
Ch. 462.357                       152.021
462.357(6)                        152.036
462.358, Subd. 4b(b)(5),(6)       151.031
462.359(4)                        152.036
Ch. 462.358                       151.004
463.15 through 463.26             97.001
463.17                            97.023
Ch. 505                           151.011
505.03                            151.090
514.67                            97.001
515.01 through 515.29             152.021
515A.1-106                        152.548,
                                  152.569
Ch. 515B                          152.021,
                                  152.152
515B.2-121(h)(1)                  151.011
609.321                           120.04
609.322                           120.04
609.322, Subd. 1.(3)              120.04
609.324                           120.04
609.341, Subd. 11(b)              120.09
609.342                           120.04
609.343                           120.04
609.344                           120.04
609.345                           120.04
609.365                           120.04
609.685                           113.07
617.23                            120.04
617.241                           120.04,
                                  152.021
617.246                           120.04
617.247                           120.04
617.293                           120.04
617.294                           120.04
626.862                           10.20
                                  
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA RULES
Minn. Rules Code Section
Minn. Rules                       Code Section
1505.0730                         97.037
1505.0732                         97.037
1505.0750                         97.037
4100                              151.076
4410                              151.063
6100.5700, subpart 2, item B      75.05
Chapter 6100.5700, subpart 5      75.05
parts 6105.0010 through 6105.0250 152.785
part 6105.0110                    152.793
part 6105.0170                    152.789
part 6105.0180                    152.789
part 6105.0190                    152.789
part 6105.0200                    152.789
part 6105.0230, subpart 2         152.793
6105.1550 through 6105.1700       152.785,
                                  152.793
part 6105.1610                    152.787
part 6105.1670                    152.787
part 6105.1680                    152.787
parts 6120.2500 through 6120.3900 152.785
Chapter 7030                      97.018
Chapter 7080                      150.001,
                                  152.789
Chapter 7511                      95.01
Chapter 7560                      90.165,
                                  90.167
7560.0150, subpart 2              90.172
7819.0050 to 7819.9950            90.150
7819.1000, subpart 3              90.158
                                  90.152,
7819.1100                         90.162,
                                  90.167
7819.1250                         90.177
7819.1300                         90.168
7819.3000                         90.162
7819.3100                         90.173
7819.3200                         90.176
7819.4000                         90.172
7819.4100                         90.172
7819.5000                         90.167,
                                  90.173
7819.5100                         90.173
8420.0100 et seq.                 152.184
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA REGULATIONS
 
Minn. Regulations           Code Section
APC 1-15                    152.648,
                            152.668
6120.5000 through 6120.6200 152.751
NCP 7030                    152.191
APC 7011                    152.189
APC 7017                    152.188
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2011 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2011 Code Section
1.02               10.05
1.03               10.99
1.05               10.06
1.06               10.21
1.07               10.02
1.09               10.99
1.11               10.02
2.01               30.01
2.02               30.02
2.03               30.03
2.04               30.04
2.05               30.05
2.06               30.06
2.07               30.07
2.08               30.08
2.09               30.09
2.10               30.10
2.11               30.11
2.12               30.12
2.13               30.13
2.14, Subd. 1      33.065
2.14, Subd. 2      33.068
2.14, Subd. 3      33.069
2.20               31.01
2.21               31.02
2.22               31.03
2.24               31.05
2.25               31.06
2.26, Subd. 1      31.20
2.26, Subd. 2      31.21
2.27               31.35
2.40               32.001
2.42, Subd. 1      32.015
2.42, Subd. 2      32.016
2.42, Subd. 3      32.017
2.42, Subd. 4      32.018
2.43               32.030
2.44, Subd. 1      32.045
2.44, Subd. 2      32.046
2.45               32.060
2.46, Subd. 1      32.075
2.46, Subd. 2      32.076
2.46, Subd. 3      32.077
2.60, Subd. 1A     33.001
2.60, Subd. 1B     33.002
2.60, Subd. 1C     33.003
2.60, Subd. 1D     33.004
2.60, Subd. 1E     33.005
2.60, Subd. 1F     33.006
2.60, Subd. 1G     33.007
2.60, Subd. 1H     33.008
2.60, Subd. 1I     33.009
2.60, Subd. 2A     33.020
2.60, Subd. 2B     33.021
2.60, Subd. 2C     33.022
2.60, Subd. 2D     33.023
2.60, Subd. 3A     33.035
2.60, Subd. 3B     33.036
2.60, Subd. 3C     33.037
2.60, Subd. 3D     33.038
2.60, Subd. 3E     33.039
2.60, Subd. 4      33.050
2.64               34.01
2.65               33.085
3.01               50.01
3.02               50.02
3.03               50.03
3.04               50.04
3.05, Subd. 1      51.01
3.05, Subd. 2      51.02
3.05, Subd. 3      51.03
3.05, Subd. 4      51.04
3.05, Subd. 5      51.05
3.05, Subd. 6      51.06
3.05, Subd. 7      51.07
3.05, Subd. 8      51.08
3.05, Subd. 9      51.09
3.05, Subd. 10     51.10
3.05, Subd. 11     51.11
3.06               51.12
3.07               51.13
3.08               51.14
3.10, Subd. 1      52.01
3.10, Subd. 2      52.02
3.10, Subd. 3      52.03
3.10, Subd. 4      52.04
3.10, Subd. 5      52.05
3.10, Subd. 6      52.06
3.10, Subd. 7      52.07
3.10, Subd. 8      52.08
3.10, Subd. 9      52.09
3.10, Subd. 10     52.10
3.20, Subd. 1      53.01
3.20, Subd. 2      53.02
3.20, Subd. 3A     53.15
3.20, Subd. 3B     53.16
3.20, Subd. 3C     53.17
3.20, Subd. 3D     53.18
3.20, Subd. 3E     53.19
3.20, Subd. 3F     53.20
3.20, Subd. 3G     53.21
3.20, Subd. 3H     53.22
3.20, Subd. 4A     53.35
3.20, Subd. 4B     53.36
3.20, Subd. 4C     53.37
3.20, Subd. 4D     53.38
3.20, Subd. 4E     53.39
3.20, Subd. 4F     53.40
3.20, Subd. 5      53.41
3.21, Subd. 1      55.01
3.21, Subd. 2      55.02
3.21, Subd. 3      55.03
3.21, Subd. 4      55.04
3.21, Subd. 5      55.05
3.21, Subd. 6      55.06
3.21, Subd. 7      55.07
3.21, Subd. 8      55.08
4.01               150.001
4.03               150.002
4.04               150.003
4.05               150.004
4.06, Subd. 1      150.015
4.06, Subd. 2      150.016
4.06, Subd. 3      150.017
4.10, Subd. 1      150.030
4.10, Subd. 2      150.031
4.10, Subd. 2A     150.032
4.10, Subd. 3      150.033
4.10, Subd. 4      150.034
4.10, Subd. 5      150.035
4.10, Subd. 6      150.036
4.12, Subd. 1      150.050
4.12, Subd. 2      150.051
4.12, Subd. 3      150.052
4.20, Subd. 1      150.065
4.20, Subd. 2      150.066
4.20, Subd. 3      150.067
4.20, Subd. 4      150.068
4.20, Subd. 5      150.069
4.20, Subd. 6      150.070
4.30, Subd. 1      150.085
4.30, Subd. 2      150.086
4.30, Subd. 3      150.087
4.30, Subd. 4      150.088
4.30, Subd. 5      150.089
4.31               150.100
5.01               111.001
5.02, Subd. 1      111.015
5.02, Subd. 2      111.016
5.02, Subd. 3      111.017
5.02, Subd. 4      111.018
5.02, Subd. 5      111.019
5.02, Subd. 6      111.020
5.02, Subd. 7      111.021
5.03               111.035
5.04               111.036
5.05               111.037
5.06               111.038
5.07               111.039
5.08               111.040
5.09               111.041
5.10               111.042
5.11               111.043
5.12               111.044
5.13               111.045
5.14               111.046
5.16               111.047
5.17               111.048
5.18, Subd. 1      111.175
5.18, Subd. 2      111.176
5.18, Subd. 3      111.177
5.18, Subd. 4      111.178
5.18, Subd. 5      111.179
5.18, Subd. 6      111.180
5.19               111.049
5.19.1             111.050
5.20               111.065
5.22               111.066
5.23               111.067
5.24               111.068
5.26               111.069
5.27               111.070
5.40               111.085
5.41               111.086
5.43               111.087
5.44               111.088
5.45               111.089
5.46               111.090
5.47               111.080
5.60, Subd. 1      111.105
5.60, Subd. 3      111.106
5.60, Subd. 4      111.107
5.70, Subd. 1      111.120
5.70, Subd. 4      111.121
5.80, Subd. 1      111.135
5.80, Subd. 3      111.136
5.80, Subd. 4      111.137
5.80, Subd. 5      111.138
5.80, Subd. 6      111.139
5.80, Subd. 7      111.140
5.80, Subd. 8      111.141
5.82               111.143
5.83               111.144
5.90, Subd. 1      111.195
5.90, Subd. 2      111.196
6.01               110.01
6.02               110.01
6.03               110.03
6.04               110.04
6.05               110.05
6.06               110.06
6.07               110.07
6.08               110.08
6.09               110.09
6.10               110.10
6.20, Subd. 1      112.01
6.20, Subd. 6      112.02
6.20, Subd. 7      112.03
6.20, Subd. 8      112.04
6.20, Subd. 9      112.05
6.20, Subd. 10     112.06
6.20, Subd. 11     112.07
6.20, Subd. 12     112.08
6.20, Subd. 13     112.09
6.21, Subd. 1      112.25
6.21, Subd. 2      112.26
6.21, Subd. 3      112.27
6.21, Subd. 4      112.28
6.21, Subd. 5      112.29
6.22, Subd. 1      112.40
6.22, Subd. 2      112.41
6.23, Subd. 1      113.01
6.23, Subd. 2      113.02
6.23, Subd. 3      113.03
6.23, Subd. 4      113.04
6.23, Subd. 5      113.05
6.23, Subd. 6      113.06
6.23, Subd. 7      113.07
6.23, Subd. 8      113.08
6.23, Subd. 9      113.09
6.27, Subd. 1      115.01
6.27, Subd. 2      115.02
6.27, Subd. 3      115.03
6.27, Subd. 4      115.04
6.28, Subd. 1      116.01
6.28, Subd. 2      116.02
6.28, Subd. 3      116.03
6.28, Subd. 4      116.04
6.29, Subd. 1      117.01
6.29, Subd. 2      117.02
6.29, Subd. 3      117.03
6.29, Subd. 4      117.04
6.29, Subd. 5      117.05
6.29, Subd. 6      117.06
6.29, Subd. 7      117.07
6.29, Subd. 8      117.08
6.40, Subd. 1      118.01
6.40, Subd. 2      118.02
6.40, Subd. 3      118.03
6.40, Subd. 4      118.04
6.40, Subd. 5      118.05
6.40, Subd. 6      118.06
6.40, Subd. 7      118.07
6.40, Subd. 8      118.08
6.40, Subd. 9      118.09
6.41, Subd. 1      119.01
6.41, Subd. 2      119.02
6.41, Subd. 3      119.03
6.41, Subd. 4      119.04
6.41, Subd. 5      119.05
6.42, Subd. 1      120.01
6.42, Subd. 2      120.02
6.42, Subd. 3      120.03
6.42, Subd. 4      120.04
6.42, Subd. 5      120.05
6.42, Subd. 6      120.06
6.42, Subd. 7      120.07
6.42, Subd. 8      120.08
6.42, Subd. 9      120.09
6.42, Subd. 10     120.10
6.42, Subd. 11     120.11
6.42, Subd. 12     120.12
6.42, Subd. 13     120.13
6.42, Subd. 14     120.14
6.42, Subd. 15     120.15
6.42, Subd. 16     120.16
6.42, Subd. 17     120.17
6.42, Subd. 18     120.18
6.42, Subd. 19     120.19
7.01               70.01
7.02               70.02
7.03               70.03
7.04, Subd. 1      90.015
7.04, Subd. 2      90.016
7.04, Subd. 3      90.017
7.04, Subd. 4      90.018
7.05, Subd. 1      90.030
7.05, Subd. 2      90.031
7.05, Subd. 3      90.032
7.06, Subd. 1      90.045
7.06, Subd. 2      90.046
7.06, Subd. 3      90.047
7.06, Subd. 4      90.048
7.06, Subd. 5      90.049
7.06, Subd. 6      90.050
7.06, Subd. 7      90.051
7.07, Subd. 1      90.065
7.07, Subd. 2      90.066
7.07, Subd. 3      90.067
7.07, Subd. 4      90.068
7.09, Subd. 2      90.095
7.09, Subd. 3      90.096
7.09, Subd. 4      90.097
7.09, Subd. 5      90.098
7.09, Subd. 6      90.099
7.10, Subd. 1      90.115
7.10, Subd. 2      90.116
7.10, Subd. 3      90.117
7.20, Subd. 1      73.01
7.20, Subd. 2      73.02
7.21               70.04
7.22               90.001
8.01               71.01
8.02               71.02
8.03               71.03
8.04, Subd. 1      71.15
8.04, Subd. 2      71.16
8.09, Subd. 1      74.01
8.09, Subd. 2      74.02
8.10, Subd. 1      73.03
8.10, Subd. 2      73.04
8.10, Subd. 3      73.05
8.10, Subd. 4      73.06
8.10, Subd. 5      73.07
8.10, Subd. 6      73.08
8.11, Subd. 1      75.01
8.11, Subd. 2      75.02
8.11, Subd. 3      75.03
8.11, Subd. 4      75.04
8.11, Subd. 5      75.05
8.11, Subd. 6      75.06
8.11, Subd. 7      75.07
8.11, Subd. 8      75.08
8.11, Subd. 9      75.09
8.11, Subd. 10     75.10
8.11, Subd. 11     75.11
8.20, Subd. 1      91.01
8.20, Subd. 2      91.02
8.20, Subd. 3      91.03
8.20, Subd. 4      91.04
9.01               72.01
9.02               72.02
9.03               72.03
9.04               72.04
9.05               72.05
9.06               72.06
9.07               72.07
9.08               72.08
9.09               72.09
9.09, Subd. 4      Ch. 76, Sch. I
9.10               72.10
9.20               72.11
9.21               72.12
9.22               72.13
9.23               72.14
9.24               72.15
9.25               72.16
10.01, Subd. 1     92.01
10.01, Subd. 2     92.02
10.01, Subd. 3     92.03
10.01, Subd. 4     92.04
10.03, Subd. 1     92.15
10.03, Subd. 2     92.16
10.10, Subd. 1     93.01
10.10, Subd. 2     93.02
10.10, Subd. 3     93.03
10.10, Subd. 4     93.04
10.10, Subd. 5     93.05
10.10, Subd. 6     93.06
10.10, Subd. 7     93.07
10.10, Subd. 8     93.08
10.11, Subd. 2     94.02
10.11, Subd. 5     94.05
10.11, Subd. 6     94.06
10.11, Subd. 7     94.07
10.11, Subd. 8     94.08
10.11, Subd. 9     94.09
10.11, Subd. 10    94.10
10.12, Subd. 1     94.25
10.12, Subd. 2     94.26
10.12, Subd. 3     94.27
10.12, Subd. 4     94.28
10.12, Subd. 5     94.29
10.12, Subd. 6     94.30
10.20              130.01
10.21              130.02
10.22              130.03
10.24, Subd. 1     132.01
10.24, Subd. 2     132.02
10.24, Subd. 3     132.03
10.24, Subd. 4     132.04
10.25, Subd. 1     133.01
10.25, Subd. 2     133.02
10.25, Subd. 3     133.03
10.25, Subd. 4     133.04
10.25, Subd. 5     133.05
10.26, Subd. 1     91.15
10.27, Subd. 1     95.15
10.27, Subd. 2     95.16
10.27, Subd. 3     95.17
10.27, Subd. 4     95.18
10.31, Subd. 2     95.02
10.33, Subd. 1     96.01
10.33, Subd. 2     96.02
10.33, Subd. 3     96.03
10.33, Subd. 4     96.04
10.33, Subd. 5     96.05
10.33, Subd. 6     96.06
10.33, Subd. 7     96.07
10.33, Subd. 8     96.08
10.33, Subd. 9     96.09
10.33, Subd. 10    96.10
10.33, Subd. 11    96.11
10.33, Subd. 12    96.12
10.33, Subd. 13    96.13
10.33, Subd. 14    96.14
10.33, Subd. 15    96.15
10.33, Subd. 16    96.16
10.33, Subd. 17    96.17
10.33, Subd. 18    96.18
10.33, Subd. 19    96.19
10.33, Subd. 20    96.20
10.33, Subd. 21    96.21
10.33, Subd. 22    96.22
10.33, Subd. 23    96.23
10.33, Subd. 24    96.24
10.33, Subd. 25    96.25
10.33, Subd. 26    96.26
10.33, Subd. 27    96.27
10.33, Subd. 28    96.28
10.33, Subd. 29    96.29
10.34              97.085
10.35              97.086
10.36              97.087
10.39              97.088
10.40              97.089
10.41              97.090
10.42, Subd. 1     98.01
10.42, Subd. 2     98.02
10.43              95.30
10.44, Subd. 1     99.01
10.44, Subd. 2     99.02
10.44, Subd. 3     99.03
10.44, Subd. 4     99.04
10.44, Subd. 5     99.05
10.44, Subd. 6     99.06
10.44, Subd. 7     99.07
10.44, Subd. 8     99.08
10.44, Subd. 9     99.09
10.44, Subd. 10    99.10
10.44, Subd. 11    99.11
11-1-1             152.001
11-1-2             152.002
11-1-3             152.003
11-1-4             152.004
11-1-5             152.005
11-1-6             152.006
11-1-7             152.007
11-1-8             152.008
11-2-1             152.020
11-2-2             152.021
11-3-1             152.035
11-3-2             152.036
11-3-3             152.037
11-3-4             152.038
11-3-5             152.039
11-3-6             152.040
11-3-7             152.041
11-3-8             152.042
11-3-9             152.043
11-4-1             152.055
11-4-2             152.056
11-4-3             152.057
11-4-4             152.058
11-5-1             152.070
11-5-2             152.071
11-5-3             152.072
11-5-4             152.073
11-5-5             152.074
11-6-1             152.085
11-6-2             152.086
11-6-3             152.087
11-6-4             152.088
11-6-5             152.089
11-7-1             152.100
11-7-2             152.101
11-7-3             152.102
11-7-4             152.103
11-8-1             152.115
11-8-2             152.116
11-8-3             152.117
11-8-4             152.118
11-9-1             152.130
11-9-2             152.131
11-9-3             152.132
11-9-4             152.133
11-9-5             152.134
11-9-6             152.135
11-9-7             152.136
11-9-8             152.137
11-9-9             152.138
11-10-1            152.150
11-10-2            152.151
11-10-3            152.152
11-10-4            152.153
11-15-1            152.165
11-15-2            152.166
11-15-3            152.167
11-15-4            152.168
11-15-5            152.169
11-16-1            152.180
11-16-2            152.181
11-16-3            152.182
11-16-4            152.183
11-16-5            152.184
11-16-6            152.185
11-16-7            152.186
11-16-8            152.187
11-16-9            152.188
11-16-10           152.189
11-16-11           152.190
11-16-12           152.191
11-16-13           152.192
11-16-14           152.193
11-16-15           152.194
11-17-1            152.205
11-17-2            152.206
11-17-3            152.207
11-17-4            152.208
11-17-5            152.209
11-17-6            152.210
11-17-7            152.211
11-17-8            152.212
11-17-9            152.213
11-17-10           152.214
11-17-11           152.215
11-17-12           152.216
11-18-1            152.230
11-18-2            152.231
11-18-3            152.232
11-18-4            152.233
11-18-5            152.234
11-18-6            152.235
11-18-7            152.236
11-18-8            152.237
11-18-9            152.238
11-18-10           152.239
11-18-11           152.240
11-18-12           152.241
11-19-1            152.255
11-19-2            152.256
11-19-3            152.257
11-19-4            152.258
11-19-5            152.259
11-19-6            152.260
11-19-7            152.261
11-19-8            152.262
11-19-9            152.263
11-19-10           152.264
11-20-1            152.275
11-20-2            152.276
11-20-3            152.277
11-20-4            152.278
11-20-5            152.279
11-20-6            152.280
11-20-7            152.281
11-21-1            152.295
11-21-2            152.296
11-21-3            152.297
11-21-4            152.298
11-21-5            152.299
11-21-6            152.300
11-22-1            152.315
11-22-2            152.316
11-22-4            152.318
11-22-5            152.319
11-23-1            152.330
11-23-2            152.331
11-23-3            152.332
11-23-4            152.333
11-23-5            152.334
11-23-6            152.335
11-23-7            152.336
11-23-8            152.337
11-24-1            152.350
11-24-2            152.351
11-24-3            152.352
11-24-4            152.353
11-24-5            152.354
11-24-6            152.355
11-24-7            152.356
11-24-8            152.357
11-24-9            152.358
11-24-10           152.359
11-25-1            152.370
11-25-2            152.371
11-25-3            152.372
11-26-1            152.385
11-26-2            152.386
11-26-3            152.387
11-26-4            152.388
11-26-5            152.389
11-27-1            152.400
11-27-2            152.401
11-27-3            152.402
11-27-4            152.403
11-28-1            152.415
11-28-2            152.416
11-30-1            152.430
11-30-2            152.431
11-30-3            152.432
11-50-1            152.445
11-50-2            152.446
11-50-3            152.447
11-50-4            152.448
11-51-1            152.460
11-51-2            152.461
11-51-3            152.462
11-51-4            152.463
11-51-5            152.464
11-51-6            152.465
11-51-7            152.466
11-51-8            152.467
11-52-1            152.480
11-52-2            152.481
11-52-3            152.482
11-52-4            152.483
11-52-5            152.484
11-52-6            152.485
11-52-7            152.486
11-52-8            152.487
11-53-1            152.500
11-53-2            152.501
11-53-3            152.502
11-53-4            152.503
11-53-5            152.504
11-53-6            152.505
11-53-7            152.506
11-53-8            152.507
11-54-1            152.520
11-54-2            152.521
11-54-3            152.522
11-54-4            152.523
11-54-5            152.524
11-54-6            152.525
11-54-7            152.526
11-54-8            152.527
11-55-1            152.540
11-55-2            152.541
11-55-3            152.542
11-55-4            152.543
11-55-5            152.544
11-55-6            152.545
11-55-7            152.546
11-55-8            152.547
11-55-9            152.548
11-55-10           152.549
11-56-1            152.560
11-56-2            152.561
11-56-3            152.562
11-56-4            152.563
11-56-5            152.564
11-56-6            152.565
11-56-7            152.566
11-56-8            152.567
11-56-9            152.568
11-56-10           152.569
11-56-11           152.570
11-57-1            152.585
11-57-2            152.586
11-57-3            152.587
11-57-4            152.588
11-57-5            152.589
11-57-6            152.590
11-58-1            152.605
11-58-2            152.606
11-58-3            152.607
11-58-4            152.608
11-58-5            152.609
11-58-6            152.610
11-58-7            152.611
11-58-8            152.612
11-60-1            152.625
11-60-2            152.626
11-60-3            152.627
11-60-4            152.628
11-60-5            152.629
11-60-6            152.630
11-60-7            152.631
11-60-8            152.632
11-61-1            152.645
11-61-2            152.646
11-61-3            152.647
11-61-4            152.648
11-61-5            152.649
11-61-6            152.650
11-61-7            152.651
11-61-8            152.652
11-61-9            152.653
11-70-1            152.665
11-70-2            152.666
11-70-3            152.667
11-70-4            152.668
11-70-5            152.669
11-70-6            152.670
11-70-7            152.671
11-70-8            152.672
11-71-1            152.685
11-71-2            152.686
11-71-3            152.687
11-71-4            152.688
11-71-5            152.689
11-71-6            152.690
11-71-7            152.691
11-71-8            152.692
11-75-1            152.705
11-75-2            152.706
11-75-3            152.707
11-76-1            152.720
11-76-2            152.721
11-76-3            152.722
11-76-4            152.723
11-76-5            152.724
11-76-6            152.725
11-76-7            152.726
11-76-8            152.727
11-76-9            152.728
11-76-10           152.729
11-76-11           152.730
11-80-1            152.746
11-80-2            152.747
11-80-3            152.748
11-80-4            152.749
11-80-5            152.750
11-80-6            152.752
11-80-7            152.753
11-80-8            152.754
11-81-1            152.770
11-81-2            152.771
11-81-3            152.772
11-81-4            152.773
11-81-5            152.774
11-82-1            152.785
11-82-2            152.786
11-82-3            152.787
11-82-4            152.788
11-82-5            152.789
11-82-6            152.790
11-82-7            152.791
11-82-8            152.792
11-82-9            152.793
11-82-10           152.794
11-82-11           152.795
11-83-1            152.810
11-83-2            152.811
11-83-3            152.812
11-83-4            152.813
11-83-5            152.814
12-1-1             151.001
12-1-2             151.002
12-1-3             151.003
12-1-4             151.004
12-1-5             151.005
12-1-6             151.006
12-1-7             151.007
12-1-8             151.008
12-1-9             151.009
12-1-11            151.010
12-1-12            151.011
12-2-1             151.025
12-2-2             151.026
12-2-3             151.027
12-2-4             151.028
12-2-5             151.029
12-2-6             151.030
12-2-7             151.031
12-2-8             151.032
12-3               151.045
12-3-1             151.046
12-3-2             151.047
12-3-3             151.048
12-3-4             151.049
12-4               151.060
12-4-1             151.061
12-4-2             151.062
12-4-3             151.063
12-5               151.075
12-5-1             151.076
12-5-2             151.077
12-6-1             151.090
12-6-2             151.091
12-6-3             151.092
12-6-4             151.093
12-6-5             151.094
12-7-1             151.105
12-7-2             151.106
12-7-3             151.107
12-7-4             151.108
12-7-5             151.109
12-7-6             151.110
12-7-7             151.111
12-7-8             151.112
12-7-9             151.113
12-7-10            151.114
12-7-11            151.115
12-7-12            151.116
12-8-1             151.130
12-9-1             151.145
12-9-2             151.146
12-9-3             151.147
12-9-4             151.148
12-9-5             151.149
12-9-6             151.150
12-9-7             151.151
12-9-8             151.152
12-10-1            151.165
12-11-1            151.180
12-11-3            151.181
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Effective/Passed Code Section
1606     5-4-2006              T.S.O. VI
1892     1-4-2011              110.09
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Effective/ Code Section
         Passed
Ord. No. Date Effective/ Code Section
         Passed
123      12-5-1963       T.S.O. I
124      12-19-1963      T.S.O. III
154      8-5-1976        T.S.O. I
8        7-2-1981        T.S.O. VI
9        7-2-1981        T.S.O. V
                         111.001,
                         111.018,
                         111.041,
6        7-3-1981        111.042,
                         111.046,
                         111.088,
                         111.196
                         92.02,
16       7-17-1981       92.03,
                         97.087,
                         97.088
7        8-8-1981        T.S.O. VI
17       11-19-1981      T.S.O. VI
18       11-19-1981      T.S.O. VI
19       1-7-1982        T.S.O. VI
122      1-16-1982       T.S.O. VI
127      5-7-1982        T.S.O. VI
20       6-17-1982       T.S.O. V
132      8-6-1982        T.S.O. VI
134      9-17-1982       T.S.O. VI
23       12-10-1982      31.02
24       12-10-1982      150.004
25       12-10-1982      111.035,
                         111.088
26       12-10-1982      115.01,
                         115.04
28       1-6-1983        T.S.O. III
29       1-20-1983       T.S.O. VI
30       3-18-1983       119.02
32       4-7-1983        T.S.O. V
138      4-15-1983       T.S.O. VI
33       7-22-1983       31.01
34       8-18-1983       T.S.O. I
141      9-16-1983       T.S.O. VI
39       12-23-1983      111.048
40       12-23-1983      110.10
42       12-23-1983      72.16
43       12-23-1983      97.087
44       3-15-1984       T.S.O. II
45       4-19-1984       T.S.O. III
47       11-1-1984       T.S.O. III
49       1-4-1985        52.02
50       1-4-1985        111.135
                         112.09,
51       1-4-1985        116.01 -
                         116.04
52       1-4-1985        71.16
53       1-4-1985        94.02,
                         97.088
156      4-6-1985        T.S.O. VI
55       5-2-1985        T.S.O. III
158      6-1-1985        T.S.O. VI
56       6-28-1985       50.02
60       8-23-1985       96.29
61       9-5-1985        T.S.O. I
62       10-17-1985      T.S.O. V
63       11-7-1985       T.S.O. VI
65       12-19-1985      T.S.O. V
64       1-3-1986        111.089
66       1-17-1986       99.09
66       1-17-1986       99.11
                         111.001,
68       1-24-1986       111.066,
                         111.177,
                         111.179
70       1-31-1986       93.01
72       7-4-1986        96.03
73       8-7-1986        T.S.O. V
173      9-5-1986        T.S.O. VI
74       11-6-1986       T.S.O. VI
75       11-6-1986       T.S.O. V
76       12-20-1986      T.S.O. VI
                         111.067,
80       4-3-1987        111.139,
                         111.143
84       11-11-1987      T.S.O. VI
87       6-10-1988       111.087
185      8-20-1988       T.S.O. VI
187      9-3-1988        T.S.O. VI
88       9-15-1988       T.S.O. VI
189      9-17-1988       T.S.O. VI
192      9-17-1988       T.S.O. VI
193      9-17-1988       T.S.O. VI
93       10-14-1988      92.04
94       11-22-1988      T.S.O. V
95       12-23-1988      72.09
99       1-5-1989        T.S.O. VI
198      3-18-1989       T.S.O. VI
100      4-21-1989       T.S.O. V
101      5-19-1989       111.017,
                         111.089
103      7-6-1989        T.S.O. VI
102      7-14-1989       74.01,
                         74.02
202      9-2-1989        T.S.O. VI
104      10-13-1989      T.S.O. V
                         111.043,
107      1-5-1990        111.049,
                         111.085
108      1-5-1990        112.28,
                         115.02
110      1-5-1990        92.02,
                         94.09
112      6-14-1990       T.S.O. V
124      3-13-1991       99.10
114      4-12-1991       32.015
116      7-18-1991       150.031 -
                         150.036
117      9-13-1991       150.031,
                         150.033
118      9-27-1991       55.01 -
                         55.08
119      12-19-1991      T.S.O. II
123      2-20-1992       T.S.O. V
137      4-1-1992        T.S.O. III
131      6-4-1992        T.S.O. III
                         111.050,
128      6-5-1992        111.121,
                         111.144,
                         111.178
129      6-5-1992        117.01 -
                         117.08
135      10-15-1992      T.S.O. V
140      9-2-1993        T.S.O. V
142      10-21-1993      T.S.O. III
143      1-14-1994       111.047
144      1-14-1994       111.089
147      7-1-1994        30.03,
                         32.077
148      7-1-1994        111.180
                         90.045 -
149      7-1-1994        90.051,
                         90.066
154      8-18-1994       T.S.O. V
160      8-3-1995        T.S.O. IV
161      9-1-1995        132.01 -
                         132.04
163      11-2-1995       T.S.O. II
                         33.003,
164      12-29-1995      33.023,
                         34.01
165      12-29-1995      51.08
                         111.001,
                         111.021,
167      12-29-1995      111.037,
                         111.080,
                         111.090
172      3-22-1996       51.13
175      6-20-1997       50.01,
                         51.11
178      8-18-1997       T.S.O. IV
179      12-12-1997      31.35
180      2-20-1998       33.004,
                         33.069
181      2-20-1998       111.047,
                         111.090
182      2-20-1998       71.01
                         110.01,
188      10-2-1998       120.01 -
                         120.19
195      11-27-1998      133.01 -
                         133.05
197      12-4-1998       111.089
191      1-2-1999        30.11
200      5-21-1999       113.01 -
                         113.09
201      5-28-1999       119.03
203      10-15-1999      51.01,
                         51.08
194      11-27-1999      111.018
205      2-17-2000       T.S.O. VI
204      2-25-2000       51.14
208      8-3-2000        T.S.O. III
209      10-20-2000      150.015 -
                         150.017
210      10-20-2000      111.041
207      10-27-2000      92.15,
                         92.16
213      3-30-2001       72.15
212      4-27-2001       150.050 -
                         150.052
206      6-15-2001       T.S.O. IV
214      9-27-2001       111.001
217      6-13-2002       118.04
222      12-12-2002      72.09
229      11-27-2003      118.04
240      7-8-2004        111.001
249      5-19-2005       111.068,
                         111.086
250      6-2-2005        112.26,
                         112.29
255      1-5-2006        T.S.O. VI
                         152.001 -
                         152.008,
                         152.020,
                         152.021,
                         152.035 -
                         152.043,
                         152.055 -
                         152.058,
                         152.070 -
                         152.074,
                         152.085 -
                         152.089,
                         152.100 -
                         152.103,
                         152.115 -
                         152.118,
                         152.130 -
                         152.138,
                         152.150 -
                         152.153,
                         152.165 -
                         152.169,
                         152.180 -
                         152.194,
                         152.205 -
                         152.216,
                         152.230 -
                         152.241,
                         152.255 -
                         152.264,
                         152.275 -
                         152.281,
                         152.295 -
                         152.300,
                         152.315,
                         152.316,
                         152.318,
                         152.319,
                         152.330 -
                         152.337,
                         152.350 -
                         152.359,
                         152.370 -
                         152.372,
                         152.385 -
258      5-4-2006        152.389,
                         152.400 -
                         152.403,
                         152.415,
                         152.416,
                         152.430 -
                         152.432,
                         152.445 -
                         152.448,
                         152.460 -
                         152.467,
                         152.480 -
                         152.487,
                         152.500 -
                         152.507,
                         152.520 -
                         152.527,
                         152.540 -
                         152.549,
                         152.560 -
                         152.570,
                         152.585 -
                         152.590,
                         152.605 -
                         152.612,
                         152.625 -
                         152.632,
                         152.645 -
                         152.653,
                         152.665 -
                         152.672,
                         152.685 -
                         152.692,
                         152.705 -
                         152.707,
                         152.720 -
                         152.730,
                         152.746 -
                         152.750,
                         152.752 -
                         152.754,
                         152.770 -
                         152.774,
                         152.785 -
                         152.795,
                         152.810 -
                         152.814
                         151.001 -
                         151.011,
                         151.025 -
                         151.032,
                         151.045 -
                         151.049,
                         151.060 -
                         151.063,
                         151.075 -
259      5-4-2006        151.077,
                         151.090 -
                         151.094,
                         151.105 -
                         151.116,
                         151.130,
                         151.145 -
                         151.152,
                         151.165,
                         151.180,
                         151.181
262      7-6-2006        T.S.O. VI
264      8-17-2006       51.13
266      9-7-2006        91.16
267      10-19-2006      152.672,
                         152.692
268      11-16-2006      T.S.O. VI
269      1-4-2007        150.115 -
                         150.119
270      3-15-2007       152.213
                         152.237,
271      3-15-2007       152.526,
                         152.546,
                         152.561
272      3-15-2007       151.011
275      8-2-2007        150.001
278      3-19-2008       152.628,
                         152.630
279      4-3-2008        152.606
280      6-5-2008        51.14,
                         52.05
281      6-5-2008        95.45 -
                         95.53
282      6-5-2008        111.089
283      6-5-2008        111.160 -
                         111.162
284      6-5-2008        T.S.O. VI
285      6-5-2008        T.S.O. VI
291      5-7-2009        54.01 -
                         54.06
296      9-17-2009       152.745 -
                         152.758
298      11-5-2009       30.02
300      12-17-2009      111.121
301      1-5-2010        111.089
302      2-16-2010       152.021
302      2-16-2010       152.563
                         152.021,
303      5-18-2010       152.352,
                         152.353
304      6-15-2010       T.S.O. II
305      8-3-2010        152.021,
                         152.609
306      12-7-2010       111.068,
                         111.086
307      12-7-2010       T.S.O. V
308      1-4-2011        T.S.O. VI
309      2-1-2011        T.S.O. V
310      2-15-2011       T.S.O. V
311      3-15-2011       T.S.O. V
312      5-3-2011        T.S.O. V
313      9-6-2011        T.S.O. VI
314      7-3-2012        T.S.O. V
315      1-3-2012        T.S.O. IV
316      6-22-2012       Adopting Ordinance
317      5-1-2012        T.S.O. II
318      6-5-2012        T.S.O. VI
319      6-19-2012       111.068,
                         111.086
320      7-3-2012        T.S.O. IV
321      8-7-2012        T.S.O. IV
322      9-4-2012        152.628,
                         152.648
323      11-20-2012      T.S.O. V
324      12-4-2012       152.708,
                         T.S.O. VI
                         52.11,
325      12-4-2012       52.12,
                         53.42,
                         53.43
326      4-2-2013        T.S.O. I
327      4-2-2013        T.S.O. VI
328      4-2-2013        T.S.O. VI
329      4-16-2013       T.S.O. V
330      5-7-2013        152.648
331      8-6-2013        152.021,
                         152.355
332      10-1-2013       T.S.O. I
333      12-17-2013      T.S.O. I
335      4-1-2014        T.S.O. VI
336      4-15-2014       T.S.O. VI
338      7-1-2014        111.001,
                         111.089
340      6-2-2015        T.S.O. VI
341      6-2-2015        T.S.O. V
342      - -2015         T.S.O. VI
343      12-1-2015       30.11
                         111.001,
344      2-9-2016        111.080-
                         111.084
345      6-7-2016        T.S.O. III
346      9-20-2016       T.S.O. V
                         152.605,
                         152.606,
347      9-20-2016       152.611,
                         152.645,
                         152.648,
                         T.S.O. VI
349      2-21-2017       T.S.O. III
                         94.25,
350      3-21-2017       94.26,
                         94.33
351      4-4-2017        T.S.O. III
                         111.089,
352      5-2-2017        111.139,
                         111.178
353      6-13-2017       152.355
354      10-3-2017       T.S.O. VI
355      12-5-2017       T.S.O. VI
356      12-5-2017       T.S.O. I
357      1-2-2018        T.S.O. VI
358      3-20-2018       52.13
359      4-3-2018        152.628
360      4-17-2018       111.089,
                         111.091
361      7-17-2018       T.S.O. VI
                         94.02,
362      12-18-2018      94.05 -
                         94.09
                         96.02,
363      12-18-2018      96.16,
                         96.30
365      3-5-2019        152.214
366      8-7-2019        121.01 -
                         121.13
367      10-1-2019       152.355
368      10-1-2019       T.S.O. VI
369      9-1-2020        32.140,
                         32.141
370      10-20-2020      32.095,
                         32.096
371      10-20-2020      32.110,
                         32.111
372      10-20-2020      32.120,
                         32.121
373      10-20-2020      32.130,
                         32.131
374      3-16-2021       T.S.O. I
                         152.258,
375      5-4-2021        152.264,
                         152.354
                         114.02,
376      5-18-2021       152.021,
                         152.627
                         111.068,
377      6-1-2021        111.082,
                         111.084,
                         111.086
378      10-5-2021       152.688
379      5-3-2022        T.S.O. VI
380      11-2-2021       32.045,
                         32.046
381      12-7-2021       152.648
382      5-3-2022        T.S.O. VI
383      5-17-2022       121.12
                        
 
 
