CODE OF ORDINANCES
CARVER COUNTY, MN
2025 S-20 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 111-2025, passed 7-25-25
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules by reference
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the county, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Carver County code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this county shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance:
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated, unless expressly so
limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code, unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This county code as modified
by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Carver County, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the county, unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this county exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the county for the transaction of all county
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect, unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the County Board of Commissioners shall desire to amend any
existing chapter or section of this code, the chapter or section shall be
specifically repealed and a new chapter or section, containing the desired
amendment, substituted in its place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the County
Auditor for public inspection. The Auditor shall provide a copy for sale for a
reasonable charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES BY REFERENCE.
   It is the intention of the County Board of Commissioners that all future
amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes adopted by reference in
this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted by reference or
referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this code was adopted,
unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the contrary.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs
of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the county to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   COMMISSIONS
         
31.   ISSUANCE OF CITATIONS
         
32.   LOCAL HOUSING TRUST FUND
CHAPTER 30: COMMISSIONS
Section
   
30.01   Park Commission
§ 30.01 PARK COMMISSION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The County Board of Commissioners.
      CHAIRPERSON. The Chairperson of the Park Commission, as provided
hereunder.
      COMMISSION. The County Park Commission, as created by this section.
      PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the county.
      SECRETARY. The Secretary of the Park Commission, as provided hereunder.
      VICE-CHAIRPERSON. The Vice-Chairperson of the Park Commission, as
provided hereunder.
   (B)   Establishment. The Park Commission is hereby established to be an
advisory body to the Board of Commissioners and the Planning Commission which
shall have the duties hereinafter set forth. The Board of Commissioners may, by
resolution duly adopted, delegate to the Park Commission all or any part of
those powers as authorized by M.S. § 398.36, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (C)   Composition.
      (1)   The Commission shall consist of seven members who shall be
appointed by the Board of Commissioners. The members of the Commission shall be
entitled to reimbursement for their expenses actually incurred in the
performance of their duties as members of the Park Commission. They shall also
be entitled to compensation, as may, from time to time, be specified by the
Board of Commissioners by resolution duly adopted.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners may, from time to time, designate
additional persons to act as ex officio members of the Park Commission. They
shall also be entitled to compensation, as may, from time to time, be specified
by the Board of Commissioners, by resolution duly adopted.
      (3)   The Board of Commissioners may, from time to time, designate
additional persons to act as ex officio members of the Park Commission. One or
more additional persons may be members of the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Terms of office. Seven members shall be appointed to the Commission.
They shall serve staggered three-year terms with no less than two nor more than
three members to be appointed each year. A vacancy resulting from causes other
than expiration of the term shall be filled only for the remainder of that
term. Each year in office shall coincide with the calendar year.
   (E)   Vacancies. The Board of Commissioners shall fill all vacancies
occurring on the Commission by appointment for the unexpired term then
existing.
   (F)   Removal of members. The Board of Commissioners, by a unanimous vote of
all of its members, shall have the authority to remove any member of the
Commission from office whenever, in its discretion, the best interests of the
county shall be served thereby.
   (G)   Officers. The members of the Commission shall meet in regular session
the second month of every year and organize by electing from their members the
Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson to serve for the ensuing year. They shall also
appoint the Secretary. The Secretary need not be a member of the Commission.
   (H)   Duties of officers.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Chairperson to preside over all
meetings of the Commission.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Vice-Chairperson to preside in the
absence of the Chairperson.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the Secretary to record the minutes of all
meetings.
   (I)   Rules and procedure. The Commission shall adopt rules to govern its
meetings and procedures. The rules may be amended from time to time, but only
upon notice to all members that the proposed amendment(s) shall be acted upon
at a specified meeting. A majority vote of the Commission shall be required for
the approval of the proposed amendment.
   (J)   Meetings.
      (1)   Regular meetings. The Commission shall meet once a month, unless
there is no business to come before the Commission, place, time and date to be
decided. A schedule of the regular meetings shall be kept on file at the
primary office of the Park Commission. If the Park Commission decides to hold a
regular meeting at a time or place different from the time or placed stated in
its schedule of regular meetings, it shall give the same notice of the meeting
that is provided in this section for a special meeting.
      (2)   Special meetings. The Chairperson or any two members of the
Commission shall have the authority to call a special meeting of the
Commission. Notification of the members of the Park Commission by telephone
shall be sufficient. At least three days before the meeting, written notice
shall be posted on the bulletin board of the Park Commission and shall be
mailed or otherwise delivered to each person who has filed a written request
for notice of special meetings. As an alternative to mailing or otherwise
delivering notice to persons who have requested notice, notice may be published
once at least three days before the meeting in the official newspaper.
      (3)   Open meetings. All regular meetings of the Commission shall be open
to the public, except that meetings of the Park Commission may be closed only
as permitted by M.S. § 13D.05, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (K)   Absence of members. Absence from three consecutive regular meetings
without the formal consent of the Commission shall be deemed to constitute a
resignation of a member and the vacancy thus created shall be filled thereafter
as provided in division (E) above.
   (L)   Duties. The duties of the Park Commission shall include:
      (1)   A survey of existing, proposed and potential parks to serve as a
guide to the preservation of unique areas, the protection of water and land
areas and to locate leisure time areas for outdoor recreation;
      (2)   The preparation and periodic updating of a county’s comprehensive
park plan;
      (3)   Recommendations to the Board of Commissioners for park land
acquisition and methods of financing and maintenance;
      (4)   Preparation and revision of master plans for county and regional
parks;
      (5)   Additional items as the Board of Commissioners may, from time to
time, assign to the Commission for its study and report;
      (6)   Review and recommendations on the annual park budget and capital
improvements program before presentation to the County Board;
      (7)   Review and make recommendations on general park operating policies;
      (8)   Initiate park policy recommendations to be presented to the County
Board; and
      (9)   Review and comment on Metropolitan Parks and Open Space Commission
policies.
   (M)   Annual report. The Commission shall submit annually a full report of
its work to the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 19, passed 6-10-80)
CHAPTER 31: ISSUANCE OF CITATIONS
Section
   
31.01   Issuance of citations
§ 31.01 ISSUANCE OF CITATIONS.
   The following positions and/or appointed persons of the County Sheriff's
Office, while in the course and scope of the performance of their duties, may
issue citations within the scope of the laws of the state, the ordinances of
the county, and ordinances of the cities and townships for which the county
contracts for such enforcement:
   (A)   Sheriff;
   (B)   Chief Deputy;
   (C)   Commander;
   (D)   Lieutenant;
   (E)   Sergeant;
   (F)   Corporal;
   (G)   Deputy;
   (H)   Community Service Officer;
   (I)   Reserve Officer; and
   (J)   Detention Deputy.
(Ord. 55-2005, passed 4-19-05)
CHAPTER 32: LOCAL HOUSING TRUST FUND
Section
   
32.01   Preamble
   
32.02   Definitions
   
32.03   Establishing the Local Housing Trust Fund
   
32.04   Funding sources
   
32.05   Administration of Local Housing Trust Fund
§ 32.01 PREAMBLE.
   (A)   Pursuant to M.S. § 462C.16, Carver County (the “county”) is authorized
to establish a Local Housing Trust Fund.
   (B)   The county has determined to create a Local Housing Trust Fund to
encourage the creation of affordable housing for rental housing and owner-
occupied housing, to promote the preservation of existing affordable housing
and naturally occurring affordable housing, and to provide rental assistance
and homeownership assistance to persons of very low income, low income, and
moderate income.
(Ord. 104-2023, passed 12-19-23)
§ 32.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSONS OF VERY LOW INCOME. Families and individuals whose incomes do not
exceed 50% of area median income, as median income was most recently determined
by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for the
Minneapolis-St. Paul-Bloomington, Minnesota Metropolitan Statistical Area, as
adjusted for smaller and larger families.
   PERSONS OF LOW INCOME. Families and individuals whose incomes do not exceed
80% of the area median income, as the median income was most recently
determined by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for
the Minneapolis-St. Paul-Bloomington, Minnesota Metropolitan Statistical Area,
as adjusted for smaller and larger families.
   PERSONS OF MODERATE INCOME. Families and individuals whose incomes exceed
80%, but do not exceed 120%, of area median income, as median income was most
recently determined by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development for the Minneapolis-St. Paul- Bloomington, Minnesota-Wisconsin
Metropolitan Statistical Area, as adjusted for smaller and larger families.
(Ord. 104-2023, passed 12-19-23)
§ 32.03 ESTABLISHING THE LOCAL HOUSING TRUST FUND.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to the county under M.S. § 462C.16, a
Local Housing Trust Fund is established to provide the following:
   (A)   Grants, loans, and loan guarantees for the development,
rehabilitation, or financing of housing.
   (B)   Acquisitions and construction of affordable housing units.
   (C)   Match other funds from federal, state, or private resources for
housing programs.
   (D)   Rental assistance to persons of very low, low, and moderate income.
   (E)   Down payment assistance.
   (F)   Homebuyer counseling services.
   (G)   Payment of administrative expenses of the Local Housing Trust Fund in
the maximum amount of 10% of the balance of the Local Housing Trust Fund.
(Ord. 104-2023, passed 12-19-23)
§ 32.04 FUNDING SOURCES.
   The Local Housing Trust Fund shall be initially funded by the Carver County
CDA levy. The Board may also pledge other sources of funding, which may
include, but are not limited to:
   (A)   Private cash donations from individuals and corporations designated
for the Local Housing Trust Fund.
   (B)   Payments in lieu of participation in current or future affordable
housing programs.
   (C)   Grants or loans from a state, federal or local government or private
sources.
   (D)   The sale of real and personal property.
   (E)   Local government appropriations, development fees, and other funds as
designated from time to time by the Board.
   (F)   Investment earnings from the Local Housing Trust Fund.
   (G)   Tax Increment Finance (TIF) pooled funds.
   (H)   Housing and Redevelopment levy funds.
   (I)   Other sources of funding approved by the Board.
(Ord. 104-2023, passed 12-19-23)
§ 32.05 ADMINISTRATION OF LOCAL HOUSING TRUST FUND.
   (A)   The Carver County Community Development Agency in and for the county
(the CCCDA) shall administer the Local Housing Trust Fund on behalf of the
county.
   (B)   The CCCDA shall report annually to the county on the use of the Local
Housing Trust Fund, including the number of loans and grants made, the number
and types of residential units assisted, and the number of households provided
rental assistance and down payment assistance.
(Ord. 104-2023, passed 12-19-23)
TITLE V: ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES
      Chapter
         
50.   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
         
51.   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT
         
52.   SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEMS
         
53.   OPEN BURNING
         
54.   FEEDLOT MANAGEMENT
         
55.   PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCES
         
56.   SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM AND WATER WELL LOAN PROGRAM
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Purpose, scope and authority
   
50.002   Definitions
   
50.003   Adopted standards
   
50.004   Amended standards
   
50.005   Department rights and responsibilities
   
50.006   Licensee responsibilities
   
50.007   Service fees
   
50.008   Solid waste storage
   
50.009   Disposal requirements
Hauling Requirements
   
50.020   Operating and equipment standards
   
50.021   Recyclable material collection
   
50.022   Opportunity to recycle
   
50.023   Anti-scavenging
   
50.024   Residential recycling; mandatory
   
50.025   Commercial recycling; mandatory
   
50.026   Licensing and reporting requirements; collection
   
50.027   Base license
   
50.028   Operating license
   
50.029   Delivery requirements
   
50.030   Collection and transportation fees
   
50.031   Illicit collection
   
50.032   Licensing and reporting requirements; construction
   
50.033   Construction/demolition debris license
Solid Waste Facilities
   
50.045   Facilities covered
   
50.046   Exemptions
   
50.047   Licensing requirements
   
50.048   Preliminary application
   
50.049   Final application
   
50.050   Land disposal facilities
   
50.051   Waste combustors
   
50.052   MMSW compost facilities
   
50.053   Refuse derived fuel (RDF) facilities
   
50.054   Transfer stations and canister systems
   
50.055   Recycling facilities
   
50.056   Household hazardous waste temporary storage facilities
   
50.057   Waste tire transfer and storage facilities
   
50.058   Waste tire processing facilities
   
50.059   Yard waste composting facilities
   
50.060   Final application review process
Special Wastes
   
50.070   Yard wastes
   
50.071   Demolition debris
   
50.072   Waste tires
   
50.073   Household hazardous wastes
   
50.074   Major appliances
   
50.075   Infectious wastes
   
50.076   Industrial wastes
   
50.077   Batteries
Administration and Enforcement
   
50.090   Modifications
   
50.091   Citation authority
   
50.092   Suspension
   
50.093   Summary suspension
   
50.094   Suspension reinspection
   
50.095   Revocation
   
50.096   Hearings
 
   
50.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 PURPOSE, SCOPE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This chapter regulates the storage, transportation and disposal of
solid waste materials in the county. If a local requirement is more restrictive
than the requirement found in this chapter, the local requirement will
supersede the county requirement. This chapter has been adopted by the Board of
Commissioners to protect the public’s health and prevent nuisance; to protect
air and ground water resources; to minimize reliance upon land disposal
capacity by promoting waste abatement such as recycling and composting; and to
supplement and support the county’s and state’s controls over solid waste
management activities.
   (B)   (1)   This chapter establishes standards for the regulation of solid
waste management activities and facilities in the county. This chapter requires
that appropriate licenses be obtained from the county for the establishment and
operation of solid waste management activities and facilities. This chapter is
intended to support and promote the health, welfare and safety of the public
pursuant to M.S. Chapters 115A, 145A, 375, 400 and 473, as they may be amended
from time to time.
      (2)   This chapter incorporates and makes a part of its provisions
previous amendments.
   (C)   These ordinances will be referenced as appropriate in this chapter.
   (D)   The county has the authority to adopt this chapter under M.S. §
145A.05, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency or MPCA.
   APPLIANCE. The same meaning as MAJOR APPLIANCE.
   BASE COUNTY. The metropolitan county in which a hauler’s office, records and
vehicles are primarily located. If differing parts of the hauler’s business are
located in more than one metropolitan county, the BASE COUNTY shall be the
metropolitan county in which most of the vehicles are kept as determined by the
Department. The BASE COUNTY for haulers based in a county not participating in
the regional licensing program shall be an adjacent metropolitan county, as
determined by the Department.
   BASE LICENSE. The license obtained by the hauler from the base county, as a
precondition to obtaining an operating license from the county or other
counties.
   BRUSH DISPOSAL FACILITY. A site used exclusively for disposal in or on the
land of trees and tree parts including stumps, branches and their attached
leaves. The disposal may include open burning and burial of the resulting ash
and unburned tree parts.
   CANISTER SYSTEM. A facility, usually to serve the public, where solid waste
is deposited in mechanically serviced containers as an intermediate step of
congregating municipal solid waste from several properties for periodic removal
of the accumulated waste by a commercial hauler.
   CLOSURE. Action to prevent or minimize the threat to public health and the
environment posed by a facility that no longer accepts the solid waste for
which it operated or was permitted, including the removal of contaminated
equipment, the removal of liners, applying final cover, grading and seeding
final cover, installation of monitoring devices, construction of ground and
surface water diversion structures and gas control systems as necessary.
   COMMERCIAL HAULER. Any person who owns, operates or leases vehicles for the
purpose of contracting to collect or transport solid waste from residential,
commercial or industrial properties.
   COMPOST FACILITY. A site used to compost or co-compost solid waste including
all structures or processing equipment used to control drainage, collect and
treat leachate and storage areas for the incoming waste, the final product and
residuals resulting from the composting process.
   COMPOSTING. The controlled microbial degradation of organic waste to yield a
humus-like product.
   CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS. Waste building material, packaging and rubble resulting
from construction, remodeling and repair.
   COUNTIES. One or more counties that are parties to the Regional Hauler
Licensing Joint Powers Agreement.
   COUNTY. The County of Carver, Minnesota, or any department or representative
of the county who is authorized by this chapter or otherwise by the County
Board to represent the county in the administration or enforcement of this
chapter.
   COUNTY BOARD.  The elected officers composing the Board of Commissioners.
   DEMOLITION DEBRIS. Solid waste resulting from the demolition of buildings,
roads and other manmade structures, including but not limited to materials such
as concrete, brick, bituminous concrete, untreated wood, masonry, glass, rock
and plastic building parts. DEMOLITION DEBRIS does not include asbestos wastes.
   DEMOLITION LAND DISPOSAL FACILITY. An area of land used for the disposal of
demolition debris.
   DEPARTMENT. The County Department of Environmental Services or a designee of
the Environmental Services Department. DEPARTMENT shall also mean the county
agency assigned the responsibility to administer the regional hauler licensing
program in the county.
   DISPOSAL. The meaning given it in M.S. § 115A.03(10), as it may be amended
from time to time.
   DUMPING. The discharge, deposit, injection, spilling, leaking or placing of
any solid waste into or on any land or water so that the waste or any
constituent thereof may enter the environment or be emitted into the air, or
discharged into any water, including ground water.
   END MARKET.  A facility or business which utilizes source separated
recyclable materials to generate new products or materials.
   FACILITY. All contiguous land, structures, monitoring devices and other
improvements on the land used for monitoring, processing, storing or disposing
of solid waste, leachate or residuals from solid waste processing.
   FARM. A parcel of land that is at least ten acres in size used for the
production of livestock, dairy animals, dairy products, poultry and poultry
products, fur bearing animals, horticultural and nursery stock which is under
M.S. §§ 18.44 to 18.61, as they may be amended from time to time, fruit of all
kinds, vegetables, forage, grains, bees and apiary products.
   FIRE MARSHAL. The State Fire Marshal or the Chief of the Fire Department in
a municipality that has adopted the Uniform Fire Code of the state.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land that is subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding
in any given year from any source.
   GARBAGE. Discarded material resulting from the handling, processing,
storage, preparation, serving and consumption of food.
   GROUND WATER. The meaning given in Minn. Rules Part 7035.0300, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   HAULER. Any person, firm, corporation, association, partnership or other
entity, other than an individual resident hauling his or her household waste,
who collects or transports mixed municipal solid waste that is generated in the
counties.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE.
      (1)   As defined in M.S. § 116.06, as it may be amended from time to
time, any refuse, sludge or other waste material or combinations or refuse,
sludge or other waste materials in solid, semi-solid, liquid or contained
gaseous form which because of its quantity, concentration or chemical, physical
or infectious characteristics may:
         (a)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or
an increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
         (b)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported or disposed of,
or otherwise managed.
      (2)   Categories of hazardous waste material include, but are not limited
to explosives, flammables, oxidizers, poisons, irritants and corrosives.
HAZARDOUS WASTE does not include source, special nuclear or by-product material
as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
   INCINERATION. The process of burning wastes for the purpose of volume and
weight reduction in facilities designed for the use.
   INDUSTRIAL SOLID WASTE. All solid waste generated from an industrial or
manufacturing process and solid waste generated from an industrial or
manufacturing process and solid waste generated from non-manufacturing
activities such as service and commercial establishments. INDUSTRIAL SOLID
WASTE does not include office materials, restaurant and food preparation waste,
discarded machinery, demolition debris or household refuse.
   LEACHATE. Liquid that has percolated through solid waste and may have
extracted dissolved or suspended materials from it.
   LICENSE. Express written permission as granted by the County Board to engage
in solid waste management activities.
   LICENSEE. A person who has been issued a license by the County Board for
solid waste management purposes pursuant to this chapter.
   MAJOR APPLIANCE. Clothes washers and dryers, dishwashers, hot water heaters,
residential furnaces, garbage disposals, trash compactors, conventional and
microwave ovens, ranges and stoves, air conditioners, dehumidifiers,
refrigerators, freezers and other devices that may be added to the definition
consistent with changes in M.S. § 115A.03, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   MIXED MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE or MMSW. Garbage, refuse and other solid waste
from residential, commercial, industrial and community activities that the
generator aggregates for collection,  but does not include auto hulks, street
sweepings, ash, construction debris, mining waste, sludges, tree and
agricultural wastes, tires, lead acid batteries, used oil and other materials,
collected, processed and disposed of as separate waste streams.
   MIXED MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE LAND DISPOSAL FACILITY. A sanitary landfill used
for the disposal of mixed municipal solid waste in or on the land.
   MUNICIPALITY. A city, village, borough, county, town, sanitary district,
school district or other governmental subdivision or public corporation, or
agency created by the legislature.
   NOTICE OF VIOLATION. A formal written notice issued by the Department to
notify a party that he or she is in violation of a county ordinance. This
notice will inform the party of the alleged violations, the nature and extent
of the violations and the required corrective actions. The NOTICE OF VIOLATION
shall also specify additional actions that will be taken by the Department,
such as the inclusion of NOV orders into a final order or consent order and/or
the issuance of a citation, as well as specific timeframes in which these
actions will be completed.
   NUISANCE. A use of property or course of conduct that interferes with the
legal rights of others by causing damage, annoyance or inconvenience.
   OPEN BURNING. Burning any matter whereby the resultant combustion products
are emitted directly to the open atmosphere without passing through an adequate
stack, duct or chimney.
   OPERATING COUNTY. Any of the counties, including the base county, in which
the hauler collects or transports mixed municipal solid waste.
   OPERATING LICENSE. The license issued by an operating county to operate
within each operating county, including the base county, in which the hauler
collects or transports mixed municipal solid waste and which may contain
specific conditions imposed by the issuing county.
   OPERATOR. The person responsible for the overall operation of a facility.
   PERSON. Any human being, any municipality or other governmental or political
subdivision or other public agency, any public or private corporation, any
partnership, firm, association or other organization, any receiver, trustee,
assignee, agent or other legal representative of any of the foregoing, or any
other legal entity.
   PERSONNEL or FACILITY PERSONNEL. All persons who work at or oversee the
operation of a solid waste facility, and whose actions or failure to act may
result in noncompliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   POST-CLOSURE and POST-CLOSURE CARE. Actions taken for the care, maintenance
and monitoring of a facility after closure that will prevent, mitigate or
minimize the threat to public health and environment posed by the closed
facility.
   PUTRESCIBLE MATERIAL. Solid waste which is capable of being rotten or which
may reach a foul state of decay or decomposition.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
      (1)   Materials that are separated from mixed municipal solid waste for
the purpose of recycling, including, but not limited to paper, glass, plastics,
tin, aluminum, cardboard, magazines, high grade paper, metals, automobile oil
and batteries.
      (2)   Refuse derived fuel or other material that is destroyed by
incineration is not a RECYCLABLE MATERIAL.
   RECYCLING FACILITY. A site used to separate, process, modify, convert or
otherwise prepare solid waste so that component materials or substances may be
beneficially used or reused as raw materials.
   REFUSE. Putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes, including garbage,
rubbish, ashes, incinerator ash, incinerator residue, street cleanings and
market and industrial solid wastes, and including municipal treatment wastes
which do not contain free moisture.
   REGIONAL HAULER LICENSING BOARD. The Joint Powers Board established by
agreement of the counties to coordinate the Regional Hauler Licensing Program.
   REGIONAL HAULER LICENSING PROGRAM. The cooperative hauler licensing program
established by joint powers agreement by and among the counties.
   RESIDENCE. Any building or portion thereof used as a dwelling or sleeping
area for people.
   RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY. A waste facility established and used primarily
for the reclamation for sale, use or reuse of materials, substances, energy or
other products contained within or derived from waste.
   SALVAGE YARD. An open area where waste, stored or secondhand materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled,
including but not limited to: scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber,
tires and bottles. A SALVAGE YARD includes an auto wrecking yard but does not
include uses established entirely within enclosed buildings.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A land disposal facility employing any engineering method
of disposing of solid waste on land in a manner that minimizes environmental
hazards by spreading the solid waste in thin layers, compacting the solid waste
into the smallest practical volume and applying cover material at the end of
each operating day, or at intervals as may be required by the Agency.
   SEWAGE SLUDGE. The meaning given it in M.S. § 115A.03(29), as it may be
amended from time to time.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semi-solid or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial or industrial waste water treatment plant, water supply treatment
plant or air contaminant treatment facility, or any other waste having similar
characteristics and effects.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse, demolition debris, sludge from a water supply
treatment plant or air contaminant treatment facility, and other discarded
waste materials and sludges, in solid, semi- solid, liquid or contained gaseous
form, resulting from industrial, commercial, mining and agricultural
operations, and from community activities. Except where specified otherwise, it
includes elements of a waste stream which have been source separated for
recycling purposes. It does not include hazardous waste, animal waste used as
fertilizer, earthen fill, boulders, rock, sewage sludge, solids or dissolved
material in domestic sewage or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows
or other common pollutants in water resources, such as silt. It does not
include dissolved or suspended solids in industrial waste water effluents or
discharges which are point sources subject to permits under Section 402 of the
Federal Waste Pollution Control Act, as amended. It also does not include
source, special nuclear or by-product materials as defined by the Atomic Energy
Act of 1954, as amended.
   SOLID WASTE FACILITY. All property real or personal, including negative and
positive easements and water and air rights, which is or may be needed or
useful for the processing or disposal of waste. It includes but is not limited
to the storage, collection, transportation, processing and reuse, conversion or
disposal of solid waste in a safe, environmentally sound manner.
   SOLID WASTE MASTER PLAN. The solid waste master plan for the county, as
generated and implemented in accordance with M.S. § 473.803, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   SOLID WASTE TRANSPORTATION. The conveying of solid waste from one place to
another, by means of vehicle, rail car, water vessel, conveyor or other means.
   SOURCE SEPARATED RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Those elements of a waste stream
which are separated by the generator for reuse in their original form or for
use in manufacturing processes.
   STATE. The State of Minnesota.
   TIRE. A pneumatic tire or solid tire for motor vehicles as defined in M.S. §
169.01, as it may be amended from time to time.
   TIRE PROCESSING. Producing or manufacturing usable materials, including
fuel, from waste tires including necessary incidental temporary storage
activity.
   TRANSFER STATION. A facility in which solid waste from collection vehicles
is concentrated for subsequent transport. A TRANSFER FACILITY may be fixed or
mobile.
   UNPROCESSABLE MIXED MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE. Mixed municipal waste which can
not be processed at a given resource recovery facility as documented by the
operator of the resource recovery facility.
   UNPROCESSED MIXED MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE. Mixed municipal solid waste which,
between collection and land disposal, has not been delivered to and managed by
a resource recovery facility.
   WARNING LETTER. A written notice issued by the Department to notify a party
that he or she is in violation of a county ordinance. If a WARNING LETTER is
issued, it shall be utilized as the initial county notification of alleged
violations, except in cases of imminent threat to the public health and safety
or the environment. The WARNING LETTER will inform the party of the alleged
violations, the nature and extent of the violations, and the required
corrective actions.
   WASTE INCINERATOR. A facility in which solid waste is burned for the purpose
of volume and weight reduction.
   WASTE TIRE. The meaning assigned by M.S. § 115A.90, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   WASTE TIRE PROCESSING FACILITY. A licensed waste facility used for the
shredding, slicing or producing or manufacturing usable materials from waste
tires, and may include temporary storage activity at the facility. Processing
does not include the retreading of waste tires.
   WASTE TIRE STORAGE FACILITY. A facility permitted by the Agency to store up
to 500,000 waste passenger tires or the equivalent weight of other waste tires.
   WASTE TIRE TRANSFER FACILITY. A facility permitted by the Agency to store up
to 10,000 waste passenger tires or the equivalent weight of other waste tires.
   YARD WASTE. The garden wastes, leaves, lawn cuttings, weeds and prunings
generated at residential or commercial properties.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00; Am. Ord. 85-2018, passed 6-19-18)
§ 50.003 ADOPTED STANDARDS.
   Minn. Rules Parts 7035.0300 to 7035.2875, 9220.0200 to 9220.0300 and
9220.0450 to 9220.0510 inclusive, relating to solid waste and waste tire
management, respectively, as they may be amended from time to time, are hereby
adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter, as amended.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.004 AMENDED STANDARDS.
   The above adopted rules are hereby amended as follows:
   (A)   Wherever the term “Minnesota Pollution Control Agency” or “agency”
appears in these adopted rules, it shall be held to mean the “Department.”
   (B)   Wherever the “Commissioner” appears in these adopted rules, it shall
be held to mean “Department.”
   (C)   Wherever the term “permit,” “permittee” or “permitted” appears in
these adopted rules, it shall mean “license,” “licensee,” licensing” or
“licensed.”
   (D)   The terms “Minnesota” or “State of Minnesota” shall be held to mean
“Carver County.”
   (E)   Wherever the term “Minnesota Waste Management Board” or “Board”
appears in these adopted rules, it shall be held to mean the “Department.”
   (F)   Wherever the term “Chair” appears in these adopted rules, it shall be
held to mean “Department.”
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.005 DEPARTMENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Department shall have the right to administer this chapter.
   (B)   The Department’s rights shall include, but shall not be limited to
those described in this section:
      (1)   Routine inspection and evaluation of solid waste management
activities, sites or facilities shall be made by the Department. An applicant
and the licensee shall allow free access to the Department; provided that the
entrance and activity is undertaken after reasonable notice and during normal
business hours as provided in M.S. § 115A.882, as it may be amended from time
to time, for the purpose of making the inspections as may be necessary to
determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter, or any other
applicable statute, or for the purpose of making written and documented notice
of any deficiencies or recommendations for their correction and the date by
which corrections shall be accomplished.
      (2)   It will be the responsibility of Department staff to receive
complaints from county residents regarding solid waste issues. Department staff
shall have the right to investigate these complaints and pursue the necessary
enforcement activities which may include, but are not limited to: issue orders
to suspend or stop actions which constitute a violation of this chapter;
recommend that legal proceedings be initiated by the county to compel
compliance with the provisions of this chapter; and advise, consult and
cooperate with the public, the Board of Commissioners and other governmental
agencies in the furtherance of this chapter.
      (3)   The Department shall have the right to recommend, when necessary,
to the County Attorney’s Office, that legal proceedings be initiated against a
certain solid waste management activity, or facility.
      (4)   The Department shall have the right to encourage and conduct
studies, investigations and research relating to aspects of solid waste
management, such as methodology, chemical and physical considerations and
engineering.
      (5)   The Department shall have the right to advise, consult and
cooperate with other governmental agencies in the furtherance of the purposes
of this chapter.
      (6)   The Department shall have the right to prepare and negotiate
agreements with responsible parties to address the closure and post-closure
requirements for licensed and unlicensed solid waste facilities.
   (C)   It will be the responsibility of Department staff to perform solid
waste planning activities. These activities will include the following: meeting
Metropolitan Council and state reporting and planning requirements, working
with other counties to evaluate and/or plan regional facilities and/or
operations, planning and/or evaluating facilities and/or operations within the
county. The primary issues to be addressed in planning activities are waste
reduction, MMSW processing/disposal, source separation/recycling, yard waste
composting, household hazardous waste management and waste education.
   (D)   (1)   The Department has the right to license solid waste haulers and
solid waste processing facilities, as established in M.S. § 473.811, as it may
be amended from time to time. Department staff shall have the right to perform
or oversee work to license solid waste haulers and solid waste facilities.
Department staff shall have the right to enforce compliance with solid waste
licenses issued by the county. Department staff shall have right to pursue
actions required to enforce compliance with solid waste licenses issued by the
county.
      (2)   The Department shall have the right to issue or deny solid waste
licenses and to impose solid waste management activity, site or facility
specific conditions on the licenses.
   (E)   It will be the responsibility of Department staff to administer county
solid waste programs. These programs encompass the following activities: waste
reduction, source separation/recycling, yard waste composting, household
hazardous waste management and waste education.
   (F)   It will be the responsibility of Department staff to perform and/or
oversee activities pertaining to the processing and/or disposal of solid waste
generated within the county. These activities shall also include negotiation
and execution of contracts with solid waste management facilities.
   (G)   It will be the responsibility of Department staff to provide
recommendations to the Board regarding the following: planning issues, facility
development, solid waste program development, solid waste processing/disposal,
budgeting allocation, licensing and vendor selection.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.006 LICENSEE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The licensee’s responsibilities shall include, but shall not be
limited to those described in this section.
   (B)   The licensee shall be responsible for compliance with all of the
provisions of this chapter and all applicable state and federal statutes and
rules promulgated thereunder.
   (C)   The licensee shall allow the Department free access to the solid waste
management activity, site or facility, provided the entrance and activity is
undertaken after reasonable notice and during normal business hours, except as
provided in M.S. Chapter 115A, as it may be amended from time to time. For the
purpose of making inspections as may be necessary to determine compliance with
the requirements of this chapter or any other applicable statute, ordinance or
regulation.
   (D)   The licensee shall allow the Department and the County Board and their
designees access to records required under M.S. § 115A.882, as it may be
amended from time to time, MPCA Solid Waste Management Rules Parts 7001.3500(3)
(A) and 7035 concerning the operation of a solid waste management activity or
facility.
   (E)   (1)   No licensee shall operate any solid waste management activity or
facility, or dispose of, or permit to be disposed, any solid wastes in a manner
as to degrade the soil, air or waters or the county.
      (2)   Any licensee who causes any degradation of the soil, air or waters
of the county shall undertake whatever action is necessary to correct the
degradation and restore the soil, air or waters to its condition prior to its
degradation.
   (F)   The licensee shall be responsible for facilitating all environmental
monitoring, including but not limited to water, soil and landfill gases, which
are required by this chapter or the license conditions for the applicable solid
waste management activity or facility.
   (G)   The licensee agrees to indemnify and save the county harmless from all
losses, costs and charges that may be incurred by the county due to the
negligent or intentional acts the licensee, its officers, agents or employees
or the failure of the licensee to comply with the provisions of this chapter
and which are not otherwise payable from the insurance and financial assurance
required by this chapter.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.007 SERVICE FEES.
   (A)   (1)   The purpose of the service fees shall be to raise funds for
programs and efforts which protect environmental resources and which help the
county ensure compliance with state law. State law establishes recycling and
processing goals and mandates other waste management programs which counties
have the responsibility of meeting and implementing.
      (2)   This section is enacted pursuant to M.S. §§ 473.811 and 400.08, as
they may be amended from time to time, which grant the county the authority to
establish and determine the boundaries of solid waste management service areas
in the county and to charge properties within the service area a service fee.
The boundaries of the county shall constitute the boundaries of the solid waste
management service area.
   (B)   (1)   The county shall impose a service charge for solid waste
management services provided to the various parcels of land in the county, and
the charges shall result in an assessment payable with the real estate taxes or
other manners as determined by the County Board of Commissioners. The method of
billing, the amount of the charge and the system of assessing the charge to the
various parcels of land in the county shall be determined and adjusted by
ordinance of the County Board Commissioners.
      (2)   On or before October 15 in each year, the County Board shall
certify to the County Auditor all unpaid outstanding service fee charges and a
description of the lands against which the charges arose. It shall be the duty
of the County Auditor, upon order of the County Board, to extend the
assessments with interest rate provided for in M.S. § 279.03(1), as it may be
amended from time to time, upon the tax rolls of the county for the taxes of
the year in which the assessment was filed. For each year ending October 15,
the assessment with interest shall be carried into the tax becoming due and
payable in January of the following year, and shall be enforced and collected
in the manner provided for the enforcement and collection of real property
taxes in accordance with the provisions of the laws of the state. The charges,
if not paid, shall become delinquent and be subject to the same penalties and
the same rate of interest as the taxes under the general laws of the state.
      (3)   The County Board, by ordinance, may establish or revise the rate
schedule for solid waste management services. All rates and charges shall be
uniform in their application to use and service of the same character and
quantity. A copy of the current rate schedule shall be kept on file in the
Office of the County Auditor.  If no new rate schedule for solid waste
management services is adopted in any year, the rate schedule for the previous
year shall remain in effect.
      (4)   (a)   In establishing or revising the rate schedule, the Board may
take into account all factors relevant to solid waste management and disposal.
The factors include, but are not limited to, the character, kind and quality of
service and of solid waste, the method of disposition, the number of people
served at each place of collection, and all other factors that enter into the
cost of providing service including, but not limited to, public education,
solid waste planning, recycling programs, industrial waste management, solid
waste management facilities, operating and debt service cost.
         (b)   The Service Fee as provided for herein shall be established in
the Carver County Fee Schedule Ordinance.
      (5)   Unpaid charges assessed to tax exempt properties may be collected
in Small Claims Court or through other means as may be approved by the County
Attorney.
      (6)   Any property owner who believes that the service charge imposed
upon his or her property is incorrect, may appeal the charge. An appeal form
may be obtained from the Environmental Services Department Office and shall be
filed within 30 days of mailing the service charge statement by the county.
      (7)   The Environmental Services Director shall, within 30 days of
receipt of the appeal, review the appeal and notify the appellant by U.S. mail
whether an adjustment is due and how much, or whether the appeal is denied.
      (8)   An appellant whose appeal has been denied or who is unsatisfied
with the decision of the Environmental Services Director, may request that the
Carver County Board of Commissioners further review the appeal. The request for
further review shall be submitted to the Environmental Services Department
within 30 days of the notice of decision on the original appeal. A form for
this request must be obtained from and filed with the Environmental Services
Department.
      (9)   The County Board of Commissioners shall, within 30 days of receipt
of the appeal, review the appeal and notify the appellant by U.S. mail of a
decision on the appeal.
   (C)   As established in M.S. § 400.08(4)(c), as it may be amended from time
to time, the county shall have the authority to impose an assessment upon waste
collection fees which commercial haulers charge residents and businesses. This
rate may be set by resolution by the Board and may be utilized to augment or
replace the property assessment mechanism for the county.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00; Am. Ord. 4C, passed 11-23-04; Am. Fee for Service
Ord. 48, passed 12-19-06)
§ 50.008 SOLID WASTE STORAGE.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise allowed by this chapter, owners and managers
of every property shall be responsible for maintaining the property and any
structures on the property free of improperly stored solid waste accumulations.
This includes removal of: animal feces; animal carcasses; inoperable machines,
appliances, fixtures; and equipment of damaged, deteriorated or obsolete
condition; broken furniture, boxes, crates and other debris; any other form of
solid waste.
      (2)   Nothing in this section is designed to restrict the commonly
accepted activities of farms and salvage yard operations provided that
materials and wastes are stored in a pollution and nuisance free manner and in
compliance with other county ordinances and the regulations of federal, state
and local governments and their regulatory agencies.
   (B)   (1)   Every property must be supplied with adequate mixed municipal
solid waste (MMSW) storage containers. These containers must be provided by the
owner of the property or by contract with a commercial hauler. The owner of the
property will use the containers for MMSW storage. If the property owner does
not occupy the property, he or she will cause the occupant or tenant to use the
containers for MMSW storage.
      (2)   All MMSW storage containers shall be of sound construction
resistant to insect or animal entry. Containers will be constructed with rust
and impact resistant materials and will be equipped with tight-fitting covers.
The property owner is responsible for maintaining containers in a neat, clean,
sanitary and leak-resistant condition. If the container is supplied by a
commercial hauler, the commercial hauler shall ensure that the container is
leak resistant.
      (3)   For non-farm properties, the property owner shall cause the
contents of all MMSW containers to be removed for processing/disposal no less
frequently than once every 15 calendar days. Non-putrescible source-separated
recyclable materials may be stored in containers without collection for longer
than 15 calendar days on non-farm properties.
      (4)   For farm properties, the property owner shall cause the contents of
all MMSW containers to be removed for processing/disposal no less frequently
than once every 30 calendar days for MMSW provided that the storage does not
result in nuisance or pollution problems. Non-putrescible source- separated
materials may be stored in containers without collection for longer than 30
calendar days on farm properties.
   (C)   (1)   If the location of storage is different than the location of
set-out for collection, containers may not be set out for collection for more
than 24 hours.
      (2)   For a resident with collection service in a rural area who sets out
containers for collection on a public road, containers must be placed on the
shoulder of the roadway.
      (3)   These containers must be placed on the edge of the shoulder
furthest from the roadway.
   (D)   If a commercial hauler terminates service to an account due to
delinquent payment, the commercial hauler shall notify the Department of this
action within one month of the termination so that the Department may determine
the potential for public health or pollution problems resulting from the lack
of collection services at the property.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.009 DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall use or allow land under his or her ownership
and/or control to be used for solid waste disposal purposes, except at an
operation for which a license for disposal has been granted by the Board.
      (2)   All disposal of solid waste must be in accordance with applicable
county ordinances and Agency rules. No person may dispose of a waste at an area
or a facility which is not licensed for accepting that waste.
      (3)   Consistent with M.S. § 115A.99(1), as it may be amended from time
to time, a person who unlawfully places any portion of solid waste in or on
public or private lands, shorelands, roadways or waters is subject to a civil
penalty of not less than twice nor more than five times the amount of cost
incurred by a state agency or political subdivision to remove, process and
dispose of the waste. A state agency or political subdivision that incurs cost
as described in this section may bring an action to recover the civil penalty,
related legal, administrative and court costs, and damages for injury to or
pollution of the lands, shorelands, roadways or waters where the waste was
placed if owned or managed by the entity bringing the action. Civil penalties
collected under this subsection must be deposited in the general fund of the
jurisdiction enforcing the penalties.
      (4)   A private person may join an action by the state or a political
subdivision to recover a civil penalty to allow the person to recover damages
for waste unlawfully placed on the person’s property.
      (5)   A person may be subject to a civil penalty for each disposal
offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed for each day on which a
violation occurs or for each day during which a violation continues.
   (B)   Yard waste cannot be disposed of in land disposal or MMSW processing,
except composting, facilities unless that facility is specifically licensed or
permitted to accept yard waste by the Agency and any local government having
licensing jurisdiction. Yard waste can not be deposited at a transfer station
unless there is a licensed compost area at the facility or the material will be
transferred to a licensed facility.
   (C)   Lead acid batteries may not be disposed of in the MMSW stream. Used
lead acid batteries must be accepted by retailers who sell new lead acid
batteries.
   (D)   Dry cell batteries containing mercuric oxide, silver oxide or nickel
cadmium are recyclable and may not be disposed of in the MMSW stream.
   (E)   Used motor oil may not be disposed of at any MMSW processing or land
disposal facility.
   (F)   Major appliances may not be disposed of at land disposal facilities.
   (G)   No other waste or material banned from land disposal or MMSW
processing facilities by state statute after the adoption date of this chapter
may be disposed of or processed at these facilities.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
Penalty, see § 50.999
HAULING REQUIREMENTS
§ 50.020 OPERATING AND EQUIPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   (1)   All solid waste which is hauled must be secured in covered,
leak-proof vehicles or containers such that loads will not blow free or
discharge liquids from the hauling vehicle.
      (2)   Where spillage does occur, the material will be picked up
immediately by the hauler or solid waste transporter. Spillage that cannot be
immediately and completely cleaned up must be reported to the Department.
   (B)   All vehicles or containers which are used to haul solid waste on a
regular basis must be kept clean and free of residues of the waste material so
as to minimize problems associated with odors, animals and insects.
   (C)   No one shall collect or transport solid waste that is smoking,
smoldering or burning, except in a container designed and approved by the Fire
Marshal and the Department for that purpose.
   (D)   (1)   Not including non-putrescible source-separated recyclable
materials, solid waste may not be stored in any type of collection or
transportation vehicle for a period of more than 48 hours. This period may be
extended up to 72 hours if the waste can not be disposed of or processed due to
a legal holiday being celebrated on a Friday or Monday.
      (2)   Non-putrescible source-separated recyclable materials may be stored
in collection and/or transportation vehicles for no longer than seven calendar
days.
   (E)   No solid waste collection or transportation vehicle which is not
thoroughly cleaned and free of waste residues may be parked outdoors within 500
feet of a commercial or residential structure not owned by the owner or the
operator of the vehicle for more than two hours unless the Department has been
notified and has approved a longer duration.
   (F)   All relevant Minnesota Department of Transportation (MNDOT) and
Minnesota Department of Health (MDH) requirements regarding equipment,
operations and inspections and all applicable local, state and federal
regulations must be met.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.021 RECYCLABLE MATERIAL COLLECTION.
   (A)   The hauler must provide a service, either directly or through written
subcontract with a person or company approved by the Department as a condition
to the license, to collect four broad categories of recyclable materials and
yard wastes from all single-family residential, all multiple-family residential
and commercial and industrial customers within incorporated areas. Paper and
corrugated fiberboard must be collected from commercial, industrial and
institutional customers when requested by the customer. Additional recyclable
materials may be added to this by resolution of the Board after the effective
date of this section. All licensed haulers shall be given 120 days’ advance
notice in writing of the proposed additional recyclable material and shall be
notified in writing 15 calendar days in advance of the time and date of the
County Board meeting at which time a decision will be rendered. Notice shall be
deemed given by mail via general delivery, to the mailing address identified on
the most recent license application or renewal form on file in the Department.
   (B)   The hauler may specify the type of container their customer must place
the recyclables in. The containers must be provided by the hauler or already
available to a customer at the time this chapter provision becomes effective.
   (C)   The hauler must specify the time and day of collection that their
customers are to place their recyclables out on their property for pickup. The
hauler must collect the recyclables within 12 hours of the designated time. The
collection location must be on the customer’s property in a location at or near
the regular solid waste collection site or other location mutually agreeable to
the hauler and the customer.
   (D)   The hauler may specify how a customer is to place their recyclables
out for collection and how the recyclables are to be prepared. The County
Environmental Director reserves the right to review and modify the amount of
preparation required by the hauler in consideration of local recyclable market
requirements.
   (E)   The hauler must collect recyclables from each customer at least twice
per month unless normal solid waste collection service is provided less
frequently than weekly, in which case the frequency of recyclable collection
shall be the same as refuse collection.
   (F)   The hauler is assumed to own the recyclables they have collected and
may market them as they see fit. However, a hauler may not dispose of any
recyclables in or on the land, nor through incineration unless given prior
written approval to do so by the Environmental Director.
   (G)   (1)   The hauler must submit an annual report to the Department, on or
before January 31 of each year for the previous calendar year, identifying the
weight in tons of all recyclables and all other disposable solid wastes
collected from county customers. If tonnage is unavailable for disposable solid
waste, cubic yards shall be reported.
      (2)   The annual report must identify the weight of each type of
recyclable collected.
   (H)   The hauler must demonstrate to the Department at the time of license
application and at time of annual license renewal how they will provide both an
incentive to their customers to reduce the amount of waste generated and an
incentive to recycle the materials designated by the County Board. Examples of
compliance with this section include, but are not limited to volume based
collection fees and/or credit equal to the reduction in tip fee realized
through removal of the amount a customer is recycling.
   (I)   Municipalities or townships within the county that contract with
haulers must contract only with a hauler who is licensed by the county.
Contracts must also be consistent with the provisions in this section.
   (J)   Solid waste haulers shall not mix source-separated materials with
mixed municipal solid waste or handle source-separated materials in any way
that reduces the reusability or marketability of the source-separated material.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.022 OPPORTUNITY TO RECYCLE.
   (A)   For all residential generators where the hauler contracts for services
directly with the generator, the hauler shall provide to the generator the
opportunity to recycle, as described in §
50.021.
   (B)   The owner/manager of multi-family residential units shall offer
recycling services to their tenants including a convenient location to store
recycled material.
   (C)   No mixed municipal solid waste collector shall impose a greater fee on
a resident who recycles than on a resident who does not recycle.
   (D)   The licensed hauler shall provide for the collection of at least the
following materials: newspaper; clear, brown and green glass containers; tin
cans; and aluminum beverage cans, cardboard, plastics, magazines and high grade
paper.
   (E)   The hauler must notify the customer if materials are contaminated or
not sorted correctly. The notification must be in writing stating the violation
and corrective measures and it must be presented at the time of collection.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.023 ANTI-SCAVENGING.
   (A)   (1)   Ownership of the separated recyclable materials set out by a
customer for collection by the hauler shall be vested in the hauler servicing
the person who is recycling. It shall be unlawful and an offense against this
chapter for any person other than the hauler or the owner, lessee or occupant
of a residential dwelling or commercial/industrial business, to pick up the
separated recyclable materials set out for collection.
      (2)   The person shall obtain written permission from the Department and
from the hauler servicing the accounts where the recyclables are set out for
collection.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners may establish and require that additional
types of recyclable materials be collected, that multi-family, commercial and
industrial generators be provided collection services, that the frequency of
collection from any type of generator be increased or decreased, and that
recycling services be offered to generators in the unincorporated areas of the
county. These additional requirements may be established by resolution of the
County Board at the beginning of each license year.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.024 RESIDENTIAL RECYCLING; MANDATORY.
   (A)   This section shall be effective upon action by the County Board.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of a residential or
multi-unit residential building to generate and deposit for collection mixed
municipal solid waste that contains any of the following recyclable materials:
      (1)   Beverage containers;
      (2)   Glass recyclables;
      (3)   Newsprint; and
      (4)   Other materials that may be designated by the County Board unless
the waste is directly delivered or collected for direct delivery to a facility
that has been approved by the county for separation of recyclable material.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.025 COMMERCIAL RECYCLING; MANDATORY.
   (A)   This section shall be effective upon action by the County Board.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of a commercial
building to generate or deposit for collection mixed municipal solid waste that
contains any of the following recyclable materials:
      (1)   Beverage containers;
      (2)   Glass recyclables;
      (3)   Paper recyclables;
      (4)   Other material that may be designated by the County Board unless
the waste is directly delivered or collected for direct delivery to a facility
that has been approved by the county for separation of recyclable materials.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.026 LICENSING AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS; COLLECTION.
   (A)   (1)   A person that collects construction debris, industrial waste or
mixed municipal solid waste for transportation to a waste facility shall
disclose to each waste generator from whom waste is collected the name,
location and type of, and the number of the permit issued by the agency, or its
counterpart in another state, if applicable, for the processing or disposal
facility, excluding a transfer station, at which the waste will be deposited.
The collector shall note both the primary facility at which the collector most
often deposits waste and any alternative facilities regularly used by the
collector.
      (2)   A collector shall make the disclosure to the waste generator in
writing at least quarterly or on any written contract for collection service
for that year. If an additional facility becomes either a primary facility or
an alternative facility during the year, the collector shall make the
disclosure within 30 days.
      (3)   Haulers shall also supply to the Department copies of any
disclosure the hauler has provided to any generator under this section. The
hauler shall also provide on a monthly basis a completed copy of the load
reports for each load of mixed municipal solid waste collected within the
county, as described herein.
   (B)   A person hauling source-separated recyclable materials shall document
to the county the recycling facilities or end markets to which all materials
are delivered. This documentation shall be submitted on forms to be provided or
approved by the Department and shall include the presentation of weigh tickets
or other documentation that specifies the weight or volume of materials
accepted at the appropriate recycling facilities or end markets. Completed
forms shall be submitted to the Department on a monthly basis.
   (C)   No hauler shall collect or transport mixed municipal solid waste
generated in the county, unless the hauler has a valid base license and a valid
county operating license. On the expiration date of the current license, any
activity for which the license is required shall cease.
   (D)   The hauler shall submit a completed application to the base county on
forms provided by the base county. The hauler shall submit to the base county
all license application information necessary to obtain a base license and all
operating licenses. Information necessary to obtain base and operating licenses
shall be set forth on the application forms, as determined by the Department.
Applications which are not complete may be returned to the hauler. An
application will be deemed incomplete if information is omitted, incomplete,
inaccurate or non-compliant, or if required fees do not accompany the
application.
   (E)   If an application for a base or operating license is not complete or
otherwise does not conform to the requirements set forth in this chapter, the
Department shall notify the applicant, in writing, of the reasons for non-
acceptance and may request that the applicant resubmit, modify or otherwise
alter the application. The notification required in this section shall be
served upon the applicant by first class mail sent to the address provided on
the application form.
   (F)   The hauler shall pay to the base county all license fees for a base
license and all operating licenses issued pursuant to the regional hauler
licensing program. The license fees shall be established by the Regional Hauler
Licensing Board. No license fee shall be prorated for a portion of a license
term and no license fee shall be refunded.
   (G)   Complete applications submitted after the due dates specified herein
shall be subject to the following late fees:
      (1)   One to seven days late: 25% late fee.
      (2)   Eight to 30 days late: 50% late fee.
      (3)   Thirty-one or more days late: 100% late fee.
   (H)   Payment of the license fee together with payment of any late payment
penalty shall not bar other enforcement action by the county.
   (I)   Hauler license renewal applications must be submitted to the base
county by April 30 of the renewal year. A hauler license renewal application
received after April 30 shall be subject to a late fee.
   (J)   If the base county does not act on a license renewal application,
which is complete and submitted by June 30, the current base license an
operating licenses shall continue in force until the base county takes action
on the application. A reapplication shall also be accompanied by the late fees
imposed pursuant to division (H) above. If the Department fails to act within
60 days of receipt of a properly completed initial application or a renewal
application that is received after the due date, the applicant may request a
hearing on the application. The request for a hearing shall be governed hereby.
   (K)   If the Department denies a license to an applicant, the applicant
shall be notified of the denial in writing. The writing shall be served
personally or by certified mail upon the applicant at the address provided in
the application. The writing shall state the basis for the denial and shall
provide notice to the applicant that if an appeal is desired, a written request
for a hearing must be received by the Department within 15 calendar, 5 county
working, days following service of the denial, exclusive of the day of service.
Upon receipt of a request for hearing, the Department shall set a time and
place for the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted pursuant to the
procedures set forth herein.
   (L)   All base licenses and operating licenses are nontransferable.
   (M)   The license term shall be two years and shall begin July 1 of the
first year through June 30 of the second year as established by the Regional
Hauler Licensing Board.
   (N)   Base and operating licenses shall be issued by the Department
consistent with this chapter.
   (O)   All persons collecting mixed municipal solid waste in the county must
maintain records regarding each load collected and/or delivered. The required
information shall include but may not be limited to origin of waste, amount and
type by percentage. The information shall be recorded on load report forms that
are provided by the Department. The load reports shall be submitted to the
Department by the seventh day of the following month.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00; Am. Ord. 85-2018, passed 6-19-18)
§ 50.027 BASE LICENSE.
   (A)   A hauler which collects mixed municipal solid waste generated in the
county shall obtain and maintain a base license from the base county. A hauler
which collects or transports mixed municipal solid waste generated in any of
the counties shall obtain and maintain a base license from the county, if the
county is the hauler’s base county.
   (B)   All vehicles used by the hauler for the collection or transportation
of mixed municipal solid waste generated within the counties shall be included
in the hauler’s base license application.
   (C)   Each vehicle used by a hauler for the collection or transportation of
mixed municipal solid waste generated within the counties shall be identified
by a license decal issued for that vehicle during the current license term. The
hauler must affix the decal in a conspicuous place on the left side of the cab
of the vehicle for which it was issued as directed by the Department. The
hauler must maintain the license decal so that it is readily visible and
legible at all times. Any vehicle not bearing the required decal shall be
considered unlicensed. If a vehicle is put into service during the license
year, the hauler shall submit the required information for this vehicle to the
base county and shall not use the vehicle to collect or transport mixed
municipal solid waste within the counties until a decal has been issued and
affixed to the new vehicle.
   (D)   The hauler shall obtain and submit certificates of insurance issued by
insurers duly licensed by the state providing the following coverage, or a
self-insurance plan certified by the Department of Commerce for providing
equivalent coverage.
      (1)   Commercial general liability/professional liability with
contractual liability coverage in the amount of the counties tort liability
limits set forth in M.S. § 466.04 and as amended from time to time; and
      (2)   Automobile liability coverage in the amount of the counties tort
liability limits set forth in M.S. § 466.04 and as amended from time to time;
and
      (3)   Workers compensation insurance in statutory amount (if applicable).
   (E)   (1)   Nothing in this provision shall prohibit a hauler from providing
insurance with limits higher than the limits provided herein.
      (2)   All required policies shall name the Regional Hauler Licensing
Board, Anoka, Carver, Dakota, Hennepin, Ramsey, Scott and Washington Counties
as additional insureds. Before the license shall be issued, the licensee shall
agree to hold the additional insured harmless and shall agree to defend and
indemnify the additional insured, and the additional insured’s employees and
agents, for any claims, damages, losses, and expenses related to the work under
the license. The licensee’s contract of insurance shall be the primary
insurance for the additional insured and the licensee or insurance company
shall provide a certificate of insurance which verifies the existence of the
insurance required, including provisions to hold the additional insured
harmless and defend and indemnify the additional insured. All policies and
certificates shall be endorsed to require that the insurer provide at least a
60-day written notice to the county prior to the effective date of policy
cancellation, non-renewal or material adverse change in coverage terms. The
hauler shall maintain insurance in compliance with this paragraph throughout
the term of the base license.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00; Am. Ord. 85-2018, passed 6-19-18)
§ 50.028 OPERATING LICENSE.
   (A)   Any hauler which collects or transports mixed municipal solid waste in
the county must obtain and maintain an operating license from the county. A
hauler shall obtain and maintain a base license from the base county in order
to be eligible for an operating license. Suspension or revocation of a hauler’s
base license by the base county shall result in the summary suspension of the
hauler’s operating license issued by the county. Revocation or suspension of
the base license shall constitute sufficient basis for summary suspension of
the county operating license in accordance herewith.
   (B)   All vehicles used by the hauler for the collection or transportation
of mixed municipal solid waste within the county shall be included in the
hauler’s base license application to the base county. The hauler shall affix a
decal as required by the base county in a conspicuous place on the left side of
the cab of the vehicle for which it was issued as directly by the base county.
The hauler must maintain the license decal so that it is readily visible and
legible at all times. Any vehicle not bearing the required decal shall be
considered unlicensed.
   (C)   The business name and telephone number of the hauler shall be printed
or painted in legible characters on both sides of all vehicles or containers
used by the hauler to store, collect or transport mixed municipal solid waste
in the county. The characters shall be at least four inches in height for all
vehicles and at least two inches in height for all containers. This provision
shall not apply to containers owned and maintained by a solid waste generator.
   (D)   The issuance of an operating license shall be subject to the provision
of county ordinances and any other conditions set forth in this chapter or
established by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.029 DELIVERY REQUIREMENTS.
   As established in M.S. § 473.848, as it may be amended from time to time, a
person may not dispose of unprocessed MMSW at land disposal facilities in the
metropolitan area unless:
   (A)   The waste has been certified as unprocessable by the county;
   (B)   The waste has been transferred to the disposal facility from a
resource recovery facility;
   (C)   No resource recovery facility is capable of processing the waste; or
   (D)   The receiving resource recovery facility certifies the waste as
unprocessable.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.030 COLLECTION AND TRANSPORTATION FEES.
   (A)   A commercial hauler shall submit proposed residential rates for Board
approval at the time of his or her license issuance or annual re-issuance.
Rates and charges shall be volume-based for all customers including residential
customers. These rates must accurately reflect volume or weight based cost
differentials to haulers for their tip fee costs at disposal or processing
facilities.
   (B)   Commercial haulers must not impose greater charges on residents who
recycle than on those who do not recycle.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.031 ILLICIT COLLECTION.
   No person other than the licensed hauler authorized to collect and haul
source separated recyclable materials from a given property shall collect any
materials from the property. The owner or resident of the property is exempt
from this restriction.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.032 LICENSING AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS; CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Licensed haulers must comply with applicable local, state and federal
regulations along with all relevant MNDOT and MDH requirements regarding
equipment, operations and inspections.
   (B)   No hauler shall collect or transport construction/demolition waste
generated in the county unless the hauler has a valid county construction/
demolition operating license. On the expiration date of the current license,
any activity for which the license is required shall cease.
   (C)   (1)   The hauler shall submit to the county all license application
information necessary to obtain a construction/demolition operating license.
Information necessary to obtain a construction/demolition operating license
shall be set forth on the application form as determined by the Department.
      (2)   Applications which are not complete may be returned to the hauler.
An application will be deemed incomplete if information is omitted, incomplete,
inaccurate or noncompliant, or if required fees do not accompany the
application.
   (D)   If an application for a construction/demolition operating license is
not complete or otherwise does not conform to the requirements set forth in
this chapter, the Department shall notify the applicant, in writing, of the
reasons for non-acceptance and may request that the applicant resubmit, modify
or otherwise alter the application. The notification required in this section
shall be served upon the applicant by first class mail sent to the address
provided on the application form.
   (E)   The hauler shall pay to the county all license fees for a
construction/demolition operating licenses. License fees will not be required
for those trucks licensed under the regional mixed municipal solid waste
collection and transportation program. No license fee shall be prorated for a
portion of a year and no license fee shall be refunded.
   (F)   Payment of the license fee together with payment of any late payment
penalty shall not bar other enforcement action by the county.
   (G)   Hauler license renewal applications must be submitted to the county by
April 30 each year. A hauler license renewal application received after April
30 shall be subject to a late fee.
   (H)   If the county does not act on a license renewal application, which is
complete and submitted by April 30, the current construction/demolition
operating license shall continue in force until the county takes action on the
application. A license renewal shall also be accompanied by the late fees
imposed pursuant hereto. If the Department fails to act within 60 days of
receipt of a properly completed initial application or a renewal application
that is received after the due date, the applicant may request a hearing on the
application. The request for a hearing shall be governed hereby.
   (I)   If the county denies a license to an applicant, the applicant shall be
notified of the denial in writing. The writing shall be served personally or by
certified mail upon the applicant at the address provided in the application.
The writing shall state the basis for the denial and shall provide notice to
the applicant that if an appeal is desired, a written request for a hearing
must be received by the Department within 15 calendar days following service of
the denial, exclusive of the day of service. Upon receipt of a request for
hearing, the Department shall set a time and place for the hearing. The hearing
shall be conducted pursuant to the procedures set forth herein.
   (J)   All construction/demolition operating licenses are nontransferable.
   (K)   The license year shall be July 1 through June 30.
   (L)   Construction/demolition operating licenses shall be issued by the
Department consistent with this chapter.
   (M)   All persons collecting construction or demolition debris in the county
must maintain records regarding each load collected and/or delivered. The
required information shall include but may not be limited to origin of waste,
amount and type by percentage. The information shall be recorded on load report
forms that are provided by the Department. The load reports shall be submitted
to the Department by the seventh day of the following month.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.033 CONSTRUCTION/DEMOLITION DEBRIS LICENSE.
   (A)   A hauler which collects construction or demolition debris generated in
the county shall obtain and maintain a construction/demolition license.
   (B)   All vehicles used by the hauler for the collection or transportation
of construction or demolition waste generated within the county shall be
included in the hauler’s mixed municipal waste base license application or the
construction/demolition license.
   (C)   Each vehicle used by a hauler for the collection or transportation of
construction/demolition debris within the counties shall be identified by a
license decal issued for that vehicle during the current license year. The
hauler must affix the decal in a conspicuous place on the left side of the cab
of the vehicle for which it was issued as directed by the Department. The
hauler must maintain the license decal so that it is readily visible and
legible at all times. Any vehicle not bearing the required decal shall be
considered unlicensed. If a vehicle is put into service during the license
year, the hauler shall submit the required information for this vehicle to the
county and shall not use the vehicle to collect or transport construction/
demolition debris within the county until a decal has been issued and affixed
to the vehicle.
   (D)   The hauler shall obtain and submit certificates of insurance issued by
insurers duly licensed by the state providing the following coverage, or a
self-insurance plan certified by the State Commissioner of Commerce for
providing equivalent coverage:
      (1)   General liability coverage in the amount of $1,000,000 for bodily
injury per occurrence, $300,000 for property damage per occurrence, or
$1,000,000 combined single limit;
      (2)   Automobile liability coverage in the amounts of $1,000,000 for
property damage, $300,000 for bodily injury per person and $1,000,000 for
bodily injury per accident, or $1,000,000 combined single limit; and
      (3)   Workers compensation insurance, in accordance with M.S. Chapter
176, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Nothing in this provision shall prohibit a hauler from providing
insurance with limits higher than the limits provided herein. The county shall
be listed as additional insured. Before the license shall be issued, the
licensee shall agree to hold the additional insured harmless and shall agree to
defend and indemnify the additional insured, and the additional insured’s
employees and agents, for any claims, damages, losses, and expenses related to
the work under the license. The licensee’s contract of insurance shall be the
primary insurance for the additional insured and the licensee or insurance
company shall provide a certificate of insurance which verifies the existence
of the insurance required, including provisions to hold the additional insured
harmless and defend and indemnify the additional insured. All policies and
certificates shall be endorsed to require that the insurer provide at least a
60-day written notice to the county prior to the effective date of policy
cancellation, non-renewal or material adverse change in coverage terms. The
hauler shall maintain insurance in compliance with this division throughout the
term of the construction/demolition license.
   (F)   The issuance of an operating license shall be subject to the provision
of county ordinances and any other conditions set forth in this chapter or
established by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
SOLID WASTE FACILITIES
§ 50.045 FACILITIES COVERED.
   (A)   No person may operate one or more of the following types of
facilities, except as licensed by the county:
      (1)   Land disposal facilities:
         (a)   Mixed municipal solid waste;
         (b)   Demolition debris; and
         (c)   Industrial solid waste.
      (2)   MMSW processing and resource recovery facilities:
         (a)   Waste incinerators;
         (b)   Compost facilities; and
         (c)   Refuse derived fuel facilities.
      (3)   Transfer stations and canister systems;
      (4)   Recycling facilities;
      (5)   Household hazardous waste temporary storage facilities;
      (6)   Waste tire transfer and storage facilities;
      (7)   Waste tire processing facilities; and
      (8)   Yard waste composting sites.
   (B)   Land application sites for sludge or liquid wastes from industrial
processes, water supply treatment facilities or air treatment facilities shall
be licensed by the county. The county licensing procedures and operating
requirements for these types of sites are established herein.
   (C)   Solid waste management facilities not otherwise provided for in this
chapter must be licensed by the Board of Commissioners. Application and license
requirements shall be established by resolution of the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.046 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Publicly owned facilities. The Board may, by resolution, waive any of
the license requirements established in this chapter for publicly-owned
facilities.
   (B)   Farm generated concrete and reinforcing bar. The license requirements
established in this chapter do not apply to the burial of concrete and
reinforcing bar generated from the demolition of a building or structure
located on land used for farming, provided the requirements of §
50.071 are met.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00; Am. Ord. 74-2012, passed 6-19-12)
§ 50.047 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The required sequence for a person wishing to attain a solid waste
facility license from the Board is:
      (1)   Local zoning approval;
      (2)   Preliminary county approval through the procedure established in §
50.048;
      (3)   Agency approval; and
      (4)   All agency technical standards will apply for the county licensing
review and approval, except where requirements in this chapter are more
restrictive.
   (B)   Issuance or renewal of any license pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter shall be contingent upon the applicant furnishing to the county a bond
in an amount to be set by the Board. This bond shall name the county as obligee
with sufficient sureties duly licensed and authorized to transact business in
the state as sureties. The condition of the bond shall be that, if the licensee
fails to comply with any requirements or fails to perform any of the acts
required of a facility or ceases to operate a facility, any monies or expend
any labor or material to restore the operation or facility to a condition in
compliance with this chapter, the bond holder and the sureties on its bond
shall reimburse the county for any and all expenses incurred by the county to
remedy failure of the licensee to comply with the terms of this chapter, and
the bond holder and its sureties shall indemnify and save the county harmless
from all losses, costs and charges that may occur to the bond holder or its
sureties because of any default of the licensee under the terms of the bond
terms to operate in compliance with the terms of the ordinances of the county.
   (C)   Issuance or renewal of any license pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter shall be contingent upon the applicant securing insurance, and
furnishing to the county a copy of a certificate therefor, the following types
of insurance issued to the licensee by insurers duly licensed within the state
and in amounts to be set by the Board: general liability including, but not
limited to, bodily injury, property damage, motor vehicle or other insurance
such as workers compensation, required by state or county law. Before the
license shall be issued, the licensee shall agree to hold the additional
insured harmless and shall agree to defend and indemnify the additional
insured, and the additional insured’s employees and agents, for any claims,
damages, losses and expenses related to the work under the license. The
licensee’s contract of insurance shall be the primary insurance for the
additional insured and the licensee of insurance company shall provide a
certificate of insurance which verifies the existence of the insurance
required, including provisions to hold the additional insured harmless and
defend and indemnify the additional insured. The general liability insurance
shall be in at least the amount of $300,000 per claim with a maximum amount of
at least $1,000,000 for any number of claims in a single occurrence.
   (D)   Issuance or renewal of any license pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter shall be contingent upon the applicant paying the annual renewal fee
for that license in the amount set by the Board by resolution.
   (E)   Renewal of any license pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
shall be contingent upon the applicant submitting any information required in
the license application that has changed since the previous submittal or
additional information as may be required by the Department.
   (F)   Any license granted by the Board under the provisions of this chapter
may be suspended or revoked by the Board at any time for noncompliance with the
provisions of the license, this chapter or applicable state laws or rules, as
provided hereby.
   (G)   Routine inspection and evaluation of an operation shall be made by the
Department at a frequency as to ensure consistent compliance by the licensee
with the provisions of this chapter. The licensee shall be provided with a
written inspection report containing a precise description of any deficiencies,
recommendations for the correction thereof and the date when the corrections
shall be accomplished. Copies of the report shall be furnished to the agency.
The licensee shall allow to
authorized representatives of the county or the agency access to the facility
at any time for purpose of making inspections as may be necessary to determine
compliance with the requirements of this chapter, and any other applicable
statute, ordinance or rule.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.048 PRELIMINARY APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person wishing to submit an application for license of an MMSW
facility in the county must first submit the following information as a
preliminary application:
      (1)   Name and address of the project proposer and site selected for the
proposed project;
      (2)   Geographic area and population to be served by the proposed
project;
      (3)   A description of the process and expected life of the facility;
      (4)   The anticipated type, quantity and source of materials to be
handled in the proposed facility;
      (5)   A description of the residues or waste discharges from the proposed
facility and the environmental safeguards which will be incorporated into the
project;
      (6)   The anticipated hours of operation of the proposed facility and the
resulting truck traffic;
      (7)   A description of the adequacy of existing roadways to support the
proposed facility;
      (8)   A description of the availability or lack thereof of similar
facilities in the county or region and how the proposed facility will be
compatible with the county solid waste master plan; and
      (9)   Additional information as may be required by the Department.
   (B)   After receipt of a preliminary application, Department staff will
review the information and give a non-binding recommendation to the Board
concerning whether a final application should be made.
   (C)   If a negative determination is made, the applicant shall be notified
in writing of the reasons by the Board denied approval of the preliminary
application. A denial shall be without prejudice to the applicant’s right to an
appearance before the Board or to the applicant’s right to file a further
preliminary application after revisions are made to satisfy objections
specified as reasons for the denial.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.049 FINAL APPLICATION.
   (A)   Once a proposed project has received preliminary approval through the
preliminary application process described herein and has received approval from
the agency, the applicant for licensure of a solid waste facility must submit
three copies of the solid waste facility permit application documents prepared
for the agency permit or permit by rule process to the Department.
   (B)   Along with the agency permit application, the proposer must submit the
following items to the Department:
      (1)   An operating schedule;
      (2)   A schedule of fees to be charged at the facility;
      (3)   A notarized affidavit, signed by the proposer, stating that the
applicable local governments have been given at least 30 days’ notice of the
application for the facility license;
      (4)   A certificate from the county zoning or relevant City Administrator
that the proposed facility land use is in accordance with the established
county or city zoning ordinance;
      (5)   Sufficient documentation to enable the Board to determine whether
the applicant is financially and operationally capable to properly process the
projected waste types and amounts in the proposed facility;
      (6)   Monthly reports, provided by the county, shall be submitted to the
Department by the fifteenth day of the following month; and (The reports shall
include but may not be limited to the following information: total yards of
solid waste received, the tons of each solid waste component requiring
disposal, the name and type of each disposal or processing facility receiving
waste and the tons of recyclable materials collected and delivered to markets
or other recycling facilities.)
      (7)   Additional information as may be required by the Department.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.050 LAND DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   All agency design and operating requirements as established in the
applicable Minnesota Rules must be met for county licensing approval.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.051 WASTE COMBUSTORS.
   All agency design and operating requirements as established in the
applicable Minnesota Rules must be met for county licensing approval.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.052 MMSW COMPOST FACILITIES.
   All agency design and operating requirements as established in the
applicable Minnesota Rules must be met for county licensing approval.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.053 REFUSE DERIVED FUEL (RDF) FACILITIES.
   All agency design and operating requirements as established in the
applicable Minnesota Rules must be met for county licensing approval.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.054 TRANSFER STATIONS AND CANISTER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   The following information must be part of the documents submitted with
the final application for a transfer station facility:
      (1)   Facility design and layout, including equipment configuration;
      (2)   Storage capacity of the facility;
      (3)   Final disposal point of waste managed at the facility;
      (4)   On-site traffic patterns;
      (5)   Operating plan; and
      (6)   Recycling and composting areas and operations, if any.
   (B)   Transfer station and canister systems design and operations must
comply with agency requirements, as established in Minn. Rules Part 7035.2865,
as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.055 RECYCLING FACILITIES.
   (A)   All agency design and operating requirements as established in Minn.
Rules Part 7035.2845, as it may be amended from time to time, must be met for
county licensing approval.
   (B)   It will be a license requirement that the owner of a recycling
facility submit monthly documentation of the tonnage of materials processed and
marketed as part of that facility’s operations. The owner of a recycling
facility shall also submit the MPCA annual report for that facility to the
Department within 30 calendar days of submittal to the MPCA.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.056 HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE TEMPORARY STORAGE FACILITIES.
   All household hazardous waste collection, storage and management activities
must be in accordance with applicable agency rule requirements.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.057 WASTE TIRE TRANSFER AND STORAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   All applicable design and operating requirements as established in
Minn. Rules Parts 9220.0440 through 9220.0510, as they may be amended from time
to time, for waste tire transfer and storage facilities must be met for county
licensing approval and renewal.
   (B)   Proposers of waste tire transfer and storage facilities must submit
documentation which indicates the ultimate disposal points intended for the
accumulated tires.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.058 WASTE TIRE PROCESSING FACILITIES.
   (A)   All applicable design and operating requirements as established in
Minn. Rules Parts 9220.0440 through 9220.0510, as they may be amended from time
to time, for waste tire processing facilities must be met for county licensing
approval and renewal.
   (B)   Proposers of waste tire processing facilities must submit
documentation which indicates how the facility process product will be marketed
and/or utilized.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.059 YARD WASTE COMPOSTING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The following information must be part of the documents submitted with
the final application for a yard waste composting facility:
      (1)   Site location map indicating surrounding land use and contours;
      (2)   Site layout, including compost areas, traffic patterns, storage
areas and drainage;
      (3)   Operations plan;
      (4)   Compost product marketing plan; and
      (5)   Operating hours and anticipated fees.
   (B)   All agency design and operating requirements must be met for licensing
approval. Additional requirements are as follows:
      (1)   The compost site must have controlled access which will be closed
during nonoperating hours.
      (2)   The site must be regularly managed in a manner as to minimize
nuisance and odor problems.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.060 FINAL APPLICATION REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   After receipt of a final application, the Department shall review the
information and give their recommendation to the Board concerning whether a
license should be issued.
   (B)   (1)   A public hearing before the Board is required prior to the
issuance of a license for a solid waste facility, and that proceeding is
governed hereby.
      (2)   Notice of the time, place and proposed project shall be given by
publication in the official newspaper of the county at least ten days before
the hearing. Written notice shall be sent to property owners of record within
¼-mile of the project site, or to the ten properties nearest to the project
site, whichever would provide notice to the greatest number of property owners.
      (3)   Written notice shall also be given to the board of town supervisors
where the site is located, and the council of any municipality and/or town of
supervisors of another township within two miles of the proposed project site.
   (C)   The Board shall refuse to issue a license for any facility which does
not comply with county ordinance, state laws and rules and the county’s solid
waste master plan, as provided for in state statues. If a license application
is denied, the applicant shall be notified in writing of the reasons for a
determination. A denial shall be without prejudice to the applicant’s right to
an appearance before the Board or to the applicant’s right to file a further
final application after revisions are made to satisfy objections specified as
reasons for the denial.
   (D)   The Board shall either approve or deny a license application within 60
calendar days of receipt of the complete final license application.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
SPECIAL WASTES
§ 50.070 YARD WASTES.
   (A)   Yard waste may not be disposed of at a MMSW disposal or processing
facility, unless that facility has a designated yard waste compost area which
has been licensed by the county or has received an exemption from this
requirement from the agency and the county.
   (B)   License and operating requirements for yard waste composting sites are
established herein.
   (C)   Yard waste composting sites maintained by individual residents or
businesses for wastes generated solely from the residence or business occupying
the property the composting site is located on do not have to be licensed by
the county. However, the following requirements must be met:
      (1)   Compost sites must be maintained in an orderly and nuisance-free
manner.
      (2)   A compost pile may not be located less than five feet from a
property line of the property upon which the compost pile is operated. A
compost pile may not be located closer to the primary residential structure a
neighboring property than to the primary residential structure of the property
upon which the compost pile is operated.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.071 DEMOLITION DEBRIS.
   Licensing, design and operating requirements for demolition debris land
disposal facilities are established herein, except that a person may bury
concrete and reinforcing bar generated from the demolition of a building or
structure located on land used for farming provided that the following
requirements are met:
   (A)   A complete application and all applicable fees as per the county fee
schedule must be received and approved by the Department prior to burial of
concrete and reinforcing bar:
   (B)   The concrete and reinforcing bar must originate from a building or
structure located on land used for farming and shall not include concrete and
reinforcing bar from residential or commercial structures or activities;
   (C)   No other solid waste or other material governed by this chapter or
Minnesota Statutes may be buried;
   (D)   The application shall include an accurate description of the burial
site, the estimated amount of concrete and reinforcing bar to be buried, the
dimensions of the excavation including cover, a site restoration plan, and any
other information requested by the Department needed to review the application
due to site specific conditions;
   (E)   The burial site must be located on property classified as agricultural
land by the County Assessor's Office and on the same parcel of property as the
structure or building that the concrete and reinforcing bar was generated from;
   (F)   The burial site location must not be located within the boundaries of
any municipality, in any Transition Area, or Shoreland Impact Zone and shall
not be located within 50 feet of any wetland, floodplain, bluff, public right-
of-way or property line;
   (G)   At least three feet of cover must be placed over the concrete and
reinforcing bar and the site must be graded and restored to prevent erosion and
settling;
   (H)   The owner of the property must provide 48 hour notice to the
Department prior to the burial of the concrete and reinforcing bar and must
allow the Department access to the property to inspect the burial site prior to
covering:
   (I)   Pursuant to this chapter and M.S. § 17.135, within 90 days of
completion of the burial an affidavit containing a legal description of the
property and a map drawn from available information showing the boundary of the
property and the location of concrete and reinforcing bar buried on the
property shall be recorded with the County Recorder. The County Recorder will
record the affidavit required under this paragraph in a manner that ensures its
disclosure in the ordinary course of a title search of the subject property.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00; Am. Ord. 74-2012, passed 6-19-12)
§ 50.072 WASTE TIRES.
   (A)   All storage, transportation and processing of waste tires in the
county must comply with agency requirements. License requirements for waste
tire transfer and storage facilities are found herein. License requirements for
tire processing facilities are found herein.
   (B)   Tires may not be disposed of in land disposal facilities.
   (C)   Retailers generating more than 100 waste tires per year must keep logs
of amounts of tires generated and method used to dispose of those tires. Logs
must be periodically submitted to the agency for review.
   (D)   All properties being used to store more than ten used passenger tires
or the equivalent weight of other used tires must be permitted by the agency
with the following exemptions:
      (1)   Tire retail businesses which store no more than 500 waste tires on
the business’ premises;
      (2)   Retreading businesses which store no more than 3,000 waste tires on
the business’ premises;
      (3)   Businesses which routinely remove tires which store no more than
500 tires on the business’ premises; and
      (4)   Agency-permitted sanitary land disposal or transfer stations at
which no more than 10,000 waste tires are stored.
   (E)   (1)   A person using waste tires on an agricultural site for
legitimate agricultural purposes may accumulate more than 10 used tires
provided that specific approval is obtained from the county and that nuisance
and pollution problems do not occur or threaten to occur as a result of the
accumulation of these tires. Accumulation of more than 50 used tires shall
require approval by the Board of Commissioners. A person requesting approval
shall submit to the Department the reason for the accumulation, a description
of agricultural practice the tires are needed for, the number of tires needed
for the practice, a detailed description of the method and location that will
be used to store the tires to prevent nuisance and pollution problems from
occurring, and a plan for the proper management of the tires should the
practice be discontinued.
      (2)   Any tires stored as part of an agricultural operation must be
sliced to prevent collection of water or be stored in an enclosed structure.
   (F)   Any person who transports waste tires for hire is required to, have an
agency waste tire identification number which authorizes him or her to perform
this service. A transporter must submit quarterly reports to the agency
documenting quantity, source and disposal point of all tire loads. The
following are exempt from the requirement to have an agency identification
number and submit quarterly reports:
      (1)   A MMSW and/or source-separated recyclable materials hauler
transporting incidental quantities of waste tires;
      (2)   A person transporting ten or fewer waste tires;
      (3)   A person transporting tire-derived products to a market;
      (4)   A person transporting waste tires for agricultural purposes; and/or
      (5)   A business that generates and transports its own waste tires.
   (G)   No more than ten waste tires may be stored on a non-farm residential
lot. These tires must be stored in an enclosed structure.
   (H)   A business not directly related to tire sales or tire retreading may
not store more than 100 waste tires on the business premises.
   (I)   The owner of a property which is in violation of the terms of this
section must bring the property into compliance within one year of the
effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.073 HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTES.
   (A)   License requirements for household hazardous waste temporary storage
facilities are found herein.
   (B)   (1)   In accordance with M.S. § 116.07(4)(k), as it may be amended
from time to time, the owner of an MMSW disposal or processing facility must
generate a management plan for the separation of household hazardous waste from
MMSW prior to disposal or processing and for the proper disposal of the waste.
      (2)   The agency will not grant or renew a permit for a facility which
has not submitted a household hazardous waste management plan.
      (3)   This plan must include:
         (a)   Participation in public education activities on household
hazardous waste entering the facility;
         (b)   A strategy for reduction of household hazardous waste entering
the facility; and
         (c)   A plan for the storage and disposal of separated household
hazardous waste.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.074 MAJOR APPLIANCES.
   (A)   All handling, management and processing of major appliances must be in
accordance with agency rules and other provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   A person may not place major appliances in mixed municipal waste or
dispose of them in a MMSW processing or disposal facility.
   (C)   The following are required to remove and recycle, destroy or properly
dispose of chloroflurocarbons or CFC’s:
      (1)   Processors of scrap refrigerators, central air conditioning units
and freezers; and
      (2)   Servicers of in-use refrigerators, central air conditioning units
and freezers.
   (D)   A person who removes, stores or transports capacitors is considered a
PCB generator and must obtain an EPA hazardous waste generator identification
number.
   (E)   A person processing major appliances must be either be:
      (1)   A salvage yard operator licensed under
Chapter 151 of this code; and/or
      (2)   A major appliance retailer and/or wholesaler.
   (F)   (1)   No more than 50 scrap major appliances may be stockpiled per
parcel of land for persons who process major appliances as a business
operation. These stockpiles may not be visible from the nearest roadway.
      (2)   No more than five major appliances may be stockpiled per parcel of
land for persons who do not process major appliances as a business operation.
These stockpiles may not be visible from the nearest roadway and may not create
public health or nuisance problems.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.075 INFECTIOUS WASTES.
   (A)   All storage and handling of infectious waste materials must be in
accordance with state requirements, as established in M.S. §§ 116.75 to 116.83
and Minn. Rules Parts 7035.9100 to 7035.9150, as they may be amended from time
to time.
   (B)   Infectious waste generators must separate infectious waste from the
rest of the waste stream and ensure that this infectious waste is properly
containerized. Infectious waste generators must prepare infectious waste
management plans to be submitted to the State Department of Health.
   (C)   Commercial haulers of infectious wastes must be licensed with MNDOT
and the MDH. Commercial haulers of infectious waste must prepare infectious
waste management plans to be submitted to the MDH.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.076 INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   As is required in Minn. Rules Part 7001.3300, as it may be amended from time
to time, all MMSW processing, disposal and transfer facilities must have
industrial waste management plans.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.077 BATTERIES.
   (A)   All storage, handling and disposal of batteries must be in accordance
with state rules and statutes.
   (B)   (1)   Lead acid batteries may not be disposed of in mixed municipal
solid waste. Violation is a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Dry cell batteries containing mercuric oxide, silver oxide or
nickel cadmium are recyclable and may not be disposed of in municipal solid
waste.
   (C)   A retail establishment which sells lead acid batteries must accept
used lead acid batteries from consumers at no charge. Consumers may not deliver
more than five lead acid batteries to an establishment at one time.
   (D)   A consumer purchasing a lead acid battery without a used lead acid
battery to return at the point of sale must pay a surcharge of $5 as part of
the purchase. This surcharge will be refunded to the consumer should the
consumer return a used lead acid battery within 30 days of the initial
purchase.
   (E)   A lead acid batteries retailer must recycle batteries collected from
consumers. Any outlet failing to recycle these batteries is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.090 MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Board may waive or modify the strict application of the provisions
of this chapter by reducing or waiving certain requirements when the
requirements are unnecessary or impractical, or by imposing additional
requirements when the requirements necessary to reduce risk of harm to persons,
property or the environment.
   (B)   No modification or waiver may be granted if it would result in
noncompliance with Minn. Rules applicable to the operation of the facility or
activity, unless the modification or waiver has been approved or granted by the
agency.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.091 CITATION AUTHORITY.
   (A)   A notice of violation or a warning letter, as defined, may be issued
to a person alleged to have committed a violation hereof, prior to issuance of
a citation.
   (B)   An authorized representative of the Department shall have the power to
issue citations for violations of this chapter, but shall not be permitted to
physically arrest or take into custody any violator, except on a warrant duly
issued.
      (1)   Citations shall be issued to the person alleged to have committed
the violation either by personal delivery or by registered or certified mail.
In case of public, private or municipal corporation, the citation shall be
issue to any officer or agent, expressly or impliedly authorized to accept the
issuance.
      (2)   Citations shall be made out in quadruplicate. One copy shall be
issued to the person alleged to have committed the violation; one copy shall be
filed with the Department; one copy shall be filled with the County Attorney’s
Office; one copy shall be filed with the District Court, First Judicial
District.
      (3)   Citations shall be on forms as approved by the Department and shall
contain at least the following:
         (a)   The name and address of the person alleged to have committed the
violation and, when known, the owner or person in charge of the premises at
which the violation occurs;
         (b)   The date and place of violation;
         (c)   A short description of the violation followed by reference to
the section of this chapter violated;
         (d)   The name of person issuing the citation;
         (e)   The date and place at which the person receiving the citation
shall appear and a notice that if the person does not respond, a warrant may be
issued for the person’s arrest;
         (f)   Other information, as the court may specify.
      (4)   The person charged with the violation shall appear at the place and
on the date specified in the citation and either:
         (a)   Pay the fine assigned to the violation; or
         (b)   Schedule a court date for a hearing on the citation.
      (5)   If the person charged with the violation fails to appear as
required by the citation, the citation shall be referred to the County
Attorney’s Office.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.092 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license required under this chapter may be suspended by the Board
for violation of any provision of this chapter. Upon written notice to the
licensee the license may be suspended by the Board for a period not longer than
60 days or until the violation is corrected.
   (B)   The suspension shall not occur earlier than ten county working days
after written notice of suspension has been served on the licensee or, if a
hearing is requested, until written notice of the Board action has been served
on the licensee. Notice to the licensee shall be served personally or by
registered or certified mail at the address designated in the license
application. The written notice of suspension shall contain the effective date
of the suspension, the nature of the violation or violations constituting the
basis for the suspension, the facts which support the conclusion that a
violation or violations has occurred, and a statement that if a licensee
desires to appeal, he or she must, within ten county working days exclusive of
the day of service, file a request for a hearing. The hearing request shall be
in writing stating the grounds for appeal and served personally or by
registered or certified mail on the Department by midnight of the tenth county
working day following service. Following receipt of a request for a hearing,
the Department shall set a time and place for the hearing.
   (C)   If the suspension is upheld and the licensee has not demonstrated
within the 60-day period that the provisions of the chapter have been complied
with, the Board may serve notice of continued suspension for up to 60 days or
initiate revocation procedures.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.093 SUMMARY SUSPENSION.
   (A)   (1)   If the Department finds that the public health, safety or
welfare imperatively requires emergency action, and incorporates a finding to
that effect in its order, summary suspension of a license may be ordered by the
Department upon notification of the County Attorney’s Office and the Board,
subject to Board ratification at its next meeting. Written notice of the
summary suspension shall be served personally or by registered or certified
mail to the licensee at the address designated in the license application.
      (2)   In addition, the Department may post copies of the notice of
summary suspension of the license on the licensed facility or property being
used for the licensed activity. The posting shall constitute the notice
required under this section.
   (B)   The written notice in such cases shall state the effective date of the
suspension, the nature of the violation or violations requiring emergency
action, the facts which support the conclusion that a violation or violations
has occurred and a statement that if the licensee desires a hearing that he or
she must, within ten county working days exclusive of the day of service, file
a request for a hearing. The hearing request shall be in writing stating the
grounds for appeal and served personally or by registered or certified mail on
the Department by midnight of the tenth county working day following service.
Following receipt of a request for an appeal, the Department shall set a time
and a place for the hearing.
   (C)   The summary suspension shall not be stayed pending an appeal or
informal review by the department head, but shall be subject to dismissal on a
favorable reinspection by the Department.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.094 SUSPENSION REINSPECTION.
   (A)   Upon written notification from the licensee that all the violations
for which a suspension or summary suspension was invoked have been corrected,
the Department shall reinspect the facility or activity within a reasonable
length of time, but in no case more than three county working days after
receipt of the notice from the licensee.
   (B)   If the Department finds upon reinspection that the violations
constituting the grounds for the suspension have been corrected, the Department
shall immediately dismiss the suspension, subject to Board ratification at its
next meeting, by written notice to the licensee, served personally or by
registered or certified mail at the address designated in the license
application.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.095 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Any license granted pursuant to this chapter may be revoked by the
Board for violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Revocation shall not occur earlier than ten county working days
from the time that written notice of the revocation is served on the licensee
or, if a hearing is requested, until written notice of the Board action has
been served on the licensee. Notice to the licensee shall be served personally
or by registered or certified mail at the address designated in the license
application. The written notice of revocation shall contain the effective date
of the revocation the nature of the violation or violations constituting the
basis for the revocation, the facts which support the conclusion that a
violation or violations has occurred, and a statement that if the licensee
desires to appeal, he or she must within ten working days, exclusive of the day
of service, file a request for a hearing.
      (2)   The hearing request shall be in writing stating the grounds for
appeal and served personally or by registered or certified mail on the
Department by midnight of the tenth county working day following service.
Following receipt of a request for a hearing, the Department shall set a time
and a place for the hearing.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.096 HEARINGS.
   (A)   If any applicant or licensee properly requests a hearing on a denial,
suspension or revocation of license, or denial of a variance, the hearing shall
be held before the Board, or a hearing examiner as provided below, and shall be
open to the public.
   (B)   Unless an extension of time is requested by the appellant in writing
directed to the chair of the Board and is granted, the hearing will be held no
later than 45 calendar days after the date of service of request for a hearing,
exclusive of the date of the service. In any event, the hearing shall be held
no later than 90 calendar days after the date of service of request for a
hearing, exclusive of the date of the service.
   (C)   The Board shall mail the notice of the hearing to the appellant and to
the Department at least 15 working days prior to the hearing. The notice shall
include:
      (1)   A statement of time, place and nature of the hearing;
      (2)   A statement of the legal authority and jurisdiction under which the
hearing is to be held; and
      (3)   A reference to the particular section of the ordinance and rules
involved.
   (D)   The Board may by resolution appoint an individual, to be known as the
hearing examiner, to conduct the hearing and to make findings of fact,
conclusions and recommendations to the Board. The hearing examiner shall submit
the findings of fact, conclusions and recommendations to the Board in a written
report, and the Board may adopt, modify or reject the report.
   (E)   The applicant or licensee may be represented by counsel. The
Department, the licensee or applicant, and additional parties, as determined by
the county Board or hearing examiner, in that order, shall present evidence.
All testimony shall be sworn under oath. All parties shall have full
opportunity to respond to and present evidence, cross examine witnesses and
present argument. The Board or hearing examiner may also examine witnesses.
   (F)   The Department shall have the burden of proving its position by
preponderance of the evidence, unless a different burden is provided by
substantive law, and all findings of fact, conclusions and decisions by the
Board shall be based on evidence presented and matters officially noticed.
   (G)   All evidence which possesses probative value, including hearsay, may
be admitted if it is the type of evidence on which prudent persons are
accustomed to rely in the conduct of their serious affairs. Evidence which is
incompetent, irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious may be excluded. The
hearing shall be confined to matters raised in the Department’s written notice
of suspension, summary of suspension or termination or in the appellants
written request for a hearing.
   (H)   At the written request of any party, or upon motion of the Board or
hearing examiner, a pre- hearing conference shall be held. The prehearing
conference shall be conducted by the hearing examiner, if the Board has chosen
to use one, or by a designated representative of the Board. The pre- hearing
conference shall be held no later than five county working days before the
hearing. The purpose of the pre-hearing conference is to:
      (1)   Clarify the issues to be determined at the hearing;
      (2)   Provide an opportunity for discovery of all relevant documentary,
photographic or other demonstrative evidence in the possession of each party;
and (The hearing examiner or Board’s representative may require each party to
supply a reasonable number of copies of relevant evidence capable of
reproduction.)
      (3)   Provide an opportunity for discovery of the full name and address
of all witnesses who will be called at the hearing and a brief description of
the facts and opinions to which each is expected to testify. If the names and
addresses are not known, the party shall describe them thoroughly by job duties
and involvement with the facts in issue.
   (I)   If a pre-hearing conference is held, evidence not divulged as provided
above shall be excluded at the hearing unless the party advancing the evidence
took all reasonable steps to divulge it to the adverse party prior to the
hearing and:
      (1)   The evidence was not known to the party at the time of the pre-
hearing conference; or
      (2)   The evidence is in rebuttal to matters raised for the first time at
or subsequent to the pre- hearing conference.
   (J)   If the applicant or licensee fails to appear at the hearing, he or she
shall forfeit any right to a public hearing before the Board or hearing
examiner.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as where separately provided for in this chapter or state
statutes, any person who fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter is
guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   In the event of a violation or a threat of violation of this chapter,
the county may institute appropriate actions or proceedings, including
injunctive relief to prevent, restrain, correct or abate the violations or
threatened violations. The county may recover costs incurred for corrective
action in a civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction or, at the
discretion of the County Board, the costs may be certified to the County
Auditor as a special tax against the real property.
(Ord. 4C, passed 11-14-00)
CHAPTER 51: HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Purpose
   
51.02   Authority
   
51.03   Definitions
   
51.04   Compliance
   
51.05   General conditions
   
51.06   False information
   
51.07   Waste classification
   
51.08   Right of entry
   
51.09   Standards for preservation
   
51.10   Minimal generators
   
51.11   Special hazardous waste
   
51.12   Universal waste
Licensing Requirements
   
51.20   License required
   
51.21   Licensing not exclusive
   
51.22   Fees
   
51.23   Minimal generators
   
51.24   License term
   
51.25   License application
   
51.26   Termination of operation
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.40   Modifications
   
51.41   Authorities of the Department
   
51.42   Inspection
   
51.43   Orders and notices
   
51.44   Compliance
   
51.45   Citation authority
   
51.46   Suspension of license
   
51.47   Summary suspension
   
51.48   Suspension reinspections
   
51.49   Revocation of license
   
51.50   Hearings
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to establish rules, regulations
and standards for hazardous waste management in the county for the
identification, labeling and classification of hazardous wastes; the handling,
collection, transportation and storage of hazardous waste; the treatment,
processing and/or disposal of hazardous waste; the requirement of licensing of
hazardous waste generators and hazardous waste facilities; the payment of
license fees; the penalties for failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter; the issuing, denying, modifying, imposing conditions upon, suspending,
revoking licenses and other matters as determined to be necessary for the
health, welfare and safety of the public. Further, this chapter shall be
liberally construed so as to protect the natural environment from hazardous
waste contamination.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.02 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to M.S. Chapters 145A and 473, as they may
be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency or MPCA.
   CIRCUIT BOARDS. Electrical panels consisting of fiberglass, a paper and
epoxy blend, or other inert material and electrical conductors, traces or
foils. CIRCUIT BOARDS shall include circuit board trimmings.
   CIRCUIT BOARD TRIMMINGS. The pieces, including dust particles, that are
trimmed off of circuit boards during the routing or punching process in order
to make the boards the proper size for use.
   COUNTY BOARD. The Carver County Board of Commissioners.
   DEPARTMENT. The Carver County Environmental Services Department.
   ELECTRONIC COMPONENT. Subassemblies or other parts derived from the
disassembly of electronic devices, which exhibit the toxicity characteristic of
Minn. Rules 7045.0131. ELECTRONIC COMPONENT shall include circuit boards.
   ELECTRONIC DEVICE. Electronic component that contains one or more electronic
circuit boards, cathode ray tubes, or other circuitry or parts that exhibit the
toxicity characteristic under Minn. Rules 7045.0131.
   ELECTRONICS. Electronic components and electronic devices.
   EMBARGO. An order by the Department prohibiting the movement, removal,
transport, use, treatment or disposal of a material which is, or is suspected
to be, a hazardous waste and which is being mismanaged, or which the Department
has reason to suspect is being, or will be managed in violation of this
chapter.
   FACILITY. The meaning in Minn. Rules Part 7045.0020, subpart 24 and shall
also include transfer facilities and facilities that collect for treatment,
storage or disposal special hazardous waste, universal waste, appliances,
recyclable fuel, used oil or waste contaminated with used oil.
   GENERATOR. The meaning in Minn. Rules Part 7045.0020, subpart 31 and shall
include any person, by site, whose act or process produces a universal waste or
special hazardous waste or whose act first causes a universal waste or special
hazardous waste to become subject to regulation.
   HAZARDOUS BUILDING COMPONENTS. Materials and articles containing cadmium,
lead, mercury, oil, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), or refrigerants; asbestos
containing materials; or other items posing risk to humans or the environment
including, but not limited to, fluorescent and high intensity discharge lamps;
neon lighting; lighting ballasts (both PCB and non-PCB containing ballasts);
electrical capacitors; batteries, circuit boards; appliances; components of
heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) systems that contain the above
referenced materials; and thermometers, gauges, switches and relays containing
mercury. Wastes included in this definition that are regulated by Minn. Rules
Chapters 7000 through 7150 and C.F.R. Title 40 shall be regulated by those
rules, as applicable.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any refuse, sludge or other waste material or combinations
of refuse, sludge or other waste materials in solid, semisolid, liquid or
contained gaseous form which, because of its quantity, concentration or
chemical, physical or infectious characteristics, may cause or significantly
contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible
or incapacitating reversible illness or pose a substantial present or potential
hazard to human health or the environment when improperly treated, stored,
transported or disposed of, or otherwise managed. Categories of HAZARDOUS WASTE
materials include, but are not limited to, explosives, flammables, oxidizers,
poisons, irritants and corrosives. HAZARDOUS WASTE does not include source,
special nuclear or by-product material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of
1954, as amended.
   MINIMAL GENERATOR. Any very small quantity generator who generates one or
more of only the following wastes:
      (1)   Ten gallons or less per year of hazardous waste that is not acutely
toxic, as defined by Minn. Rules Part 7045.0020(3)(a), as it may be amended
from time to time;
      (2)   Any amount of used oil, waste contaminated with used oil, used oil
filters or petroleum fuel filters;
      (3)   Any amount of lead acid batteries managed under Minn. Rules Part
7045.0685;
      (4)   Universal waste and special hazardous wastes as defined by this
chapter;
      (5)   Any amount of photographic fixer solution which is shipped off-site
for recycling;
      (6)   Any amount of photographic fixer solution if treated to remove 80%
of the hazardous constituents; or
      (7)   Any amount of fuel/water mixtures and fuel tank filters that are
not stored or accumulated on site.
   NOTICE OF VIOLATION. A formal written notice issued by the Department to
notify a party that he or she is in violation of a county chapter. This notice
will inform the party of the alleged violations, the nature and extent of the
violations, and the required corrective actions. The NOTICE OF VIOLATION shall
also specify additional actions that will be taken by the Department, such as
the inclusion of NOV orders into a final order or consent order and/or the
issuance of a citation, as well as specific time frames in which these actions
will be completed.
   PERSON. Any human being, any municipality or other governmental or political
subdivision or other public agency, any public or private corporation, any
partnership, firm, association or other organization, any receiver, trustee,
assignee, agent or other legal representative of any of the foregoing, or any
other legal entity.
   SPECIAL HAZARDOUS WASTE. Shall include the following hazardous wastes:
      (1)   Photographic and x-ray negatives and paper which exhibit the
toxicity characteristic under Minn. Rules Part 7045.0131;
      (2)   Electronics as defined by this chapter.
   WARNING LETTER. A written notice issued by the Department to notify a party
that he or she is in violation of a county chapter. If a WARNING LETTER is
issued, it shall be utilized as the initial county notification of alleged
violations, except in cases of imminent threat to the public health and safety
of the environment. The WARNING LETTER will inform the party of the alleged
violations, the nature and extent of the violations, and the required
corrective actions.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.04 COMPLIANCE.
   No person shall cause or permit the generation, transportation, disposal or
processing of hazardous waste or the construction or operation of hazardous
waste facilities, except in full compliance with the provisions of this
chapter, including, but not limited to all provisions requiring full disclosure
of information regarding the generation, transportation, disposal or
processing.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.05 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The Department may impose conditions on any license, permit or
variance as deemed reasonably necessary to monitor the operation and ensure the
public health and safety and to protect the environment.
   (B)   Violation of any condition imposed by the county on a license, permit
or variance shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.06 FALSE INFORMATION.
   Omission of any information or submission of false information may be deemed
a violation of this chapter or may be deemed a violation of state or federal
law.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.07 WASTE CLASSIFICATION.
   In the event the agency modifies the lists of wastes by listing or
delisting, or classifies a waste as hazardous, the Board may, by resolution,
amend the lists of wastes set forth in this chapter, or classify certain wastes
as hazardous, to incorporate agency action.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.08 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Whenever necessary to perform an inspection, to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Department has reasonable cause to
believe that hazardous waste exists in any building or upon any premises, the
Department or its authorized agent may enter the building or premises at all
reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon the
Department by this chapter, provided that if the building or premises be
occupied, the authorized agent shall first present proper credentials and
demand entry; and if the building or premises be unoccupied, the Department
shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons
having charge or control of the building or premises and demand entry.
   (B)   If the entry is refused, the Department shall have recourse to every
remedy provided by law to secure entry including administrative search
warrants. If the owner or other person having control of the premises has
threatened an authorized agent of the Department with refusal to allow the
Department entry at any future date, the Department shall document said refusal
and may obtain an administrative search warrant without demanding entry on the
future date.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.09 STANDARDS FOR PRESERVATION.
   (A)   Minn. Rules Chapter 7045, except for Minn. Rules Parts 7045.1000
through 7045.1030 inclusive, as it may be amended from time to time, relating
to hazardous waste, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
chapter. Adoption of the state rules into this chapter does not relieve
regulated parties from full compliance with requirements as they also apply to
the state or federal entities specified in the state rules. Regulated parties
must obtain required approvals and submit necessary information to the
appropriate state or federal authorities as well as to the county.
   (B)   Any amendments, modifications or deletions are hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated as if set in full herein.
   (C)   Standards amended. The above adopted rules are hereby amended as
follows:
      (1)   Wherever the term MINNESOTA POLLUTION CONTROL AGENCY, POLLUTION
CONTROL AGENCY or AGENCY appears in these adopted rules it shall mean the
DEPARTMENT, except in Minn. Rules Parts 7045.0020 subparts 4, 9c and 73h;
7045.0070; 7045.0075; 7045.0080; 7045.0090 when referenced by 7045.0545,
7045.0546, 7045.0547 and 7045.0548; 7045.0125, subpart 9, item D; 7045.0129;
7045.0133; 7045.0135, subpart 1, paragraph 3; 7045.0139; 7045.0218; 7045.0243,
subpart 3, item D; 7045.0261, subpart 5, item B and subpart 6; 7045.0275,
subpart 2; 7045.0302; 7045.0361; 7045.0395; 7045.0397; 7045.0450, subpart 1;
7045.0452, subpart 2; 7045.0468, subpart 2; 7045.0498 through 7045.0524;
7045.0546; 7045.0552, subpart 3 item A; 7045.0554; 7045.0556, subpart 2;
7045.0574, subpart 2; 7045.0608 through 7045.0624; 7045.0655, subpart 1; and
where used with ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, or FEDERAL OR STATE AGENCY,
where they shall remain unchanged.
      (2)   Wherever the term COMMISSIONER appears in these adopted rules, it
shall mean DEPARTMENT except in Minn. Rules Parts 7045.0020, subpart 6a, item
B, subparts 9c, 13a, 43.b, 73h, and 85a; 7045.0075; 7045.0080; 7045.0090 when
referenced by 7045.0545, 7045.0546, 7045.0547 and 7045.0548; 7045.0125, subpart
4, item N and subpart 9, item D; 7045.0129; 7045.0131, subparts 1 and 7;
7045.0218; 7045.0261, subpart 9; 7045.0265; 7045.0294, subpart la, item B;
7045.0302; 7045.0310, subpart 3, items B, C and D, and subpart 5, item C;
7045.0320, subparts 9 and 10; 7045.0474; 7045.0476, subpart 3, item A;
7045.0498 through 7045.0524; 7045.0528, subpart 4, item D(4) and subpart 8,
item D(1); 7045.0545, subparts 1 through 7; 7045.0546; 7045.0580; 7045.0582,
subpart 3, item A; 7045.0608 through 7045.0624; 7045.0628, subpart 4, item D
(4); 7045.0652, subpart 2, item B; 7045.0686; 7045.0875, subpart 8, item B;
7045.0990; 7045.1309; 7045.1315, subpart 2, item G; 7045.1360, where it shall
remain unchanged.
      (3)   Wherever the term PERMIT, PERMITEE, PERMITTING or PERMITTED appears
in these adopted rules, it shall mean LICENSE, LICENSEE, LICENSING or LICENSED
except in Minn. Rules Parts 7045.0020, subpart 10b, subpart 15, item A(4),
subpart 23a, subpart 24, item B, and subpart 58a; 7045.0121, subpart 2, item D;
7045.0208, subpart 2, item C; 7045.0210; 7045.0261, subparts 2, 5, and 6;
7045.0310, subpart 3, item D and subpart 6, item D; 7045.0320, subpart 9, item
C; 7045.0397; 7045.0450, subpart 1; 7045.0498 through 7045.0524; 7045.0545,
subparts 5 and 7; 7045.0546; 7045.0552, subpart 2; 7045.0554, subpart 1;
7045.0608 through 7045.0624; 7045.0790, subpart 7; 7045.1380, subpart 1, item
A; and where used with NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT,
NPDES PERMIT, STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM PERMIT, EMISSION FACILITY OPERATING PERMIT,
PERMIT-BY-RULE, or AIR QUALITY PERMIT, where they shall remain unchanged.
      (4)   The terms MINNESOTA or STATE OF MINNESOTA shall mean COUNTY OF
CARVER in Minn. Rules Parts 7045.0210; 7045.0212; 7045.0214; 7045.0240;
7045.0261, subpart 5 and subpart 6 (except the phrases SPECIFIC MINNESOTA and
IN MINNESOTA which shall remain unchanged); 7045.0302, subpart 1; 7045.0351,
subpart 1; 7045.0355 and 7045.0361.
      (5)   Minn. Rules Part 7045.0020, subpart 66 is deleted in its entirety.
      (6)   Minn. Rules Part 7045.0060 is amended to read as follows:
      "No variance may be granted if granting the variance would result in
noncompliance with Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations and
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) rules for the generation, storage,
processing, treatment, transportation or disposal of hazardous waste or the
operation of hazardous waste facilities."
      (7)   Minn. Rules Part 7045.0225, subpart 1 is amended by deleting the
last two sentences in their entirety.
      (8)   The first paragraph of Minn. Rules Part 7045.0230, subpart 1 is
amended to read:
      "Information required. An application must be on a form provided by the
Department and must include the following information".
       (9)   Minn. Rules Part 7045.0230, subpart 1a is deleted in its entirety.
      (10)   Minn. Rules Part 7045.0240 is amended by the deletion of the
second sentence in subpart 3.
      (11)   Minn. Rules Part 7045.0243 is amended by the deletion of subpart 1
and subpart 3, item C.
      (12)   The first paragraph of Minn. Rules Part 7045.0248, subpart 1 is
amended to read as follows:
      "A licensed generator must submit a license renewal application to the
Department on forms provided by the Department. A generator must submit the
application and report by the January 31 preceding the expiration of the
generator license. The application must contain the following information for
each hazardous waste produced during the preceding calendar year:".
       (13)   Minn. Rules Part 7045.0248, subpart 1, item B is deleted in its
entirety.
      (14)   Minn. Rules Part 7045.0250 is deleted in its entirety.
      (15)   Minn. Rules Part 7045.0261, subpart 5 is amended to read as
follows:
         "Subpart 5.   Permitted facilities. The facilities shall be licensed
or permitted by:
            A.   the department if the hazardous waste facility is located
within Carver County in Minnesota; or
            B.   the state agency with a hazardous waste program authorized by
the EPA pursuant to Code of Federal Regulations, title 40, part 271 (1983); or
            C.   the EPA; or
            D.   having interim status."
      (16)   Minn. Rules Part 7045.0261 subpart 9 is amended to read as
follows:
         "Subpart 9. Number of copies. The manifest must consist of at least
the number of copies which will provide the generator, each transporter, and
the owner or operator of the designated facility with one copy each for their
records, another copy to be returned to the generator by the facility, and the
required copies to be returned to the commissioner or to the Hazardous Waste
Manifest Program, pursuant to parts 7045.0265, 7045.0474, subpart 2, item D;
and 7045.0580, subpart 2, item D, and any additional copies required by the
generator's or designated facility's state, if other than Minnesota. Copies to
be returned to the commissioner shall be sent to: Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency, Hazardous Waste Division, 520 Lafayette Road, Saint Paul, Minnesota
55155, Attention: HWIMS. Copies to be returned to the Hazardous Waste Manifest
Program shall be sent to: Hazardous Waste Manifest Program, Mail Code L609, 300
S 6th Street, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55487."
      (17)   Minn. Rules Part 7045.0265 subpart 1D is amended to read as
follows:
         "D. send one copy to the commissioner within five working days of the
initial transporter's acceptance of the hazardous waste shipment if the
generator is a large quantity or small quantity generator. Send one copy to the
Hazardous Waste Manifest Program if the generator is a very small quantity
generator."
      (18)   Minn. Rules Part 7045.0265 subpart 2B is amended to read as
follows:
         "B. send one copy to the commissioner within five working days of the
initial transporter's acceptance of the hazardous waste shipment if the
generator is a large quantity or small quantity generator. Send one copy to the
Hazardous Waste Manifest Program if the generator is a very small quantity
generator."
      (19)   Minn. Rules Part 7045.0265 subpart 3B is amended to read as
follows:
         "B. send one copy to the commissioner within five working days of the
initial transporter's acceptance of the hazardous waste shipment if the
generator is a large quantity or small quantity generator. Send one copy to the
Hazardous Waste Manifest Program if the generator is a very small quantity
generator."
      (20)   Minn. Rules Part 7045.0265 subpart 4A is amended to read as
follows:
         "A. the copy of the hazardous waste manifest signed by the facility
operator is sent to the commissioner within 40 days of the acceptance of the
hazardous waste by the hazardous waste facility if the generator is a large
quantity or small quantity generator. The copy of the hazardous waste manifest
signed by the facility operator is sent to the Hazardous Waste Manifest Program
within 40 days of the acceptance of the hazardous waste by the hazardous waste
facility if the generator is a very small quantity generator; and".
      (21)   In Minn. Rules Part 7045.0292, subparts 1, 5, 6 and 8, the phrase
"without a permit" is amended to read "without a facility permit". The word
"permit" in these references remains unchanged.
      (22)   The first paragraph of Minn. Rules Part 7045.0302, subpart 2 is
amended to read as follows:
         "Subpart 2. Notification. When shipping hazardous waste outside the
state of Minnesota to a foreign country, the primary exporter must notify the
Commissioner, the Department and the EPA of an intended export before the waste
is scheduled to leave the United States. A complete notification should be
submitted sixty (60) days before the initial shipment is intended to be shipped
off site. This notification may cover export activities extending over a 12-
month or lesser period. The notification must be in writing, signed by the
primary exporter and include the following information:".
      (23)   Minn. Rules Part 7045.0460, subpart 1, item A is amended to read
as follows:
         "A. Procedures are in effect which will cause the waste to be removed
safely before floodwaters can reach the facility to a location where the wastes
will not be vulnerable to floodwaters. The location to which wastes are moved
must be a facility which is either licensed by this Department, or permitted by
the Environmental Protection Agency, or by a state with a hazardous waste
management program authorized by the Environmental Protection Agency, or which
has interim status.".
      (24)   The term "in Chapter 7001" is deleted wherever it appears.
      (25)   The phrase "under chapter 7046" is deleted wherever it appears.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.10 MINIMAL GENERATORS.
   (A)   (1)   Minimal generators must manage their hazardous waste according
to all applicable rules and regulations of the EPA, the state and county.
      (2)   (a)   Minimal generators who fail to comply with the waste
management requirements of this chapter may, at the discretion of the
Department, lose their minimal generator status.
         (b)   The Department will notify the minimal generator of the status
change.
      (3)   Minimal generators whose rate of generation exceeds that defined
herein shall lose their minimal generator status.
      (4)   Minimal generators that exceed 55 gallons of accumulated hazardous
waste lose minimal generator status. The generation of used oil, used oil
contaminated absorbents, used oil filters, spent lead acid batteries, universal
waste, special hazardous waste, feedstock, or by-product waste is not counted
towards this accumulation limit.
(Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.11 SPECIAL HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   Special hazardous wastes that are managed in compliance with the
management requirements specified in this ordinance are not subject to the
hazardous waste management requirements in Minn. Rules Parts 7045.0205 to
7045.0990 and 7045.1300 to 7045.1380, except for those provisions specified by
reference in this chapter. Special hazardous wastes that are not managed in
compliance with the requirements specified in this chapter must be managed in
accordance with all applicable hazardous waste management requirements in Minn.
Rules Parts 7045.0205 to 7045.0990 and 7045.1300 to 7045.1380. The provisions
of this section apply to all generators and facilities.
   (B)   A person who collects special hazardous waste generated by households
or commingles special hazardous waste generated by households with any special
hazardous waste defined in this chapter shall manage the collected special
hazardous waste or commingled special hazardous waste under the requirements of
this chapter. Facilities that are operated by or under contract, license or
formal agreement with a local unit of government to collect special hazardous
waste from households do not need to obtain a hazardous waste generator or
facility license to operate, however, such facilities must abide by all other
applicable provisions of this chapter.
    (C)   Storage. A generator shall store special hazardous waste in
containers or in a manner that:
      (1)   Prevents damage to or breakage of special hazardous waste during
normal handling conditions;
      (2)   Are compatible with the waste being stored in the container;
      (3)   Will not leak or break open during normal handling conditions;
      (4)   Protects handlers and all other persons from physical injury caused
by contact with special hazardous waste; and
      (5)   Prevents releases of special hazardous waste, including components
or residues of special hazardous waste.
   (D)   Storage areas.
      (1)   Storage of special hazardous waste indoors or outdoors must be on a
surface impermeable to the hazardous waste.
      (2)   Outdoor storage areas must prevent release to soil or water.
      (3)   Storage areas for special hazardous wastes must have protection
from damage including vehicular accidents and vandalism.
      (4)   Special hazardous waste containers must have adequate aisle space
to allow unobstructed movement of personnel and equipment in an emergency.
   (E)   Storage time limit. A generator may accumulate special hazardous waste
up to 10,000 pounds for no longer than one year from the date the special
hazardous waste is generated. A generator of special hazardous waste may
accumulate over 10,000 pounds and one year if such activity is solely for the
purpose of accumulation of such quantities of special hazardous waste as
necessary to facilitate proper recovery, treatment, or disposal. However, the
generator bears the burden of proving that such activity is solely for the
purpose of accumulation of such quantities of special hazardous waste as
necessary to facilitate proper recovery, treatment, or disposal. A generator of
special hazardous waste who accumulates special hazardous waste must be able to
demonstrate the length of time that the special hazardous waste has been
accumulated from the date it becomes a waste. The generator may make this
demonstration by:
      (1)   Placing the special hazardous waste in a container and marking or
labeling the container with the earliest date that any special hazardous waste
in the container became a waste; or
      (2)   Marking or labeling each individual item of special hazardous waste
(e.g., each battery or thermostat) with the date it became a waste; or
      (3)   Maintaining an inventory system on-site that identifies the date
each special hazardous waste became a waste; or
      (4)   Maintaining an inventory system on-site that identifies the
earliest date that any special hazardous waste in a group of special hazardous
waste items or a group of containers of special hazardous waste became a waste;
or
      (5)   Placing the special hazardous waste in a specific accumulation area
and identifying the earliest date that any special hazardous waste in the area
became a waste; or
      (6)   Any other method which clearly demonstrates the length of time that
the special hazardous waste has been accumulated from the date it becomes a
waste.
   (F)   Labeling of containers. Generators and facilities shall label each
waste container with, as applicable:
      (1)   The words "used" or "waste" followed by a brief description of the
waste in the container;
      (2)   A brief description of the waste in the container followed by the
words "for recycling."
   (G)   Response to releases or detection of inadequate container. Generators
and facilities shall conduct the activities set out in divisions (1) through
(4) below upon detection of storage that no longer meets the standards in
division (C) above or upon a release of a special hazardous waste, including
components or residues of a special hazardous waste.
      (1)   Immediately stop and contain any release of a special hazardous
waste, including all components or residues of a special hazardous waste.
      (2)   If a container storing a special hazardous waste begins to leak or
does not otherwise meet the container standards in division (C) above, transfer
all waste remaining in the leaking or inadequate container to a container that
meets the requirements of division (C) above.
      (3)   Prior to returning to service any leaking or otherwise damaged
container, repair the container so that it meets the container standards of
division (C) above.
      (4)   If a release may cause pollution of the environment, immediately
notify the Minnesota Duty Officer by calling (651) 649-5451.
   (H)   Treatment. A generator is prohibited from conducting any treatment of
special hazardous waste, except for activities associated with:
      (1)   Responding to a release as set out in division (G) above;
      (2)   Transferring a type of special hazardous waste from one storage
container into another storage container containing the same type of special
hazardous waste;
      (3)   Shredding or cutting up circuit boards, hard drives or photographic
and X-ray negatives and paper.
   (I)   Transportation. All special hazardous waste must be shipped to a
collector, a licensed processing/storage facility, a recycler, or a permitted
hazardous waste facility. Shipments must be accompanied by a shipping paper,
bill of lading, or manifest. The shipping documents must include the name of
shipper, the date of shipment, the amount of waste, and the destination
facility's name, address and phone number.
   (J)   Recordkeeping. Records shall be kept for all shipments of special
hazardous waste. Each copy shall be maintained on site for a period of three
years from the date the shipment was initiated by the generator.
(Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.12 UNIVERSAL WASTE.
   (A)   Generators and facilities utilizing the universal waste exemption must
manage their universal waste in accordance with Minn. Rules part 7045.1400 et
seq. and this chapter.
   (B)   A person who collects universal waste generated by households or
commingles universal waste generated by households with any universal waste
shall manage the collected universal waste or commingled universal waste under
the requirements of this chapter. Facilities that are operated by or under
contract, license or formal agreement with a local unit of government to
collect universal waste from households do not need to obtain a hazardous waste
generator or facility license to operate, however, such facilities must abide
by all other applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Applicability. The term HANDLER adopted in Minn. Rules Part 7045.1400,
shall mean the following:
      (1)   Generator. When the universal waste activity meets the definition
of GENERATOR in this chapter.
      (2)   Facility. When the universal waste activity meets the definition of
FACILITY in this chapter.
   (D)   Recordkeeping. Records shall be kept for all shipments of universal
waste. Each record shall be maintained on site for a period of three years from
the date the shipment was initiated. The record may take the form of a log,
invoice, manifest, bill of lading or other shipping document. The record for
each shipment of universal waste sent must include the following information:
         (a)   The name, address and telephone number of the destination to
whom the universal waste was sent;
         (b)   The quantity of each type of universal waste sent (e.g.,
batteries, pesticides, thermostats);
         (c)   The date the shipment of universal waste left the generator
site.
   (E)   Additional standards for mercury containing equipment. Mercury
containing equipment must be stored in a container. The container must be
closed, structurally sound, compatible with the contents, and must lack
evidence of leakage, spillage, or damage that could cause leakage under
reasonably foreseeable conditions and must be reasonably designed to prevent
the escape of mercury into the environment by volatilization or any other
means.
(Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
LICENSING REQUIREMENTS
§ 51.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Unless otherwise provided by this chapter, no person shall, within the
county, make or allow property under his, her or its control to be used for any
activity which generates wastes regulated under this chapter, except at an
individual generation site for which a hazardous waste generator license has
been granted by the Department. Unless otherwise provided by this chapter, no
person shall, within the county, store, deposit, keep, accumulate, process,
treat, reclaim, dispose of or otherwise handle, process or cause to be
transported, wastes generated under this chapter except at a site or facility
for which a license has been granted by the Department. Unless otherwise
provided by this chapter, no person shall operate a used oil collection site, a
used oil filter collection site or a spent battery collection site, except at
an individual site for which a hazardous waste license has been granted by the
Department. On a case by case basis, the Department may allow a person that
does not possess a facility license to accept used oil, used oil filters,
recyclable fuel waste, universal waste and/or special hazardous waste if the
facility possesses a generator license, using the following criteria as a
guide: the site takes these wastes only from generators owned or operated by
the owner or operator of the receiving site, is receiving used oil pursuant to
M.S. § 325E.11, is operated in compliance with Minn. Rules Part 7045.0310, or
the volumes of the wastes received or number of generators shipping waste to
the receiving site are not deemed to present a hazard requiring management
standards over and above what normally would be applied to that generator
license.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.21 LICENSING NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   Obtaining a hazardous waste license shall not be deemed to exclude the
necessity of obtaining other appropriate licenses or permits, except as
expressly provided herein. Compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall
not relieve any person of the need to comply with any and all other applicable
rules, regulations and laws.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.22 FEES.
   (A)   The Board may, by ordinance, establish fees, including fees for the
initial and renewal of licenses for generators and for the initial application,
initial license, and renewal of licenses for facilities.
   (B)   The Board may, by ordinance, establish other fees as may be necessary
for the administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Fees for new licenses are due 30 days after the billing date. Fees for
renewal of licenses are due 30 days prior to the expiration of the current
license. Hazardous waste generators whose production of hazardous waste (volume
and/or types) exceeds that set forth in their license renewal application, and
said excess production places them in a higher license category, shall be
invoiced for the additional fee. The additional fee due for the current license
year must be paid within 30 days of the invoice date, or before the renewal of
their license for the coming year, whichever comes first. As used herein, fees
may include license fees, Agency statewide program fees, application fees, late
penalty fees and other fees as may be prescribed by the Board.
   (D)   Fees for license renewal shall be based on the past year’s rate of
generation and the highest generator size exhibited during the year. If the
license is for new waste generation, the fee shall be based on an estimated
rate of generation, which is acceptable to the Department.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.23 MINIMAL GENERATORS.
   Minimal generators shall comply with the following registration requirements
in place of the license and fee requirements of §§
51.20 and
51.22:
   (A)   Minimal generators shall register with the Department within 75 days
of first generating hazardous waste.
   (B)   All currently licensed generators that meet the definition of a
minimal generator will be converted by the county to registered status.
   (C)   Registration will be effective as long as the generator meets the
minimal generator definition.
   (D)   Minimal generators shall notify the Department within 30 days before
or after whenever any of the following events occurs:
      (1)   The business closes;
      (2)   The business is sold or otherwise changes ownership;
      (3)   The business moves to a new location;
      (4)   The business assumes a new name; or
      (5)   The generator’s rate of generation no longer meets the minimal
generator definition listed herein.
   (E)   Any generator who loses minimal generator status, pursuant to §
51.09(C) shall be subject to the full generator licensing standards of this
chapter. The generator will not be eligible to regain minimal generator status
for a period of two license years.
   (F)   To regain minimal generator status, the generator must be in
compliance with the minimal standards defined in this chapter. An inspection by
the Department may be required to confirm compliance with these standards.
   (G)   Any minimal generator may, by making written request to the
Department, remain regulated as a very small quantity generator in lieu of the
minimal generator requirements.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.24 LICENSE TERM.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by the County Board, each license granted
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be nontransferable and shall
be for a period of not more than one year, except that initial licenses may be
issued for a period of up to 15 months, unless earlier suspended or revoked.
   (B)   The license year for hazardous waste facilities shall be from July 1
through June 30. The license year for hazardous waste generators shall be from
April 1 through March 31.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.25 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Applications for license or license renewal shall be submitted
to the Department on forms provided by the Department. Applicants shall provide
information as may be needed for the administration of this chapter.
      (2)   Generators. Generators shall submit to the Department a license
application. The license application shall include, but not necessarily be
limited to, the information specified in Minn. Rules Parts 7045.0230 to
7045.0248 as applicable. Applications for a generator license received more
than 75 days after commencement of operation, or applications for license
renewal received after January 31, shall be considered late and subject to a
late application penalty. Applications for license modification shall be deemed
late, and subject to a late application penalty, if received later than as set
forth in Minn. Rules Part 7045.0243(3)(G), as it may be amended from time to
time. The date of receipt is the postmark date if mailed or the Department date
of receipt if hand delivered.
      (3)   Facilities interim operating approval. Unless interim operating
approval has been granted hereunder, applicants for a facility license shall
not commence any construction or operation until the license application has
been approved by the Department, nor shall they commence any operation until a
license is issued. A facility license shall not be issued until the facility
construction has been completed in compliance with this chapter and the
approved plans, and has been approved by the Department.
   (B)   (1)   If an application for a generator license or license renewal is
not complete or otherwise does not conform with the requirements set forth in
this chapter, the Department shall advise the applicant within 60 days of
application receipt, in writing, of the reasons for non-acceptance and may
request that the applicant resubmit, modify or otherwise alter the application.
The applicant shall comply with the requests within the time specified by the
Department.
      (2)   If an application for a facility license or license renewal is not
complete or otherwise does not conform with the requirements set forth in this
chapter, the Department shall advise the applicant within 120 days of
application receipt, in writing, of the reasons for non-acceptance and may
request that the applicant resubmit, modify or otherwise alter the application.
The applicant shall comply with the requests within the time specified by the
Department.
   (C)   (1)   Generator applications for license renewal shall be received by
the Department no later than January 31. Applications for license renewal must
be accompanied by a statement of any change in information submitted in the
last approved license or in the license renewal application. If there are no
changes, it shall be so stated in the license renewal application. If the
Department does not act on a generator license renewal application, which is
complete and submitted on time, the current license shall continue in force
until action is taken.
      (2)   Facility applications for license renewal shall be received by the
Department no later than February 28. Applications for license renewal must be
accompanied by a statement of any change in information submitted in the last
approved license or in the license renewal application. If there are no
changes, it shall be so stated in the license renewal application. If the
Department or County Board does not approve or deny a facility license renewal
application, which is complete and submitted on time, the current license shall
continue in force until action is taken.
   (D)   (1)   Failure by the Department to approve or deny an initial
generator license application within 60 days from the date of receipt of a
completed application shall constitute grounds for the applicant to request a
hearing. The request for a hearing shall be governed hereby. Failure to act
shall be construed as denial without prejudice.
      (2)   Except as provided herein, failure by the Department or County
Board to approve or deny an initial facility license application within 120
days from the date of receipt of a completed application, shall constitute
grounds for the applicant to request a hearing. The request for a hearing shall
be governed hereby. Failure to act shall be construed as denial without
prejudice.
   (E)   For licensing purposes, the Department may consider on-site treatment
by the generator, of on- site generated hazardous waste, as part of the
generator’s licensure and may exempt such on-site treatment from facility
licensing requirements. The exemption shall be limited to the following types
of treatment: the specific treatment activities allowed in Minn. Rules Parts
7045.0450(3)(K); 7045.0652; and 7045.0855(3), as they may be amended from time
to time; and/or recovery of reusable solvents by distillation. The treatment
must be described in the generator license application and approved by the
Department. The Department may require generators, who do on-site treatment as
identified above, to comply with the requirements of Minn. Rules Parts
7045.0558; 7045.0562(1) and (2); and 7045.0566 through 7045.0576, as they may
be amended from time to time, or may impose license conditions as may be deemed
necessary to monitor the treatment operation and ensure public health and
safety.
   (F)   Use of household hazardous waste collection site. Delivery of waste
governed under this chapter to a household hazardous waste collection site is
prohibited unless the site is authorized by the Agency to accept such hazardous
waste and the operator granted permission to accept the waste knowing it was
not household hazardous waste.
   (G)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by the County Board and/or Department,
issuance of a hazardous waste transfer, storage, resource recovery, disposal,
treatment or other handling or processing site or facility license, pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter, shall be contingent upon the applicant
furnishing to the Department a bond or letter of credit acceptable to the
Department naming the county as the obligee with sufficient sureties duly
licensed and authorized to transact corporate surety business in the State of
Minnesota as sureties. The amount of the bond or letter of credit shall be set
by the Department according to the following formula: estimated cost, submitted
by the applicant and approved by the Department, for a third party contractor,
unrelated to the applicant or to Carver County, to dispose of the maximum
inventory of hazardous wastes that will be on site at any one time, and to
decontaminate the facility and all equipment in the facility, or dispose of any
equipment that cannot be decontaminated, and to perform any other activities
necessary to ensure that the facility does not pose a threat to human health or
the environment; plus an additional 30% to cover unanticipated costs and
administrative costs that the county might incur. The condition of the bond or
letter of credit shall be that if the principal fails to obey any of the
requirements or do any of the acts required by this chapter an order or notice
issued by the Department or conditions of the license in the operation of the
site or facility, or if, for any reason, the applicant ceases to operate or
abandons the site or facility, and the county determines that chemical analysis
and/or testing and remediation are required to restore the site or facility to
the condition and requirements as provided by the chapter, notice, order, or
license, the principal and the sureties on its bond shall pay for any and all
expenses required for chemical testing and to remedy the failure of the
principal to comply with this chapter, orders or notices of the Department, or
conditions of the license and that the principal and its sureties will
indemnify and save the county harmless from all losses, costs and charges that
may occur to the county because of any default of the principal under terms of
his or her license to operate and this chapter of the county. In the event the
county is required to expend monies or expend any labor or material to restore
the site or facility to the condition or requirements as provided by this
chapter, order or notice by the Department, or license, the principal and the
sureties shall reimburse the county for any and all expenses incurred to remedy
the failure of the principal to comply with the terms of this chapter, orders
or notices of the Department or conditions of the license. The applicant may
satisfy the requirements of this section by demonstrating that they pass a
financial test, the terms of which will be set on a case by case basis by the
Department. For facilities permitted by the Agency or having interim status, or
otherwise required by the Agency to establish financial assurance for closure
or corrective action, the license applicant, in lieu of the above, shall submit
to the Department for review satisfactory evidence of compliance with the
Agency's financial assurance requirements.
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided by the Department, issuance of a
hazardous waste transfer, storage, resource recovery, disposal, treatment or
other handling or processing site or facility license which requires an agency
permit or is operating under interim status pursuant to Minn. Rules Parts
7045.0552 through 7045.0648, as they may be amended from time to time, pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter, shall be contingent upon the applicant
furnishing to the Department satisfactory evidence of compliance with Minn.
Rules Parts 7045.0518 and 7045.0620, as they may be amended from time to time.
The Department shall be notified 30 days prior to the effective date of a
cancellation or change of insurance. Under interim operating approval, the
required insurance shall be specified by the county.
         (a)   Unless otherwise provided by the Department, issuance of a
license to a facility not required by the Agency to meet the liability
requirements of Minn. Rules Parts 7045.0518 or 7045.0620, pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, shall be contingent upon the applicant furnishing
to the county a certificate of insurance showing that the applicant maintains
the following minimum coverage:
            1.   A commercial general liability insurance policy covering all
premises and operations with limits of not less than $1,000,000 for personal
injuries arising from one occurrence, $1,000,000 for damages arising from death
and/ or total bodily injuries arising from one occurrence, and $1,000,000 for
property damage arising from one occurrence, or a combined single limit
thereof, with a $2,000,000 annual aggregate.
            2.   An automobile liability insurance policy, if applicable, with
limits of $1,000,000 per accident for death or bodily injury and/or damages to
any one person, $1,000,000 for total bodily injuries and/or damages arising
from any one accident and with limits of not less than $1,000,000 per accident
for property damage.
            3.   Workers compensation coverage at the statutory limits (or
written confirmation that the applicant is a qualified self insured or is
otherwise exempt under M.S. §176.041).
         (b)   A financial test for liability coverage may be substituted for
the certificate of insurance upon the approval of the Department. The county
shall be notified 30 days prior to the effective date of a cancellation or
change of insurance.
         (c)   Hazardous waste facilities shall not be required to submit a
bond, letter of credit, or
financial test, specified herein, and proof of adequate insurance specified
herein, if the applicant can demonstrate to the Department that financial
assurance is not required by the Agency, and the closure cost estimate approved
by the Department is $10,000.00 or less.
      (3)   No change shall be made in the operation of a hazardous waste
facility, unless the change is first approved by the Department.
      (4)   In order to operate a hazardous waste site or facility during
interim period prior to license approval by the Department, a person must
obtain interim operating approval from the Department and comply with
conditions set by the Department. Interim operating approval shall require said
person to operate the hazardous waste site or facility in conformance with
Minn. Rules Parts 7045.0552 through 7045.0606 and 7045.0626 through 7045.0642,
as it may be amended from time to time, if operating as a treatment, storage or
disposal facility, or in conformance with Minn. Rules Part 7045.0365, as it may
be amended from time to time, if operating as a transfer facility or in
conformance with Minn. Rules Parts 7045.0125 and/or 7045.0675 , as it may be
amended from time to time, if operating as a recycling facility. Additionally,
the Department may impose conditions as deemed necessary to monitor the
operation and ensure public health and safety, and will require compliance with
the insurance requirements specified herein. The requirements under interim
operating approval shall remain in force until the Department acts to grant or
deny the license. If the Department finds that the hazardous waste site or
facility is not being operated in compliance with the requirements of interim
operating approval, the approval shall be terminated. Any person operating in
full compliance with this paragraph shall be considered to be in compliance
herewith until the Department acts to grant or deny the license. Any person
who, on an interim basis, in compliance with this section, owns or operates a
hazardous waste transfer, storage, disposal, resource recovery, treatment or
other handling or processing facility shall apply for a hazardous waste
facility license within 120 days of commencement of operation.
      (5)   Nothing in this item is intended to allow facilities to operate
without permits, licenses or compliance agreements required by the agency.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.26 TERMINATION OF OPERATION.
   Any person who, for any reason, terminates operations at a regulated site,
must remove all hazardous waste and materials contaminated with hazardous waste
prior to termination of operations. Termination of operations may include the
sale of an operation to a new entity, or the simple shutdown of a business or
site, which is then not operated, the relinquishing of lease or rental rights
to a property, or a change in operation such that hazardous waste is no longer
generated. Removal of the waste from the site must be completed in a timely
manner as determined by the Department and accomplished in full compliance with
this chapter and Minn. Rules Chapter 7045. Materials remaining on the site of a
terminated operation shall be considered waste materials. The continued storage
of hazardous wastes on the site of a terminated operation shall be done in
compliance with the hazardous waste storage facility rules in Minn. Rules
Chapters 7045 and 7001 and this chapter.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.40 MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The County Board may waive or modify the strict application of the
provisions of this chapter by reducing or waiving certain requirements when the
requirements are unnecessary or impractical, or by imposing additional
requirements necessary to reduce risk of harm to persons, property or the
environment.
   (B)   No modification or waiver may be granted if it would result in
noncompliance with Minn. Rules Chapter 7045, as it may be amended from time to
time, unless the modification or waiver has been approved or granted by the
agency.
   (C)   For facilities permitted or granted interim status by the agency,
amendments to the facility closure/post-closure plans and extensions to the
closure/post-closure period shall be granted by the Department only where the
amendments or extensions have been approved by the agency.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.41 AUTHORITIES OF THE DEPARTMENT.
   The Department is authorized to administer and enforce this chapter. The
Department’s authority includes but is not limited to the following:
   (A)   Receive and review generator and facility license or license renewal
applications, issue hazardous waste generator and facility licenses, and
approve or disapprove interim operations of facilities pursuant to this
chapter;
   (B)   Inspect hazardous waste facilities and generators, as provided in this
chapter, and investigate complaints of violations of this chapter;
   (C)   Recommend that legal proceedings be initiated by the county to compel
compliance with the provisions of this chapter; and
   (D)   Advise, consult and cooperate with other governmental agencies in the
furtherance of this chapter.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.42 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Inspection and evaluation of hazardous waste facilities, including
transfer, short-term storage, transportation, storage, disposal, resource
recovery, treatment or other handling or processing sites or facilities, or
generators may be made by the Department to insure compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. The facility owner and/or operator or generator
shall be provided with written notice of any deficiencies, recommendations for
their correction, and the date by which the corrections shall be accomplished.
   (B)   The facility owner and/or operator or generator shall allow the
county’s authorized agents access for the purposes of making inspections as may
be necessary to determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter. At
the Department’s election, the owner and/or operator shall provide free of
charge or shall allow the Department or its agents to collect samples of waste,
soils, surface waters, ground waters, air, raw materials, sewage discharges or
other materials or residues present at or emanating from the site for testing.
The owner and/or operator shall allow free access at all reasonable times to
inspect and copy, at a reasonable cost, all business records related to an
owner’s and/or operator’s generation, collection, processing and transportation
of waste. All records required to be kept under this chapter shall be kept at
the licensed site and shall be easily available for review during the
inspection.
   (C)   The owner and/or operator shall allow the Department to record and
document its findings in any reasonable and appropriate manner including, but
not limited to notes, photographs, photocopies, readouts from analytical
instruments, videotapes, audio recordings and computer storage systems or other
electronic media. When requested by the Department, photocopies of records
shall be provided at a reasonable cost.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.43 ORDERS AND NOTICES.
   Whenever the Department or its authorized representatives shall find in any
building or on any premises, hazardous waste whether at a site or facility for
which a license has been granted by the county or where no license has been
issued, the Department shall issue orders as may be necessary for the
enforcement of this chapter governing and safeguarding the health, welfare and
safety of the public.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.44 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Any person within the county who shall generate, store, deposit, keep,
accumulate, process, treat, reclaim, dispose of or otherwise handle, process or
cause to be transported hazardous waste, in violation of this chapter, or who
shall permit the hazardous waste to exist on the premises under his or her
control or who shall fail to take immediate action to abate the existence of
the hazardous waste when ordered or notified to do so by the Department shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any order or notice issued or served by the Department shall be
complied with by the owner, operator, occupant or other person deemed by the
Department to be responsible for the condition or violation to which the order
or notice pertains. Every order or notice shall set forth a time limit for
compliance depending upon the nature of the hazardous waste and the danger
created by the violation. In cases of extreme danger to the health, welfare and
safety of the public, immediate compliance shall be required. If the building
or other premises is owned by one person and occupied by another, under lease
or otherwise, and the order or notice requires immediate compliance for the
health, welfare and safety of the public, the order or notice shall be complied
with by the owner, unless the owner and occupant have otherwise agreed between
themselves, in which event the occupant shall comply.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.45 CITATION AUTHORITY.
   Upon approval be resolution, the County Board may issue citation authority
to the Department.
   (A)   A notice of violation or a warning letter, as defined, may be issued
to a person alleged to have committed a violation of this chapter, prior to
issuance of a citation.
   (B)   An authorized representative of the Department shall have the power to
issue citations for violations of this chapter, but shall not be permitted to
physically arrest or take into custody any violator, except on a warrant duly
issued.
      (1)   Citations shall be issued to the person alleged to have committed
the violation either by personal delivery or by registered or certified mail.
In case of public, private or municipal corporation, the citation shall be
issue to any officer or agent, expressly or impliedly authorized to accept the
issuance.
      (2)   Citations shall be made out in quadruplicate. One copy shall be
issued to the person alleged to have committed the violation; one copy shall be
filed with the Department; one copy shall be filed with the County Attorney’s
Office; one copy shall be filed with the District Court, First Judicial
District.
      (3)   Citations shall be on forms as approved by the Department and shall
contain at least the following:
         (a)   The name and address of the person alleged to have committed the
violation and, when known, the owner or person in charge of the premises at
which the violation occurs;
         (b)   The date and place of violation;
         (c)   A short description of the violation followed by reference to
the section of this chapter violated;
         (d)   The name of person issuing the citation;
         (e)   The date and place at which the person receiving the citation
shall appear and a notice that if the person does not respond, a warrant may be
issued for the person’s arrest; and
         (f)   Other information as the Court may specify.
      (4)   The person charged with the violation shall appear at the place and
on the date specified in the citation and either:
         (a)   Pay the fine assigned to the violation; or
         (b)   Schedule a court date for a hearing on the citation.
      (5)   If the person charged with the violation fails to appear as
required by the citation, the citation shall be referred to the County
Attorney’s Office.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.46 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any license required under this chapter may be suspended by the
Department or the County Board for violation of any provision of this chapter.
Upon written notice to the licensee the license may be suspended for a period
not longer than 60 days.
   (B)   (1)   The suspension shall not occur earlier than ten county working
days after written notice of suspension has been served on the licensee. Notice
to the licensee shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
at the address designated in the license application.
      (2)   The written notice of suspension shall contain the effective date
of the suspension, the nature of the violation or violations constituting the
basis for the suspension, the facts which support the conclusion that a
violation or violations has occurred, and a statement that if a licensee
desires a hearing, he or she must within ten county working days, exclusive of
the day of service, file a request for a hearing with the Department. If the
licensee fails to request a hearing, he shall forfeit any opportunity to a
hearing. If a hearing is requested, the suspension shall be stayed pending
outcome of the hearing.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.47 SUMMARY SUSPENSION.
   (A)   If the Department finds that the public health, safety or welfare
imperatively requires emergency action, and incorporates a finding to that
effect in its order, summary suspension of a license may be ordered by the
Department upon notification of the County Attorney’s Office and the County
Board. Written notice of the summary suspension shall be served personally or
by registered or certified mail to the licensee at the address designated in
the license application.
   (B)   The written notice in such cases shall state the effective date of the
suspension, the nature of the violation or violations requiring emergency
action, the facts which support the conclusion that a violation or violations
has occurred and a statement that if the licensee desires a hearing that he
must, within ten county working days, exclusive of the day of service, file a
request for a hearing with the Department. If the licensee fails to request a
hearing, he shall forfeit any opportunity to a hearing. Any such suspension
shall be reviewed by the Department upon a written request of the licensee.
   (C)   If a hearing is requested, the summary suspension shall not be stayed
pending the outcome of the hearing.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.48 SUSPENSION REINSPECTIONS.
   Upon written notification from the licensee that all the violations for
which a suspension or summary suspension was revoked have been corrected, the
Department shall reinspect the facility or activity within a reasonable length
of time, but in no case more than three county working days after receipt of
the notice from the licensee. If the Department finds upon the reinspection
that the violations constituting the grounds for the suspension have been
corrected, the Department shall immediately dismiss the suspension by written
notice to the licensee and the County Board.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.49 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any license issued pursuant to this chapter by the Department or
County Board may be revoked by the issuer for violation of any provision of
this chapter.
   (B)   Revocation shall not occur earlier than ten county working days from
the time that written notice of the revocation is served on the licensee.
Notice to the licensee shall be served personally or by registered or certified
mail at the address designated in the license application. The written notice
of revocation shall contain the effective date of the revocation, the nature of
the violation or violations constituting the basis for the revocation, the
facts which support the conclusion that a violation or violations has occurred
and a statement that if the licensee desires a hearing, he or she must within
ten county working days, exclusive of the day of service, file a request for a
hearing with the Department. If the licensee fails to request a hearing, he
shall forfeit any opportunity for a hearing. If a hearing is requested, the
revocation shall be stayed pending the outcome of the hearing.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.50 HEARINGS.
   Whenever a hearing is requested in regard to an application, renewal,
suspension or revocation of a license, the procedure shall be governed by the
following:
   (A)   Hearing officer. The hearing shall be before an impartial hearing
officer who shall conduct the hearing on behalf of the County Board. The
Department shall prescribe the duties of the hearing officer or contract with
the Office of Administrative Hearings. The Department shall ascertain the
availability and timeliness of scheduling the hearing through the Office of
Administrative Hearings. If it is determined that a prompt hearing is not
readily available through the Office of Administrative Hearings, the Department
may appoint an individual learned in the law to act as the hearing officer.
   (B)   Prehearing and hearing notice. The Department shall schedule and
provide notice of the date, time and place of the prehearing conference and
hearing. The prehearing conference shall be held at least three weeks prior to
the hearing. The hearing shall be held no later than 45 calendar days after
receipt of the request for hearing or by mutual agreement of the parties,
subject to scheduling by the Office of Administrative Hearings.
   (C)   Procedure. The prehearing conference and hearing shall be conducted in
the following manner:
      (1)   The prehearing conference shall define the issues, schedule the
exchange of witness lists and documentary evidence, seek agreement on the
authenticity of documents and relevant testimonial evidence, determine whether
intended evidence is cumulative and repetitive, and consider all other matters
that will assist in a fair and expeditious hearing.
      (2)   Each party shall exchange all relevant information and documentary
evidence at least one week prior to the hearing date. Such information shall
include all evidence intended for introduction at the hearing and includes but
is not limited to the following: exhibits; statements; reports; witness lists
including a description of the facts and opinions to which each is expected to
testify; photographs; slides; demonstrative evidence. Evidence not exchanged in
accordance with this provision will not be considered in the hearing unless
good cause is shown to the hearing officer.
      (3)   The hearing shall be public and shall be tape recorded or upon
agreement of the parties may be recorded by a court reporter.
      (4)   All witnesses shall testify under oath or affirmation.
      (5)   Hearings shall be informal and the rules of evidence as applied in
the courts shall not apply. Irrelevant, immaterial and repetitious evidence
shall be excluded.
      (6)   The Department shall have the burden of proof through clear and
convincing evidence.
      (7)   The Department, licensee or applicant, and additional parties as
determined by the hearing officer, shall present evidence in that order. Each
party shall have the opportunity to cross-examine the witnesses of the other
party. The hearing officer may examine witnesses.
      (8)   Failure of an applicant or licensee to appear at the hearing shall
result in a waiver of the right to a hearing.
      (9)   The hearing officer shall issue a report containing written
findings of fact and conclusions based upon the evidence presented at the
hearing and shall submit the same to the County Board.
      (10)   Each party may submit written arguments to the County Board.
      (11)   The County Board shall consider the report of the hearing officer
at the next possible board meeting and may adopt or modify the report and take
action, reject the report of the hearing officer, or remand for further
hearing. The parties shall be notified of the action of the County Board within
30 calendar days following its determination.
      (12)   Issuing, denying, suspending, modifying, imposing conditions upon
or revoking a license shall be subject to review by the Agency. The Agency
shall after written notification have 15 days to review, affirm, suspend,
modify or reverse the action of the County Board. After this period the action
of the County Board shall be final subject to appeal to the District Court.
      (13)   Appeal of a decision by the County Board shall be made to the
District Court within 30 calendar days following the review by the Agency. The
scope of review of the District Court shall be governed by M.S. § 14.69. Filing
an appeal does not stay enforcement of the County Board decision.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who willfully or negligently fails to comply with the
provisions of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed upon each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
   (B)   In the event of a violation or a threat of violation of this chapter,
the county may institute appropriate civil actions or proceedings, including
requesting injunctive relief to prevent, restrain, correct or abate violations
or threatened violations.
   (C)   If a person fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter, the
county may recover costs incurred for corrective action in a civil action in
any court of competent jurisdiction and such costs may be certified by court
order to the County Auditor as a special tax against the real property.
   (D)   The penalty for late initial license application, late license renewal
application or late license fee payment shall be established by ordinance by
the County Board.
   (E)   The Department may embargo and forbid the movement, removal,
transport, disposal, treatment, sale or use of any material which is or is
suspected of being a hazardous waste or material contaminated with hazardous
waste and which is being mismanaged, or which the Department has reason to
suspect is being or will be managed in violation of this chapter. The
Department shall place a tag to indicate the embargo on the suspect material.
No person shall remove the tag or remove, transport, dispose, treat or use
embargoed material, except as authorized by the Department. The action by the
Department shall not be considered to impute ownership or management
responsibility upon the county.
(Ord. 28F, passed 10-31-00; Am. Ord. 60-2007, passed 8-14-07)
CHAPTER 52: SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEMS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Purpose
   
52.002   Intent
   
52.003   Authority
   
52.004   Definitions
   
52.005   Scope
   
52.006   Jurisdiction
   
52.007   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
52.008   County administration
   
52.009   State disposal system permit
   
52.010   SSTS operation and effectiveness
   
52.011   Validity
   
52.012   Liability
SSTS Standards
   
52.020   Standards adopted by reference
   
52.021   Amendments to the adopted standards
   
52.022   SSTS setbacks
   
52.023   Determination of hydraulic loading rate and SSTS sizing
   
52.024   Holding tanks
   
52.025   SSTS construction in floodplains
   
52.026   Class V injection wells
General Requirements; Retroactivity
   
52.040   All SSTS
   
52.041   Existing SSTS construction permits
   
52.042   SSTS on lots created after January 23, 1996
   
52.043   Existing SSTS without permits
SSTS Upgrade, Repair, Replacement, and Abandonment
   
52.055   Failure to protect groundwater
   
52.056   Imminent threat to public health or safety
   
52.057   Reserved
   
52.058   Abandonment
SSTS Construction Permit
   
52.070   SSTS construction permit required
   
52.071   SSTS construction permit
   
52.072   Activities requiring an SSTS construction permit
   
52.073   Activities not requiring an SSTS construction permit
   
52.074   SSTS construction permit required to obtain building permit
   
52.075   Conformance to prevailing requirements
   
52.076   SSTS construction permit application requirements
   
52.077   SSTS construction permit application review and response
   
52.078   SSTS construction permit denied
   
52.079   Appeal
   
52.080   SSTS construction permit expiration
   
52.081   Fees
   
52.082   SSTS construction permit transferability
   
52.083   SSTS construction permit suspension or revocation
   
52.084   SSTS construction permit posting
SSTS Management Plan
   
52.095   Purpose
   
52.096   SSTS requiring management plans
   
52.097   Required contents of an SSTS management plan
   
52.098   Requirements for SSTS not operated under a management plan
SSTS Operating Permit
   
52.110   SSTS requiring an operating permit
   
52.111   SSTS operating permit application requirements
   
52.112   SSTS operating permit department response
   
52.113   SSTS operating permit terms and conditions
   
52.114   SSTS operating permit expiration and renewal
   
52.115   Amendments to existing SSTS operating permits not allowed
   
52.116   SSTS operating permits not transferrable
   
52.117   Suspension or revocation of SSTS operating permits
   
52.118   Monitoring requirements for SSTS operating permits
Prohibitions
   
52.130   Occupancy or use of a structure without a compliant SSTS
   
52.131   Sewage discharge to ground surface or surface water
   
52.132   Sewage discharge to a well or boring
   
52.133   Discharge of hazardous or deleterious materials
   
52.134   Conflicts of interest
Variances
   
52.145   Variance requests
   
52.146   Affected agency
   
52.147   Board of adjustment
SSTS Practitioner Licensing
   
52.160   SSTS practitioner licensing
   
52.161   SSTS business license exemptions
   
52.162   SSTS licensed designer responsibilities
   
52.163   SSTS licensed installer responsibilities
   
52.164   SSTS licensed maintainer responsibilities
   
52.165   SSTS licensed service provider responsibilities
   
52.166   SSTS licensed inspector responsibilities
   
52.167   Periodically saturated soil disagreements
Administration
   
52.180   Public education outreach
   
52.181   Record keeping
   
52.182   Annual report
SSTS Compliance Inspection Program
   
52.195   Department responsibility
   
52.196   New SSTS construction or replacement
   
52.197   Existing SSTS compliance inspection
   
52.198   Compliance criteria for existing SSTS
   
52.199   Transfer of properties
Enforcement
   
52.210   Notice of violation
   
52.211   Cease and desist orders
   
52.212   Civil remedies
   
52.213   Interpretation
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish minimum requirements for
regulation of subsurface sewage treatment systems (hereinafter “SSTS”) for the
treatment and dispersal of sewage within the applicable jurisdiction of the
Department to protect public health and safety, groundwater quality and prevent
or eliminate the development of public nuisances. It is intended to serve the
best interests of the County’s citizens by protecting its health, safety,
general welfare, and natural resources.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.002 INTENT.
   It is intended by the Carver County Environmental Services Department that
this Chapter will promote the following.
   (A)   The protection of lakes, rivers and streams, wetlands, and groundwater
in Carver County essential to the promotion of public health, safety, welfare,
socioeconomic growth, and development of the County.
   (B)   The regulation of proper SSTS construction, reconstruction, repair,
and maintenance to prevent the entry and migration of contaminants, thereby
protecting surface water and groundwater from degradation.
   (C)   The establishment of minimum standards for SSTS placement, design,
construction, reconstruction, repair, and maintenance to prevent contamination
and, if contamination is discovered, the identification and control of its
consequences and the abatement of its source and migration.
   (D)   The appropriate utilization of privy vaults and other non-water
carried sewage collection and storage facilities.
   (E)   The provision of SSTS technical assistance and education, plan review,
inspections, surveys, and complaint investigations to prevent and control
water-borne diseases, lake degradation, groundwater related hazards, and public
nuisance conditions.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.003 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to M.S. §§ 115.55 and 115.56; M.S. §
145A.01 through 145A.08; M.S. § 375.51; or successor statutes and Minn. Rules,
Chapter 7080, Chapter 7081, Chapter 7082, and Chapter 7083; or successor rules
as they may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.004 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them in
this section. If not specifically defined in this section, terms used in this
chapter shall have the same meaning as provided in the standards adopted by
reference in §
52.020. Words or phrases that are not defined here or in the standards adopted
by reference shall have common usage meaning. For purposes of this chapter, the
words “must” and “shall” are mandatory, and the words “may” and “should” are
permissive.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. A board established by Carver County Zoning Code,
Chapter 152 with the authority to order the issuance of variances, hear and
decide appeals from a member of the affected public, and review any order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by any administrative official
charged with enforcing any chapter adopted pursuant to the provision of M.S. §§
394.21 to 394.37, order the issuance of permits for buildings in areas
designated for future public use on an official map and perform such other
duties as required by the official controls.
   CLASS V INJECTION WELL. A shallow well used to place a variety of fluids
directly below the land surface, which includes a domestic SSTS serving more
than 20 people. The US Environmental Protection Agency and delegated state
groundwater programs permit these wells to inject wastes below the ground
surface provided they meet certain requirements and do not endanger underground
sources of drinking water. Class V motor vehicle waste disposal wells and
large-capacity cesspools are specifically prohibited (see 40 C.F.R. §§ 144 and
146).
   CLUSTER SYSTEM. An SSTS under some form of common ownership that collects
wastewater from two or more dwellings or structures and conveys it to a soil
treatment and dispersal system located on an acceptable site near the dwellings
or structures.
   COUNTY. Carver County, Minnesota.
   COUNTY BOARD. The Carver County Board of Commissioners.
   DEPARTMENT. The Carver County Environmental Services Department.
   MPCA. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   QUALIFIED EMPLOYEE. An employee of the state or a local unit of government,
who performs site evaluations or designs, installs, maintains, pumps, or
inspects SSTS as part of the individual’s employment duties and is a certified
SSTS professional with specialty area endorsements applicable to the work being
conducted.
   STATE. The State of Minnesota.
   SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM or “SSTS”. A subsurface sewage treatment
system includes individual subsurface sewage treatment systems and midsized
subsurface sewage treatment systems
   TREATMENT LEVEL. Treatment system performance levels defined in Minn. Rules
Chapter 7083.4030 and Table III for testing of proprietary treatment products.
Minnesota Rules Chapter 7083.4030 is hereby incorporated by reference as
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11; Am. Ord. 90-2018, passed 12-18-18)
§ 52.005 SCOPE.
   This chapter regulates the siting, design, installation, alterations,
operation, maintenance, monitoring, and management of all SSTS within the
Department’s applicable jurisdiction including, but not limited to individual
SSTS and cluster or community SSTS, privy vaults, and other non-water carried
SSTS. All sewage generated in unsewered areas of the county must be treated and
dispersed by an approved SSTS that is sited, designed, installed, operated, and
maintained in accordance with the provisions of this chapter or by an SSTS that
has been permitted by the MPCA.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.006 JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of this chapter shall include all lands of the county
except for incorporated areas that administer an SSTS program by ordinance
within their incorporated jurisdiction, which is at least as strict as this
chapter.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.007 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, or impair any other
existing Carver County chapters, easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.
Whenever any provision of this chapter is found to be in direct conflict with
the provisions of any other Carver County chapter, the chapter containing the
more restrictive requirements shall govern.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.008 COUNTY ADMINISTRATION.
   The County Environmental Services Department is authorized to administer the
SSTS program and all provisions of this chapter. At appropriate times, the
Department may review and request revisions to update this chapter as
necessary. The Department may employ or retain under contract, qualified, and
appropriately certified and/or licensed SSTS professional(s) to administer and
operate the SSTS program.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.009 STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM PERMIT.
   (A)   The owner or owners of a single SSTS or a group of SSTS under common
ownership must obtain a state disposal system permit from the MPCA, when all or
part of proposed or existing soil dispersal components are within one-half mile
of each other and the combined flow from all proposed and existing SSTS is
greater than 10,000 gallons per day.
   (B)   SSTS serving establishments or facilities licensed or otherwise
regulated by the state must conform to the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.010 SSTS OPERATION AND EFFECTIVENESS.
   Neither the issuance of SSTS permits or certificates of compliance shall be
construed to represent a guarantee or warranty of the SSTS operation or
effectiveness.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.011 VALIDITY.
   The validity of any part of this chapter shall not be affected by the
invalidity of any other parts of this chapter where the part can be given
effect, irrespective of any invalid part or parts.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.012 LIABILITY.
   No liability or responsibility shall be imposed upon the Department or any
of its officials, employees, contractors, agents, or servants thereof, for
damage resulting from a defective design, construction, operation, abandonment,
or misplacement of any onsite or cluster SSTS regulated under this rule by
reason of standards, requirements, or inspections authorized hereunder.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
SSTS STANDARDS
§ 52.020 STANDARDS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Minnesota Rules Chapters 7080, 7081, 7082, and 7083, as they may be amended
from time to time, relating to SSTS are hereby adopted by reference and made
part of this chapter as if fully set forth herein, except as modified by or
inconsistent with provisions of this chapter. This adoption does not supersede
the county’s right or ability to adopt local standards that are in compliance
with M.S. § 115.55.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.021 AMENDMENTS TO THE ADOPTED STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minnesota Rules Chapter 7080.1500, subpart 6, is amended to include:
An SSTS design that proposes to reuse an existing tank(s) for a replacement
SSTS must include the Tank Integrity portion of the MPCA Compliance form, which
includes a verification that all tank and riser joints, riser connections, and
pipe connections are watertight according to Minn. Rules Chapter 7080.2010,
subpart 1, item A.
   (B)   Minnesota Rules Chapter 7080.1730, item B, is amended as follows:
Dates of preliminary and field evaluations must be dated within 12 months of
the date of the SSTS construction permit application and within 24 months of
the SSTS installation.
   (C)   Minnesota Rules Chapter 7080.1730, item F, is amended to include: the
Department must be notified of any technical requirements of this chapter,
Minn. Rules Chapter 7080, or Chapter 7081, that cannot be met before the design
is completed.
   (D)   Minnesota Rules Chapter 7080.1930, subpart 1, Table V “Septic Tank
Liquid Minimum Capacities (Gallons)”, is amended as follows:
 
                   Tank Size                Tank Size
Number of Bedrooms With Multiple            With Garbage Disposal Pump Tank
                   Compartments or Multiple and/or Lift in the
                   Tanks in Series          Basement
2 or less          1500                     2250                  1000
3 or 4             2000                     3000                  1000
5 or 6             2250                     3375                  1500
7, 8, or 9         3000                     4500                  1500
 
SSTS with a valid certificate of compliance may not be required to meet the
above sizing chart if the tank capacity and soil treatment and dispersal system
meet the current minimum state requirements for the anticipated additional
gallons per day.
   (E)   Minnesota Rules Chapter 7080.2000, item C, is amended as follows: The
top of sewage tanks must not be buried deeper than four feet from final grade.
Exceptions may be made on a case by case basis for existing uses with
extenuating circumstances preventing a shallow burial, not to exceed the tank
manufacturer’s maximum designed depth for the tank. The minimum depth of soil
cover over the insulation on the top of the tank is six inches.
   (F)   Minnesota Rules Chapter 7080.2100, subpart 2, item B, is amended to
include: The pump discharge line must be sleeved with a four-inch PVC pipe from
the edge of the tank or maintenance hole to undisturbed ground.
   (G)   Minnesota Rules Chapter 7080.2150, subpart 2, Table VII, is amended to
include: Setbacks from the soil treatment and dispersal area for above grade
systems, including but not limited to: mound and at grade systems, will be
measured from the toe of the slope to any property line(s) and/or road right-
of-way(s). Setback of ten feet from the SSTS to a swimming pool. Setback of 20
feet from the SSTS to slopes greater than 20%. Setback of 50 feet from the SSTS
to a bluff. Setback of ten feet (20 feet in shoreland areas) to an interceptor
drain.
   (H)   Minnesota Rules Chapter 7080.2220, subpart 2, item B, is amended to
include: Setbacks from the soil treatment and dispersal area for above grade
systems, including but not limited to: mound and at grade systems, will be
measured from the toe of the slope to any property line(s) and/or road right-
of-way(s). Setback of ten feet from the SSTS to a swimming pool. Setback of 20
feet from the SSTS to slopes greater than 20%. Setback of 50 feet from the SSTS
to a bluff. Setback of ten feet (20 feet in shoreland areas) to an interceptor
drain.
   (I)   Minnesota Rules Chapter 7080.2220, subpart 3, item J, is amended as
follows: The entire area that will receive materials for a mound must be
roughened by approved methods.
   (J)   Minnesota Rules Chapter 7080.2230, subpart 2, item C, is amended to
include: Setbacks from the soil treatment and dispersal area for above grade
systems, including but not limited to: mound and at grade systems, will be
measured from the toe of the slope to any property line(s) and/or road right-
of-way(s). Setback of ten feet from the SSTS to a swimming pool. Setback of 20
feet from the SSTS to slopes greater than 20%. Setback of 50 feet from the SSTS
to a bluff. Setback of ten feet (20 feet in shoreland areas) to an interceptor
drain.
   (K)   Minnesota Rules Chapter 7080.2290, item D, is amended as follows: For
a dwelling, the minimum holding tank size is 1,500 gallons or 400 gallons times
the number of bedrooms, whichever is greater. For other establishments, the
minimum holding tank size is 1,500 gallons or at least five times the design
flow, whichever is greater. The required capacity of holding tank(s) in flood
plain areas must be calculated according to Minn. Rules Chapter 7080.2270,
subpart 10.
   (L)   Minnesota Rules Chapter 7080.2350 is amended as follows: Type IV
Systems may be allowed, with the exception of those that would reduce the
required three-foot separation to the periodically saturated soil or to
downsize the required soil treatment and dispersal system. Type IV Systems
installed prior to June 1, 2011 are exempt from this prohibition. When an
advanced treatment device is added to an SSTS (new or existing), pressure
distribution must be provided in the soil treatment and dispersal system.
   (M)   Minnesota Rules Chapter 7080.2400, is amended as follows: Type V
Systems are prohibited. Type V Systems installed prior to June 1, 2011 are
exempt from this prohibition.
   (N)   Minnesota Rules Chapter 7082.0100, subpart 1, item A, is amended as
follows: An SSTS that fails to protect groundwater, as described in Minn. Rules
Chapter 7080.1500, subpart 4, item B, must be brought into compliance within 36
months of the date of the notice of noncompliance, discovery by the Department,
or within ten months from the date of the property transfer, whichever is the
earlier date.
   (O)   Minnesota Rules Chapter 7082.0700, subpart 2, item A1, is amended to
include: Compliance inspections of existing SSTS are required:
      (1)   Before any permit or variance is issued for a property with an SSTS
located in a shoreland area (1,000 feet of a lake, pond, or flowage; or 300
feet of a river or stream, or the landward extent of a floodplain), subject to
the exceptions in Carver County Zoning Code §
152.122.
      (2)   When there is a change in the use of the property or structure(s)
that would affect water use, including but not limited to: a permit or variance
to expand a structure for the purpose of a bedroom, home business, contractor’s
yard, or daycare. The certificate of compliance must also certify that all
components are sized to current State minimum requirements for the additional
bedroom or the change in use.
      (3)   When an SSTS construction permit is required to repair, modify, or
upgrade an existing SSTS.
      (4)   At the time of property sale or transfer, in accordance with §
52.199. Any evaluation, investigation, inspection, recommendation, or other
process used to prepare a disclosure statement, if conducted by a party who is
not the SSTS owner, constitutes a compliance inspection, and must be conducted
in accordance with Minn. Rules Chapter 7080.1500.
      (5)   When there is a division of land pursuant to Carver County Zoning
Code §
152.035(D).
      (6)   During systematic lake or area wide SSTS surveys by the Department
as described in §
52.043.
      (7)   Any time that a building permit is applied for and no record of a
soil treatment and dispersal system exists.
   (P)   Minnesota Rules Chapter 7083.0700, item B, is repealed.
   (Q)   Minnesota Rules Chapter 7083.0700, item F, is amended as follows: An
owner may abandon an SSTS, on property they own, if a final inspection is
conducted by the Department or licensed SSTS professional. An individual or
business, independent of the owner, which abandons an SSTS, must be licensed as
an SSTS professional by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   (R)   Minnesota Rules Chapter 7083.0770, subpart 2, is amended to include:
Submit a tank maintenance report for each SSTS to the Department and the
property owner.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11; Am. Ord. 90-2018, passed 12-18-18)
§ 52.022 SSTS SETBACKS.
   SSTS must be designed and installed to comply with the following minimum
setback distances measured in feet:
                              Soil Treatment and       Building Sewer or Supply
Feature Tank(s)/ Sealed Privy Dispersal Area/ Unsealed Pipes
                              Privy
                     Tank(s)/ Sealed Soil Treatment and    Building Sewer or
Feature              Privy           Dispersal Area/       Supply Pipes
                                     Unsealed Privy
Private, single
family water supply
well with less than
50 feet of casing    50              100                   50
and not encountering
10 feet of
impervious
material.1
Any other private,
single family water
supply well or       50              50                    50
buried water suction
pipe.2
Buried pipe
distributing water   10              10                    10
under pressure.3
Structure(s)4        10              20                    -
                                     10
Property lines and                   Above grade systems
road right-of-ways.4 10              will be measured from
                                     the toe of the
                                     slope.5
Ordinary high
watermark of natural 150             150                   -
environmental
lakes.6
Ordinary high
watermark of
recreational         75              75                    -
development lakes
and protected water
courses.6
Ordinary high
watermark of general 50              50                    -
development lakes.6
Swimming pool.       10              10                    -
Slopes of 20% or     20              20                    -
greater.
Bluff.
(Average grade 25%   50              50
slope and has a 25'
rise in elevation.)
                                     10
Interceptor drains.  -               (20 feet in Shoreland -
                                     Areas.)
 
1 (Minn. Rules Chapter 7080.1710, item B and Minn. Rules Chapter 4725)
2 (Minn. Rules Chapters 4725 and 4714)
3 (Minn. Rules Chapter 4714)
4 (Minn. Rules Chapter 7080.2150 Table VII)
5 (When lot size prohibits meeting the required ten-foot setback from the toe
of the slope, the ten-foot setback may be measured from the absorption area,
with Department approval. A survey provided by the property owner, at the
property owner’s expense, may also be required by the Department.)
6 (Shoreland Management Act and Minn. Rules Chapters 6105 and 6120)
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11; Am. Ord. 90-2018, passed 12-18-18)
§ 52.023 DETERMINATION OF HYDRAULIC LOADING RATE AND SSTS SIZING.
   (A)   Minnesota Rules Chapter 7080.2150, subpart 3, item E, Table IX,
entitled “Loading Rates for Determining Bottom Absorption Area and Absorption
Ratios Using Detail Soil Descriptions” and herein adopted by reference, must be
used to determine the hydraulic loading rate and infiltration area for all SSTS
permitted under this chapter.
   (B)   Percolation testing may also be required per §
52.162(C)(2). Minnesota Rules Chapter 7080.2150, subpart 3, item E, Table IXa,
entitled “Loading Rates for Determining Bottom Absorption Area and Absorption
Ratios Using Percolation Tests” and herein adopted by reference. The larger
sizing factor of the two must be used for the SSTS design.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.024 HOLDING TANKS.
   Holding tanks may be used for single family homes and other structures with
limited water use, as determined by the Department, under the following
conditions.
   (A)   Holding tank(s) may be allowed for structures or pre-existing
dwellings where an SSTS, as described in Minn. Rules Chapter 7080.2210 through
7080.2230, or site conditions described in Minn. Rules Chapter 7081.0270,
subparts 3 through 7, cannot reasonably be installed as determined by the
Department.
   (B)   Septic tank(s) may be allowed temporarily as holding tank(s) for:
      (1)   New residential construction completed when the ground is frozen or
the soil is above the plastic limit not allowing the full soil treatment and
dispersal system to be installed; or
      (2)   Repair of an imminent threat to public health or safety in
accordance with §
52.056.
   (C)   Holding tank(s) must not be used as an SSTS for:
      (1)   New residential construction;
      (2)   Improvements greater than 50% of the assessed value of the
structure at the time of the application for the improvement; or
      (3)   Recreational uses on undeveloped lots of record.
   (D)   A minimum of a 1,500-gallon holding tank must be installed in
accordance with Minn. Rules Chapter 7080.2290.
   (E)   The property owner must provide to the Department a copy of a valid
monitoring and disposal contract executed between the property owner and a
licensed SSTS maintainer, which guarantees the removal of the holding tank
contents in a timely manner that prevents an illegal discharge in accordance
with Minn. Rules Chapter 7082.0100, subpart 3, item G.
   (F)   The property owner must hold a valid contract with a licensed SSTS
maintainer at all times.
   (G)   The licensed SSTS maintainer must certify the date the pumping
occurred, number of gallons removed, any tank leakage below or above the
operating depth, and the treatment facility to which the waste was discharged
and if applicable, water meter reading at the time of pumping. The licensed
SSTS maintainer is to note any safety concerns, troubleshooting or repairs
conducted.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.025 SSTS CONSTRUCTION IN FLOODPLAINS.
   SSTS must not be located in a floodway and wherever possible, location
within any part of a floodplain should be avoided. If no option exists to
locate an SSTS outside of a floodplain, location within the flood fringe is
allowed if the requirements in Minn. Rules Chapter 7080.2270 and all relevant
local requirements are met.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.026 CLASS V INJECTION WELLS.
   All owners of new or replacement SSTS that are considered to be Class V
injection wells, as defined in 40 C.F.R. § 144, are required by the Federal
Government to submit SSTS inventory information to the Environmental Protection
Agency as described in 40 C.F.R. § 144. Further, owners are required to
identify all Class V injection wells in property transfer disclosures.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS RETROACTIVITY
§ 52.040 ALL SSTS.
   Except as explicitly set forth in §
52.041, all provisions of this chapter shall apply to any SSTS regardless of
the date it was originally permitted.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.041 EXISTING SSTS CONSTRUCTION PERMITS.
   Unexpired SSTS construction permits which were issued prior to the effective
date of this chapter shall remain valid until the original expiration date or
until a change in property ownership, whichever is earlier and shall be
governed by the rules in effect at the time the SSTS construction permit was
issued.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.042 SSTS ON LOTS CREATED AFTER JANUARY 23,1996.
   All lots created after January 23, 1996 must have a minimum of two soil
treatment and dispersal areas that can support systems as described in Minn.
Rules Chapters 7080.2210 through 7080.2230, or site conditions described in
Minn. Rules Chapter 7081.0270, subparts 3 through 7, as identified by a
licensed SSTS designer. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to
preserve and protect the soil treatment and dispersal areas from compaction,
building, or other activities which could conceivably limit the use of the
sites for sewage treatment and dispersal.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.043 EXISTING SSTS WITHOUT PERMITS.
   In order to meet water quality goals, the County Board may, from time to
time, adopt by resolution programs to accelerate SSTS compliance. The
resolution may identify specific geographic areas, timelines for compliance,
establish incentives, target specific system types, and may include such other
provisions as necessary to accomplish the goals.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
SSTS UPGRADE, REPAIR, REPLACEMENT, AND ABANDONMENT
§ 52.055 FAILURE TO PROTECT GROUNDWATER.
   An SSTS that is determined not to be protective of groundwater in accordance
with Minn. Rules Chapter 7080.1500, subpart 4, item B, must be connected to a
municipal wastewater treatment system, upgraded, repaired, replaced, or
abandoned in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within 36 months of
the date of the notice of noncompliance, discovery by the Department, or within
ten months from the date of property transfer, whichever is the earlier date.
The Department has the authority to require repair or replacement of the SSTS
sooner than specified above.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.056 IMMINENT THREAT TO PUBLIC HEALTH OR SAFETY.
   An SSTS that is determined to be an imminent threat to public health or
safety in accordance with Minn. Rules Chapter 7080.1500, subpart 4, item A,
must be connected to a municipal wastewater treatment system, upgraded,
repaired, replaced, or abandoned in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter within ten months of the date of the notice of noncompliance or
discovery by the Department, whichever is the earlier date. The Department has
the authority to require repair or replacement of an imminent threat to public
health sooner than specified above. The Department may require the property
owner to:
   (A)   Respond within five business days of notification by submitting a plan
for abating the discharge; or
   (B)   Pump the septic tank(s) as an interim abatement measure.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.057 RESERVED.
§ 52.058 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Any SSTS, or any component thereof, which is no longer intended to be
used, must be abandoned in accordance with Minn. Rules Chapter 7080.2500.
   (B)   A property owner may retain a licensed SSTS business to abandon all
the components of the SSTS, and submit the MPCA’s SSTS Abandonment Reporting
Form to the Department within 30 days of the abandonment, or complete the
abandonment themselves provided a final inspection is conducted by the
Department or a licensed SSTS professional.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
SSTS CONSTRUCTION PERMIT
§ 52.070 SSTS CONSTRUCTION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person, business, firm, or corporation to construct,
install, modify, replace, or operate an SSTS without the appropriate permit
from the Department. The issuing of any permit, variance, or conditional use
under the provisions of the Carver County Zoning Code shall not absolve the
property owner(s) of responsibility to obtain any other required permits.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.071 SSTS CONSTRUCTION PERMIT.
   An SSTS construction permit must be obtained by the property owner, or an
agent of the property owner, from the Department prior to the installation,
construction, replacement, modification, alteration, repair, or capacity
expansion of an SSTS. The purpose of this permit is to ensure that the proposed
construction activity is sited, designed, and constructed in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter by appropriately certified and/or licensed SSTS
professional(s).
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.072 ACTIVITIES REQUIRING AN SSTS CONSTRUCTION PERMIT.
   (A)   An SSTS construction permit is required for the installation of a new
SSTS, replacement of an existing SSTS, or any repair or replacement of
components that will alter the original design, layout, function, treatment
capacity, or location of the system.
   (B)   Rejuvenation and remediation technologies are allowed as prescribed in
Minn. Rules Chapter 7080.2450, subpart 8; or successor rules. These types of
repair technologies are not to be considered a minor repair, and require an
SSTS construction permit as set forth in §
52.071.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.073 ACTIVITIES NOT REQUIRING AN SSTS CONSTRUCTION PERMIT.
   An SSTS construction permit is not required for minor repairs as long as the
repairs do not change the original design, layout, function, treatment
capacity, or location of the system. Examples of such minor repairs include,
but are not limited to: replacement of the pump, floats, alarm, inspection
pipes or caps, maintenance hole risers, or tank baffles.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.074 SSTS CONSTRUCTION PERMIT REQUIRED TO OBTAIN BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   For any property on which an SSTS construction permit is required,
approval and issuance of a valid SSTS construction permit must be obtained in
conjunction with a building or land use permit issued by the Carver County
Public Services Division.
   (B)   Failure to submit an existing SSTS compliance inspection for a
property transfer, pursuant to § 52.199, will result in all future building or
land use permit application(s) for the property to be denied until a
certificate of compliance is submitted for the existing SSTS, or an escrow
account is established and an SSTS construction permit is issued.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11; Am. Ord. 90-2018, passed 12-18-18) Penalty, see
§
52.999
§ 52.075 CONFORMANCE TO PREVAILING REQUIREMENTS.
   Any activity involving an existing SSTS that requires an SSTS construction
permit shall require that the entire SSTS be brought into compliance with Minn.
Rules Chapter 7080.1500 and verification of any existing tank(s) proposed for
reuse must meet Minn. Rules Chapter 7080.2010, subpart 1, item A.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.076 SSTS CONSTRUCTION PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   SSTS construction permit applications must be made on forms provided by the
Department and signed by the property owner and the licensed SSTS installer
including the installer’s certification number and date of expiration. The
applications must include the documents listed in divisions (A) through (E)
below.
   (A)   Name, mailing address, telephone number, and email address.
   (B)   Property Identification Number and address or other description of
property location.
   (C)   Site evaluation report as described in Minn. Rules Chapter 7080.1730.
   (D)   Design report as described in Minn. Rules Chapter 7080.2430.
   (E)   SSTS management plan and/or operating permit application as described
in Minn. Rules Chapter 7082.0600.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.077 SSTS CONSTRUCTION PERMIT APPLICATION REVIEW AND RESPONSE.
   The Department is authorized to review an SSTS construction permit
application and supporting documents. Upon the Department’s satisfaction that
the proposed work will conform to the provisions of this chapter, a written
permit authorizing construction of the SSTS as designed may be issued. In the
event the applicant makes a significant change to the approved SSTS
construction permit, the applicant must file an amended SSTS construction
permit application and SSTS management plan detailing the changed conditions
prior to initiating or continuing SSTS construction, modification, or operation
for approval or denial.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.078 SSTS CONSTRUCTION PERMIT DENIED.
   If an application for an SSTS construction permit is denied, notice of
denial, including reasons for said denial, will be mailed to the address set
forth in the SSTS construction permit application.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.079 APPEAL.
   (A)   Hearing. An appeal from any order, requirement, decision, or
determination from the Department shall be heard by the Board of Adjustment
pursuant to Carver County Zoning Code, §
152.214.
   (B)   Stay of action. An appeal stays all proceeding and furtherance of the
action appealed from unless the Board of Adjustment certifies that by reason of
the facts stated in the certificate the stay would cause imminent peril to life
or property.
   (C)   Action to Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment may reverse or
affirm wholly or partly or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or
determination appealed from and to that end shall have all of the powers of the
officer from whom the appeal was taken and may direct issuance of the permit.
The reasons for the Board of Adjustment’s decision shall be stated in writing.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.080 SSTS CONSTRUCTION PERMIT EXPIRATION.
   The SSTS construction permit is valid for a period of one year from its date
of issue, provided the preliminary and field evaluations for the SSTS design
were completed within 24 months of the date of the SSTS installation.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.081 FEES.
   The County Board has the authority to establish fees for activities
undertaken by the Department pursuant to this chapter. Fees shall be due and
payable at a time and in a manner to be determined by the Department.
Construction started before an SSTS construction permit has been obtained shall
be charged twice the current SSTS construction permit fee.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.082 SSTS CONSTRUCTION PERMIT TRANSFERABILITY.
   An SSTS construction permit shall not be transferred to a new property owner
or different licensed SSTS installer. The new property owner or licensed SSTS
installer must amend the SSTS construction permit in accordance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.083 SSTS CONSTRUCTION PERMIT SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Department may suspend or revoke an SSTS construction permit
issued under this chapter for any false statements, erroneous or inaccurate
data supplied by the property owner or licensed SSTS designer, or revised
interpretation of the law by the Department or a building official,
misrepresentations of facts on which the SSTS construction permit was issued or
unauthorized changes to the SSTS.
   (B)   A notice of suspension or revocation and the reasons for the
suspension or revocation shall be conveyed in writing to the property owner and
the licensed SSTS installer.
   (C)   If suspended or revoked, installation or modification of an SSTS may
not commence or continue until a valid SSTS construction permit is obtained.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.084 SSTS CONSTRUCTION PERMIT POSTING.
   The SSTS construction permit must be posted on the property in such a
location and manner so that the SSTS construction permit is visible and
available for inspection until SSTS construction is completed and a certificate
of compliance is issued.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
SSTS MANAGEMENT PLAN
§ 52.095 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of an SSTS management plan is to describe how a particular SSTS
is intended to be operated and maintained to sustain the performance required.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.096 SSTS REQUIRING MANAGEMENT PLANS.
   SSTS management plans are required for all new or replacement SSTS. The SSTS
management plan must be submitted to the property owner and the Department with
the SSTS construction permit application.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.097 REQUIRED CONTENTS OF AN SSTS MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   SSTS management plans shall include:
   (A)   Operating requirements describing tasks that the property owner can
perform and tasks that a licensed SSTS service provider or maintainer must
perform;
   (B)   Monitoring requirements;
   (C)   Maintenance requirements including maintenance procedures and a
schedule for routine maintenance;
   (D)   Statement that the property owner is required to notify the Department
when the SSTS management plan requirements are not being met;
   (E)   Disclosure of the location and condition of the additional soil
treatment and dispersal area on the owner’s property or a property serving the
owner’s residence; and
   (F)   Other requirements as determined by the Department.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.098 REQUIREMENTS FOR SSTS NOT OPERATED UNDER A MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   SSTS that are not operated under an SSTS management plan must have sewage
treatment tanks inspected and provide for the removal of solids if needed every
three years. Solids must be removed when their accumulation meets the limit
described in Minn. Rules Chapter 7080.2450.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
SSTS OPERATING PERMIT
§ 52.110 SSTS REQUIRING AN OPERATING PERMIT.
   (A)   An SSTS operating permit shall be required of all owners of new Type
IV, Type V, MSTS, or any other SSTS deemed by the Department to require
operational oversight. Sewage effluent must not be discharged to the soil
treatment and dispersal system until the Department certifies that the SSTS was
installed in substantial conformance, as determined by the Department with the
approved plans and a valid SSTS operating permit is issued to the property
owner.
   (B)   Type IV, Type V, and MSTS installed prior to the effective date of
this chapter shall require an SSTS operating permit upon identification by the
Department, transfer of ownership, replacement, modification, or expansion of
the SSTS that requires an SSTS construction permit, or following any SSTS
enforcement action.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11; Am. Ord. 90-2018, passed 12-18-18) Penalty, see
§
52.999
§ 52.111 SSTS OPERATING PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Application for an SSTS operating permit must be made on a form provided by
the Department including:
   (A)   Property owner’s name, mailing address, telephone, and email address;
   (B)   SSTS construction permit reference number and date of issue;
   (C)   Final record drawings of the SSTS; and
   (D)   SSTS operating permit contracts. The owner of a Type IV, Type V, MSTS,
or any other SSTS deemed by the Department to require operational oversight
must hold a valid contract with a licensed SSTS service provider at all times,
until the time the SSTS is properly abandoned.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.112 SSTS OPERATING PERMIT DEPARTMENT RESPONSE.
   The Department is authorized to review the SSTS record drawings, operation
and maintenance manual management plan, maintenance and servicing contract, and
any other pertinent documents as appropriate for accuracy and completeness. If
any deficiencies are identified, the SSTS operating permit shall be denied
until the deficiencies are corrected to the satisfaction of the Department.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.113 SSTS OPERATING PERMIT TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   The SSTS operating permit must include the following:
   (A)   SSTS performance and operating requirements;
   (B)   Maintenance requirements and frequency;
   (C)   Monitoring locations, procedures, and recording requirements;
   (D)   Compliance limits and boundaries;
   (E)   Reporting requirements of monitoring and maintenance;
   (F)   Requirement that the property owner and licensed SSTS service provider
must notify the Department when the SSTS operating permit requirements are not
being met;
   (G)   Disclosure of the location and condition of the alternate SSTS
location;
   (H)   Stipulation of acceptable and prohibited discharges; and
   (I)   Valid contract between the property owner and a licensed SSTS
maintenance business or service provider.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.114 SSTS OPERATING PERMIT EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   SSTS operating permits shall be valid for the specific term stated on
the permit as determined by the Department.
   (B)   An SSTS operating permit must be renewed prior to its expiration. If
not renewed, the Department may require the SSTS to be removed from service or
operated as a holding tank until the SSTS operating permit is renewed. If not
renewed within 30 calendar days of the expiration date, the Department may
require that the SSTS be abandoned in accordance with §
52.058.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.115 AMENDMENTS TO EXISTING SSTS OPERATING PERMITS NOT ALLOWED.
   The Department may not amend an existing SSTS operating permit to reflect
changes in this chapter until the permit term has expired, unless an amendment
is necessary to eliminate an imminent threat to public health or safety.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.116 SSTS OPERATING PERMITS NOT TRANSFERRABLE.
   A new property owner must apply for an SSTS operating permit in accordance
with §
52.111 of this chapter. The Department must not terminate the current SSTS
operating permit until 60 calendar days after the date of the property
transfer. To consider the new property owner’s application, the Department may
require monitoring by a licensed SSTS service provider in accordance to §
52.118.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.117 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF SSTS OPERATING PERMITS.
   (A)   The Department may suspend or revoke any SSTS operating permit issued
under this section for any false statements or misrepresentations of facts on
which the SSTS operating permit was issued or if an imminent threat to public
health exists.
   (B)   Notice of suspension or revocation and the reasons for revocation must
be conveyed in writing to the property owner.
   (C)   If suspended or revoked, the Department may require that the SSTS be
removed from service, operated as a holding tank, or abandoned in accordance
with §
52.058.
   (D)   At the Department’s discretion, the SSTS operating permit may be
reinstated or renewed upon the property owner taking appropriate corrective
actions.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.118 MONITORING REQUIREMENTS FOR SSTS OPERATING PERMITS.
   (A)   Monitoring of an SSTS must be performed by a licensed SSTS service
provider hired by the holder of the SSTS operating permit in accordance with
the monitoring frequency and parameters stipulated in the SSTS operating
permit.
   (B)   A monitoring report must be prepared and certified by the licensed
SSTS service provider. The report must be submitted to the Department on or
before the reporting date stipulated in the SSTS operating permit. The report
must contain a description of all maintenance and servicing activities
performed since the last monitoring report as described below:
      (1)   Property owner’s name and address;
      (2)   SSTS operating permit number;
      (3)   Average daily flow since last monitoring report;
      (4)   Description of type of maintenance and date performed;
      (5)   Description of samples taken (if required), analytical laboratory
used, and results of analyses;
      (6)   Problems noted with the SSTS, and actions proposed, or taken, to
correct them; and
      (7)   Name, signature, and license number of the licensed SSTS service
provider who performed the work.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
PROHIBITIONS
§ 52.130 OCCUPANCY OR USE OF A STRUCTURE WITHOUT A COMPLIANT SSTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to maintain, occupy, or use any dwelling or
structure with plumbing that is not:
   (A)   Connected to a municipal wastewater treatment system; or
   (B)   Provided with an SSTS that disposes of wastewater in a manner that
complies with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.131 SEWAGE DISCHARGE TO GROUND SURFACE OR SURFACE WATER.
   It is unlawful for any person to construct, maintain, or use any SSTS,
regulated under this chapter, that results in raw or partially treated
wastewater seeping to the ground surface or flowing into any surface water. Any
surface discharging system must be permitted under the National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System program by the MPCA.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.132 SEWAGE DISCHARGE TO A WELL OR BORING.
   It is unlawful for any person to discharge raw or treated wastewater into
any well or boring as described in Minn. Rules Chapter 4725.2050, or any other
excavation in the ground that is not in compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.133 DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS OR DELETERIOUS MATERIALS.
   It is unlawful for any person to discharge into any SSTS, regulated under
this chapter, any hazardous or deleterious material that adversely affects the
treatment or dispersal performance of the system or groundwater quality.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.134 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   A licensed SSTS inspector working on behalf of a local unit of government
must not design or install SSTS that the inspector/business will be responsible
for permitting or inspecting as part of its local government duties. A person
working for or on behalf of a local unit of government is not allowed to use
the person’s position to solicit for private business gain.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
VARIANCES
§ 52.145 VARIANCE REQUESTS.
   A property owner may request a variance from the standards as specified in
this chapter pursuant to county policies and procedures.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.146 AFFECTED AGENCY.
   Variances that pertain to the standards and requirements of the State of
Minnesota must be approved by the affected State Agency pursuant to the
requirements of the State Agency.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, §
52.999
§ 52.147 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment has the authority to consider variances in
accordance with Minn. Rules Chapters 7080, 7081, and 7082. Variances shall only
be allowed when they are in harmony with the general purposes and intent of
this chapter where there are practical difficulties or particular hardship in
meeting,the strict letter of this chapter. Applicants must follow the
requirements of Carver County Zoning Code §
152.215.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment may not grant variances to the following
standards:
      (1)   Flow determinations under Minn. Rules Chapter 7081.0110, if the
deviation reduces the average daily estimated flow from greater than 10,000
gallons per day to less than 10,000 gallons per day;
      (2)   Provisions in Minn. Rules Chapter 7080.2150, subpart 2, items A
through D, and 7081.0080, subparts 2 through 5, regarding the vertical
separation required beneath the distribution media and saturated soil or
bedrock from the required three feet of unsaturated soil material, except as
provided in Minn. Rules Chapter 7080.2350, must be approved by MPCA; and
      (3)   Variances to wells and water supply lines must be approved by the
Minnesota Department of Health.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
SSTS PRACTITIONER LICENSING
§ 52.160 SSTS PRACTITIONER LICENSING.
   No person shall engage in site evaluation, inspection, design, installation,
construction, alteration, extension, repair, maintenance, or pumping of an SSTS
without an appropriate and valid license issued by the MPCA, except as exempted
in §
52.161.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.161 SSTS BUSINESS LICENSE EXEMPTIONS.
   An SSTS business license is not required for:
   (A)   An individual who is a qualified employee performing work as directed
by a state or local government employer;
   (B)   A property owner who properly abandons an SSTS provided a final
inspection is conducted by the Department or licensed SSTS professional;
   (C)   An individual who performs supervised labor or services as an employee
of a licensed SSTS business;
   (D)   A farmer who pumps septage from an SSTS that serves dwellings or other
establishments that are owned or leased by the farmer and applies septage on
land that is owned or leased by the farmer;
   (E)   A property owner, who personally gathers existing information,
evaluates, and investigates an SSTS, to provide a disclosure as defined in M.S.
§ 155.55, subd. 6, for a dwelling that is owned by the individual and functions
solely as a dwelling or seasonal dwelling for that individual;
   (F)   An individual who maintains a toilet waste treatment device for a
dwelling that is owned by the individual and functions solely as a dwelling or
seasonal dwelling for that individual;
   (G)   An individual who performs tasks identified in the SSTS management
plan, that does not require an SSTS maintainer or service provider license, for
a dwelling that is owned by the individual and functions solely as a dwelling
or seasonal dwelling for that individual; or
   (H)   The owner or designee of a campground or other similar facility who
removes and transports sewage wastes from recreational vehicles into a holding
or treatment system located on the same property as the facility.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.162 SSTS LICENSED DESIGNER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It is the responsibility of the licensed SSTS designer to submit a design of
sufficient detail to allow adequate review for compliance by the Department. At
a minimum the following is required.
   (A)   A detailed design using worksheets approved by the Department.
   (B)   The soil observation data must be dated within 12 months of the date
of the SSTS construction permit application and verify that there are two soil
treatment and dispersal areas, that can support systems as described in Minn.
Rules Chapters 7080.2210 through 7080.2230, or site conditions described in
Minn. Rules Chapter 7081.0270, subparts 3 through 7, available on the lot. Lots
existing prior to January 23, 1996 must provide for one complete SSTS.
   (C)   The site plan must be drawn to scale, include a north arrow,
horizontal, and vertical reference points for the proposed SSTS. The site plan
must also include:
      (1)   The location of all soil observations and other testing, all wells
and their depth(s) within 100 feet of the proposed SSTS, and water lines within
50 feet;
      (2)   Any evidence of cut, filled, disturbed, compacted, or other
unsuitable soil on the lot. SSTS proposed in these areas may require a method
to determine the timed rate of water flowing through the soil. Acceptable
methods include, but are not limited to: percolation tests, permeameter tests,
and infiltrometer tests;
      (3)   The distance from proposed SSTS to all other required setbacks
including: existing or proposed structures, or improvements, easements,
ordinary high water level, property line(s), and road right-of-way(s);
      (4)   Slope with percent and direction; and
      (5)   Elevations of the soil observations, periodically saturated soils,
and the proposed bottom of the soil treatment and dispersal system in reference
to a bench mark. Flood elevation and/or OHW, are to be included if applicable.
   (D)   The center of each trench, corners of the bed, and any toe slopes must
be staked. The entire area is to be protected from disturbance, compaction, or
other damage by installing snow or silt fence when there is any other
construction proposed on the property. SSTS soils altered by construction
traffic or other means will require a revised design be submitted to the
Department along with any required fees.
   (E)   If a proposed SSTS design cannot meet a technical requirement of this
chapter, Minn. Rules Chapter 7080 or Chapter 7081, it is the responsibility of
the licensed SSTS designer to contact the Department before the design is
completed.
   (F)   Reuse of any tank(s) for a replacement SSTS must include the MPCA tank
integrity and safety compliance form and be included with the SSTS design and
SSTS construction permit application.
   (G)   Submit any additional requirements as may be required by the
Department or the MPCA.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.163 SSTS LICENSED INSTALLER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It is the responsibility of the licensed SSTS installer to:
   (A)   Verify the SSTS layout and placement proper soil moisture conditions
for excavation, elevations of sewage tanks, and soil treatment and dispersal
system;
   (B)   Ensure all work is installed in strict accordance with the design as
approved by the Department. If the system is not or cannot be constructed as
designed, it shall be the responsibility of the licensed SSTS installer to
inform the licensed SSTS designer and the Department. If proposed changes are
approved by the licensed SSTS designer and the Department, it shall be the
responsibility of the licensed SSTS installer to submit new or amended designs
to the Department before completing construction;
   (C)   Follow recommended standards and guidance documents for registered
products, check the quality of tanks, and other materials used;
   (D)   Schedule required inspections with the Department before 3:00 p.m. the
day before an inspection or reinspection is requested.
      (1)   Failure of the licensed SSTS installer to cancel an inspection, at
least one hour before the scheduled time, will result in a penalty fee as set
forth in the Carver County Fee Schedule.
      (2)   Failure to pay the penalty fee will result in a freeze on all
future SSTS inspections for the affected property until the penalty fee has
been paid.
      (3)   Upon inspection, any part of the SSTS that is determined, by the
Department, not to be in compliance with this chapter, Minn. Rules Chapters
7080 or 7081, must be properly corrected and reinspected before a certificate
of compliance is issued.
      (4)   Additional inspections required due to violations of this chapter
will be subject to a re-inspection fee as set forth in the Carver County Fee
Schedule. The re-inspection payment must be received by the Department within
ten days following the re-inspection.
      (5)   If the Department is unable to complete an inspection, the licensed
SSTS installer is to take photographs of critical construction phases. The
photos are to be submitted along with an as built and any other requested
documentation to the Department. The certificate of compliance will not be
issued until the Department has reviewed the submitted documentation.
      (6)   Lack of inspection(s) by the Department shall not relieve or lessen
the responsibility or liability of any person owning, operating, controlling,
monitoring, or installing any SSTS;
   (E)   Uncover, upon request from the Department, any work which is
backfilled prior to scheduled inspection(s) to determine compliance;
   (F)   Provide, upon request from the Department, a copy of the final
electrical report to the Department within ten working days of the request. The
Department may withhold issuing a final certificate of compliance if the
electrical report is not received by the Department when requested; and
   (G)   Fulfill any additional requirements as may be required by the
Department or the MPCA.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.164 SSTS LICENSED MAINTAINER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It is the responsibility of the licensed SSTS maintainer to:
   (A)   Have equipment capable of agitating the contents of the tank(s);
   (B)   Thoroughly remove sludge and scum through the maintenance holes. If
the property owner or owner’s agent refuses to allow removal through the
maintenance hole, the maintainer must obtain a signed statement from the
property owner or owner’s agent, stating said parties were informed of correct
removal procedures and reason for refusal. A copy of this statement must be
submitted to the Department within 30 days of the pumping;
   (C)   Note any sensory observations of nondomestic wastes that have been
discharged into the SSTS;
   (D)   Assess the condition of baffles, effluent screens, maintenance hole
covers and extensions;
   (E)   Verify that the tank(s) and all connections are watertight;
   (F)   Submit a tank maintenance report for each property on forms approved
by the Department, to the Department and the property owner. The amount pumped,
method, and location of septage disposal must also be included on the form;
   (G)   Remove all septage from the tank(s) in a sealed container and dispose
of in accordance with state, federal, and local requirements.
      (1)   If septage is to be disposed of into a municipally-controlled
wastewater treatment system or into a Metropolitan Waste Control Commission
facility, it must be disposed of in a location and manner approved by said
governmental authority.
      (2)   If septage is to be disposed of using land application, Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) Septage and Restaurant Grease Trap Waste
Management Guidelines, Water/Wastewater-ISTS #4.20, must be followed; and
   (H)   Fulfill any additional requirements as may be required by the
Department or the MPCA.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.165 SSTS LICENSED SERVICE PROVIDER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It is the responsibility of the licensed SSTS service provider to:
   (A)   Assess the operational status and SSTS performance by sampling,
measuring, and observing, to verify compliance with the SSTS management plan or
operating permit;
   (B)   Preserve, store, and ship samples for analysis and interpret sampling
results;
   (C)   Adjust, repair, or replace components to bring the SSTS into proper
operational compliance;
   (D)   Report sampling results, operational observations, system adjustments,
and other management activities, in compliance with local ordinances. SSTS
management plans or operating permit requirements, before December 1st each
year to the property owner and the Department;
   (E)   Observe and provide written reports of any noncompliance to the
property owner and the Department within 30 days; and
   (F)   Fulfill any additional requirements as may be required by the
Department or the MPCA.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.166 SSTS LICENSED INSPECTOR RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It is the responsibility of the licensed SSTS inspector to:
   (A)   Submit the completed Minnesota Pollution Control Agency compliance
inspection form for Existing SSTS to the Department and the property owner
within 15 calendar days from the date of the inspection; and
   (B)   Fulfill any additional requirements as may be required by the
Department or the MPCA.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.167 PERIODICALLY SATURATED SOIL DISAGREEMENTS.
   If a documented discrepancy arises on the depth of the periodically
saturated soil between licensed individuals for SSTS design or compliance
purposes, all disputing parties must follow the procedure outlined in Minn.
Rules Chapter 7082.0700, subpart 5.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 52.180 PUBLIC EDUCATION OUTREACH.
   Programs may be provided by the Department and/or others to increase public
awareness and knowledge of SSTS. Programs may include distribution of
educational materials through various forms of media and SSTS workshops
focusing on SSTS planning, construction, operation, maintenance, and
management.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.181 RECORD KEEPING.
   The Department will maintain records of SSTS construction permit
applications, issued SSTS construction permits, fees assessed, variance
requests, certificates of compliance, notices of Noncompliance, enforcement
proceedings, site evaluation reports, design reports, record drawings,
management plans, operating permits maintenance reports, an annual list of all
sewage tanks installed in the county sorted by licensed SSTS installers, and
other records relevant to each SSTS.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.182 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Department shall provide an annual report of SSTS permitting activities
to the MPCA.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
SSTS COMPLIANCE INSPECTION PROGRAM
§ 52.195 DEPARTMENT RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Department, or its agent, is authorized to perform various SSTS
inspections to assure that the requirements of this chapter are met.
   (A)   The Department must be given access to enter a property at any
reasonable time to inspect and/or monitor the SSTS. As used in this division,
“property” does not include a residence or private dwelling.
   (B)   No person shall hinder or otherwise interfere with the Department’s
performance of their duties and responsibilities pursuant to this chapter.
Refusal to allow reasonable access to the property by the Department shall be
deemed a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.196 NEW SSTS CONSTRUCTION OR REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   Inspections must be performed on new or replacement SSTS to determine
compliance with Minn. Rules Chapters 7080 or Chapter 7081, by a qualified
employee or licensed SSTS inspection business, authorized by the Department,
who is independent of the property owner and the licensed SSTS installer.
      (1)   Inspections for Type I SSTS may include, but are not limited to:
soil verification, pre-rough up (if needed), tank installation, distribution
media/pipe installation, and final inspection.
      (2)   Inspections for all other SSTS types will include applicable Type I
SSTS inspections, and additional inspections, as determined necessary by the
Department.
   (B)   The soil treatment and dispersal system must not be placed into
operation until a certificate of compliance has been issued.
   (C)   A certificate of compliance must be issued by the Department, if the
Department has reasonable assurance that the SSTS was built in accordance with
the applicable requirements as specified in the SSTS construction permit.
   (D)   The certificate of compliance must include a certified statement by
the qualified employee or licensed SSTS inspector, authorized by the Department
who conducted the inspection that the SSTS is or is not in compliance with the
chapter requirements.
   (E)   Certificates of compliance for new SSTS construction or replacement
shall remain valid for five years from the date of issue, unless the Department
finds evidence of noncompliance.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.197 EXISTING SSTS COMPLIANCE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Compliance inspections of existing SSTS are required:
      (1)   Before any permit or variance is issued for a property with an SSTS
located in a shoreland area (1,000 feet of a lake, pond, or flowage; or 300
feet of a river or stream, or the landward extent of a floodplain), subject to
the exceptions in Carver County Zoning Code §
152.122;
      (2)   When there is a change in the use of the property or structure(s)
that would affect water use, including but are limited to: a permit or variance
to expand a structure for the purpose of a bedroom, home business, contractor’s
yard, or daycare. The certificate of compliance must also certify that all
components are sized to state minimum requirements for the additional bedroom
or the change in use;
      (3)   When an SSTS construction permit is required to repair, modify, or
upgrade an existing SSTS;
      (4)   At the time of property sale or transfer, in accordance with §
52.199. Any evaluation, investigation, inspection, recommendation, or other
process used to prepare a disclosure statement, if conducted by a party who is
not the SSTS owner, constitutes a compliance inspection, and must be conducted
in accordance with Minn. Rules Chapter 7080.1500;
      (5)   When there is a division of land pursuant to Carver County Zoning
Code §
152.035(D);
      (6)   During systematic lake or area wide SSTS surveys by the Department
as described in §
52.043; and
      (7)   Any time that a building permit is applied for and no record of a
soil treatment and dispersal system exists.
   (B)   When a compliance inspection is required and cannot be completed, due
to frost conditions, during the period of November 1 to April 30, permits or
land use application(s) pursuant to division (A) of this section can be issued
provided an escrow account is provided in the amount set forth in the Carver
County Fee Schedule. A compliance inspection must be performed before the
following June 1 and/or the SSTS is brought into compliance by the following
September 30.
   (C)   Compliance inspections of existing SSTS must be reported on the
inspection report forms provided by MPCA. The following conditions, must be
assessed or verified:
      (1)   Tank watertightness assessment must be completed by pumping all of
the tanks. A valid tank integrity report from a licensed SSTS maintainer must
be provided;
      (2)   A soil separation compliance assessment must be completed by a
licensed inspection business or a qualified employee inspector with
jurisdiction. Compliance must be determined either by conducting new soil
observations or by prior soil separation documentation made by two independent
parties. The soil observations used for system design or previous inspections
are allowed to be used if they contain the information required in Minn. Rules
Chapter 7080.1720, subpart 5, items B, D, and F. If the soil separation has
been verified by two independent parties, a subsequent determination is not
required unless requested by the owner or owner’s agent;
      (3)   Sewage backup, surface seepage, or surface discharge including a
hydraulic function report; and
      (4)   Compliance with the SSTS management plan or SSTS operating permit
if applicable.
   (D)   The certificate of compliance must include a certified statement by a
licensed SSTS inspector, indicating whether the SSTS is in compliance with
chapter requirements. If the SSTS is determined not to be in compliance with
the applicable requirements, a notice of noncompliance must include a statement
specifying those chapter provisions with which the SSTS does not comply.
   (E)   SSTS that are determined to have operation or monitoring deficiencies
must immediately be maintained, monitored, or otherwise managed according to
the SSTS operating permit.
   (F)   SSTS found to be noncompliant with other applicable requirements must
be brought into compliance with this chapter within the timeframes established
in §
52.055 and §
52.056.
   (G)   The certificate of compliance or notice of noncompliance must be
submitted to the Department no later than 15 calendar days after the date the
existing SSTS compliance inspection was performed.
   (H)   Certificates of compliance for existing SSTS shall remain valid for
three years from the date of issue unless the Department finds evidence of
noncompliance.
   (I)   The Department may waive an existing SSTS compliance inspection
required by this chapter, if the owner of the real property served by an
existing SSTS acknowledges in writing to the Department that the existing SSTS
is not compliant and will be brought into compliance with this chapter within
ten months.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.198 COMPLIANCE CRITERIA FOR EXISTING SSTS.
   (A)   SSTS that were built before April 1, 1996, are outside of areas
designated as shoreland and wellhead protection areas, and do not service a
food, beverage, or lodging establishment, must have at least two feet of
vertical separation between the bottom of the distribution media and the
periodically saturated soil and/or bedrock. The vertical separation measurement
must be made outside the area of system influence but in an area of similar
soil.
   (B)   SSTS built after March 31, 1996 or SSTS located in a shoreland area,
wellhead protection area, or serving a food, beverage, or lodging establishment
as defined in Minn. Rules Chapter 7080.1100, subpart 84, must have three feet
of vertical separation between the bottom of the distribution media and the
periodically saturated soil and/or bedrock. The vertical separation measurement
must be made outside the area of system influence but in an area of similar
soil. Existing SSTS that have no more than a 15% reduction in this separation
distance (a separation distance no less than 30.6 inches) to account for
settling of sand or soil, normal variation of separation distance measurements,
and interpretation of limiting layer characteristics, may be considered
compliant under this chapter.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.199 TRANSFER OF PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Whenever a conveyance of land occurs, the following requirements shall
be met:
      (1)   The seller of the property is responsible for providing a completed
Carver County point of sale certificate and MPCA existing SSTS compliance
inspection form, with any required attachments, to the buyer at or before
closing. These documents shall provide the status and location of all known
SSTS and components thereof on the property and, if applicable, the
requirements for bringing the SSTS into compliance with this chapter;
      (2)   The buyer is responsible to file the Carver County point of sale
certificate, and required attachments, along with the certificate of real
estate value at the County Auditor’s Office; and
      (3)   If the seller fails to provide a certificate of compliance,
sufficient security must be established in the form of an escrow account to
assure the installation of a complying SSTS. The security, in the amount set
forth in the Carver County Fee Schedule, shall be placed in an escrow with a
licensed real estate closer, licensed attorney-at-law, or federal or state
chartered financial institution. The SSTS must be installed within the time
frame established in §§
52.055 and
52.056. After a complying SSTS has been installed and a certificate of
compliance issued, the escrow may be released.
   (B)   The MPCA existing SSTS compliance inspection form need not be obtained
if the sale or transfer involves one of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Tract of land is vacant or contains no structures with plumbing
fixtures;
      (2)   The SSTS serving the existing dwelling or other structure with
plumbing has been abandoned per §
52.058. Attach the MPCA’s SSTS abandonment reporting form;
      (3)   The transfer does not require the filing of a certificate of real
estate value, as described in M.S. § 272.115;
      (4)   The transfer is a foreclosure or tax forfeiture. This subsection
applies only for the transfer from the original mortgagee, to the financial/
lending institution or local unit of government. The subsequent transfer shall
meet the requirements of this chapter;
      (5)   A refinance of a property;
      (6)   The sale or transfer is to the seller’s spouse or ex-spouse only.
The sale or transfer may be by deed, through a joint tenancy, of a testamentary
nature, or by trust document;
      (7)   The sale or transfer completes a contract for deed or purchase
agreement entered into prior to February 24, 1998. This division applies only
to the original vendor and vendee on such a contract; or
      (8)   Dwellings or other structures connected exclusively to a municipal
wastewater treatment system. Including 201 systems which discharge directly to
the Metropolitan Council Environmental Services interceptor/collector sewer and
do not utilize a septic tank(s) or soil treatment and disposal system.
   (C)   All property conveyances subject to this chapter occurring during the
period between November 1st and April 30th, and SSTS compliance cannot be
determined due to frozen soil conditions, shall have an escrow account
established pursuant to the Carver County Fee Schedule. The buyer is
responsible to have the compliance inspection completed by the following June
1st by a licensed SSTS inspector. If, upon inspection, the SSTS is found to be
in compliance, the funds in escrow may be released. If, upon inspection, the
SSTS is found to be non-compliant, the SSTS shall be brought into compliance
within ten months from the date of property transfer.
   (D)   Should the seller fail to have the compliance inspection completed,
and neither party established an escrow account, the buyer of the property
becomes wholly responsible and shall have a certificate of compliance on the
existing SSTS submitted to the Department within 30 days of the property
transfer or have the SSTS brought into compliance within 90 days of the
property transfer.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11) Penalty, see §
52.999
ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.210 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The Department is authorized to serve, in person or by mail, a notice of
violation to any person determined to be violating provisions of this chapter.
The notice of violation may contain:
   (A)   A statement documenting the findings of fact determined through
observations, inspections, or investigations;
   (B)   A list of specific violation(s) of this chapter;
   (C)   Specific requirements for correction or removal of the specified
violation(s); and/or
   (D)   A mandatory time schedule for correction, removal, and compliance with
this chapter.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.211 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   Cease and desist orders may be issued when the Department has probable cause
that an activity regulated by this, or any other provision of this chapter, is
being, or has been conducted without an SSTS construction permit, or in
violation of an SSTS construction permit. When work has been stopped by a cease
and desist order, the work shall not resume until the reason for die work
stoppage has been completely satisfied, any administrative fees paid and the
cease and desist order lifted.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11; Am. Ord. 90-2018, passed 12-18-18)
§ 52.212 CIVIL REMEDIES.
   In the event of a violation or a threat of a violation of this chapter, the
county may institute appropriate civil actions or proceedings, including
injunctive relief, to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate such violations or
threat of violations. The county may recover costs incurred for corrective
action in a civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction, and such costs
may be certified by court order to the County Auditor as a special tax against
the real property. These and other remedies, as determined appropriate by the
county, may be imposed upon the property owner, permittee, licensed SSTS
installer, or other responsible person, either in addition to or separate from
other enforcement actions.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.213 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the county, and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any
other powers granted by Minnesota Statutes.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, agent, or corporation who violates any of the provisions
of this chapter, or who fails, neglects, or refuses to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, including violations of conditions and safeguards,
or who knowingly makes any material false statement, or knowing omission in any
document required to be submitted under the provisions hereof, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as defined by
Minnesota State Statutes. Each day that a violation exists shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 67-2010, passed 5-17-11)
CHAPTER 53: OPEN BURNING
Section
   
53.01   Purpose, scope and authority
   
53.02   General provisions
   
53.03   Standards adopted
   
53.04   Administration and enforcement
   
53.05   Permit holder responsibility
   
53.06   Prohibited materials
   
53.07   Permit required for open burning
   
53.08   Purposes allowed for open burning
   
53.09   Permit application for open burning and permit fees
   
53.10   Permit process for open burning
   
53.11   Revocation of open burning permit
   
53.12   Denial of open burning permit
   
53.13   Burning ban, burning restrictions or air quality alert
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 PURPOSE, SCOPE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This subchapter regulates the disposal, by the method of burning, of
solid waste materials in Carver County. If a local requirement is more
restrictive than the requirement found in this subchapter, the local
requirement will supersede the county requirement. This subchapter has been
adopted by the Carver County Board of Commissioners to protect the public’s
health and prevent nuisance; to protect air and ground water resources; to
minimize reliance upon disposal by burning; to promote waste abatement such as
recycling and composting; and to supplement and support Carver County and State
of Minnesota controls over open burning.
   (B)   This subchapter establishes standards for the regulation of open
burning activities in Carver County, Minnesota. This subchapter requires that
appropriate permits be obtained from the Department of Natural Resources (DNR)
for the purpose of open burns.
(Ord. 5B, passed 6-26-01; Am. Ord. 73-2012, passed 3-20-12)
§ 53.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. The following words and phrases, when used in this
subchapter, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section.
      AGRICULTURAL FIRE. Open burning for the purpose of disposing of materials
generated on ten acres or larger parcels of land that is in “agricultural use”
as defined in M.S. § 17.81, as it may be amended from time to time.
      BURNING BAN. The Commissioner, by written order, may suspend the issuance
of permits for open fires, revoke or suspend the operation of a permit
previously issued and, to the extent he or she deems necessary, prohibit the
burning of all or some kinds of open fires. t
      BURNING RESTRICTION. No permit may be issued in instances where there are
alternatives to burning or burning can be delayed until after the restriction
has been lifted. Variances may be given on a case by case basis. DNR Foresters
will review variance applications and make recommendations to the local Fire
Chief, who will have the final authority during the restriction period.
      COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources.
      CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS. Waste building material, packaging and rubble
resulting from construction, remodeling and repair.
      DEMOLITION DEBRIS. Solid waste resulting from the demolition of
buildings, roads, and other man-made structures, including but not limited to,
materials such as concrete, brick, bituminous concrete, treated wood, masonry,
glass, rock, and plastic building parts. Demolition debris does not include
asbestos wastes.
      DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES (DNR).  The Minnesota Department of
Natural Resources. The DNR is charged with conserving and managing the state's
natural resources.
      DESIGNATED LOCAL AUTHORITY (DLA). A representative of a local unit of
government, fire chief, fire marshal, or fire warden who has been trained and
certified by the DNR. The Carver County Environmental Services Department shall
be the local DLA in local governmental units who do not choose to designate a
DLA.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE. As defined in M.S. § 116.06, as it may be amended from
time to time, means any refuse, sludge, or other waste material or combinations
or refuse, sludge, or other waste materials in solid, semi-solid, liquid, or
contained gaseous form which because of its quantity, concentration, or
chemical, physical, or infectious characteristics may: (a) cause or
significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in serious
irreversible, or incapacitating reversible illness; or (b) pose a substantial
present or potential hazard to human health or the environment when improperly
treated, stored, transported, or disposed of, or otherwise managed. Categories
of hazardous  waste material include, but are not limited to: explosives,
flammables, oxidizers, poisons, irritants and corrosives. HAZARDOUS WASTE does
not include source, special nuclear, or by-product material as defined by the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
      INDUSTRIAL SOLID WASTE. All solid waste generated from an industrial or
manufacturing process and solid waste generated from non-manufacturing
activities such as service and commercial establishments. Industrial solid
waste does not include office materials, restaurant and food preparation waste,
discarded machinery, demolition debris, or household refuse.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT. Means any licensed peace officer.
      MIXED MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE (MMSW). Garbage, refuse, and other solid
waste from residential, commercial, industrial, and community activities that
the generator aggregates for disposal, but does not include auto hulks, street
sweepings, ash, construction debris, mining waste, sludges, tree and
agricultural wastes, tires, lead acid batteries, used oil, and other materials,
collected, processed, and disposed of as separate waste streams.
      OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter if the resultant combustion
products are emitted directly to the atmosphere without passing through a
stack, duct or chimney, except a recreational fire as defined herein.
      RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire set with approved starter fuel, with the
materials to be burned no more than 3 feet in diameter and 3 feet in height,
using dry, clean wood; producing little detectable smoke, odor or soot beyond
the property line; for recreational, ceremonial, food preparation or social
purposes; extinguished completely before quitting the occasion; and respecting
weather conditions, neighbors, burning bans, and air quality so that nuisance,
health or safety hazards will not be created. Mobile cooking devices such as,
charcoal grills, propane, and natural gas devices are not defined as
recreational fires. Recreational fires shall not be located closer than 25 feet
to any structure.
      RUNNING FIRE. An open burn that is not confined to piled materials but is
meant to consume materials over an unconfined area. Running fires include but
are not limited to, open burning conducted to clear or maintain small areas of
land surrounded by tilled agricultural land, open burning to maintain wildlife
habitat in managed wildlife areas, and open burning conducted by a local
government unit to maintain road rights-of-way. Permits for all running fires
must be reviewed and approved by the DNR.
      SNOW COVERED. The ground has a continuous unbroken cover of snow, to a
depth of three inches or more, surrounding the immediate area of the fire.
      STARTER FUELS. Dry, untreated, unpainted kindling, branches, or
cardboard, or charcoal fire starter. Paraffin candles and alcohols are
permitted as starter fuels and as aids to ignition only. Only propane gas
torches or other clean gas burning devices causing minimal pollution may be
used to start an open burn.
      WOOD. Dry, clean fuel only such as twigs, branches, limbs, “presto logs,”
charcoal, cordwood or untreated dimensional lumber. WOOD does not include
pallets, wood that is green, with leaves or needles, rotten, wet, oil soaked,
or treated with paint, glue or preservatives. Clean pallets may be used for
recreational fires when cut into three-foot lengths.
   (B)   Compliance. No person shall cause or permit open burning, except in
full compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Conditions. Violations of any condition, imposed by the Department or
DLA on a permit, shall be deemed a violation of this subchapter.
   (D)   False information. Omission of any information or submission of false
information may be deemed a violation of this subchapter or may be deemed a
violation of state statute.
   (E)   Right of entry. Whenever necessary to perform an inspection, to
enforce any of the provisions of this subchapter, or whenever the DNR,
Department, DLA or Law Enforcement has reasonable cause to believe that
prohibited materials are being burned upon the premises, the DNR, Department,
DLA or Law Enforcement may enter such premises at all reasonable times to
inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon the DNR, Department, DLA
and Law Enforcement by this subchapter, provided that if such premises be
occupied, the authorized agent shall first present proper credentials and
demand entry; and if such premises be unoccupied, the DNR, Department, DLA or
Law Enforcement shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or
other persons having charge or control of the premises and demand entry. If
such entry is refused, the DNR, Department, DLA or Law Enforcement shall have
recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry including
administrative search warrants.
(Ord. 5B, passed 6-26-01; Am. Ord. 73-2012, passed 3-20-12)
§ 53.03 STANDARDS ADOPTED.
   “Open Burning,” as it may be amended from time to time, M.S. §§ 88.01 to
88.22, as they may be amended from time to time, and Minnesota Uniform Fire
Code (where adopted), are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
subchapter as if fully set forth at this point.
(Ord. 5B, passed 6-26-01)
§ 53.04 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Duties of the Department. The Department shall be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this subchapter. The Department’s duties
shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The Department shall maintain records of open burns within Carver
County;
      (2)   The Department shall review and issue open burn permits for local
governments who do not designate a DLA;
      (3)   The Department and its agents shall administer this subchapter,
investigate complaints and violations related to it and enforce the provisions
of this subchapter as provided in rules and statutes;
      (4)   The Department shall assist the DNR in providing training to
certify a DLA;
      (5)   The Department shall recommend certification of the DLA to the DNR
when appropriate;
      (6)   The Department may decommission a DLA for failure to carry out the
duties and responsibilities assigned to them.
   (B)   Duties of local government. The local government duties shall include,
but are not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Local governmental unit may name one or more DLA as provided by
this subchapter. The DLA must be trained and certified by the DNR. The local
governmental unit shall provide the Department with the names and addresses of
these persons. A DLA may not issue open burning permits before such
notification is provided to the county.
      (2)   A local governmental unit may, by ordinance, require open burning
regulations that are more stringent than the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Duties of designated local authority. Referred to hereafter as DLA
shall have the following duties:
      (1)   The DLA shall review applications and issue or deny permits
according to the criteria established in this subchapter and the Minnesota
Rules and Statutes incorporated herein by reference;
      (2)   The DLA shall report to the Department violations of this
subchapter as they become aware of them;
      (3)   The DLA shall submit burn permits to the Department by the seventh
day of the following month;
      (4)   The DLA shall issue burning permits in accordance with instructions
received from the DNR;
      (5)   The DLA shall fill out the burning permit form;
      (6)   The DLA shall report all unauthorized fires through 911 and the
Department;
      (7)   The DLA shall issue written burning permits only. Verbal permission
by itself does not constitute a legal permit;
      (8)   The DLA shall report any problems or difficulties to the
Department;
      (9)   The DLA shall attend training provided by the DNR or the
Department;
      (10)   A DLA who moves outside of their assigned commission area would
not be authorized to continue writing permits. DLA who is no longer interested
in working for the fire prevention program may simply request to be
decommissioned. In addition, an individual may be decommissioned for failure to
properly carry out the duties and responsibilities assigned to them;
      (11)   The DLA shall insure that the permit holder understands all the
regulations associated with conducting an open burn;
      (12)   A DLA shall only issue permits within their assigned commission
area.
(Ord. 5B, passed 6-26-01; Am. Ord. 73-2012, passed 3-20-12)
§ 53.05 PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Responsibility.
      (1)   The permit holder is responsible for compliance and implementation
of all general conditions and special conditions as established in the permit
issued.
      (2)   A person lighting or responsible for the lighting of an
agricultural fire shall also carry out the duties and responsibilities of an
open burn permit holder as per this section and shall be subject to the same
costs and penalties.
      (3)   After completing the burning permit online service application, the
permit holder will be able to save an electronic copy and will be asked to
print the permit. The printed permit must be present while conducting the burn.
   (B)   Safeguard.
      (1)   Open burning shall not be conducted within 100 feet of any
structure.
      (2)   Open burning, excluding recreational fires and running fires, shall
not be conducted within 50 feet of a stream, river, lake, or other water body.
      (3)   An open burn shall not be allowed to smolder with no flame present.
   (C)   Notification. The permit holder cannot conduct the burn until they
have requested activation as instructed on the permit. The permit holder may
activate on-line during the application process, or by calling the DNR burn
activation line. Activation will only be possible if burning conditions are
favorable to allow open burning; the permit holder will receive an activation
code that they must write on their permit in the space provided.
   (D)   Attendance.
         (1)   Every open burn event shall be constantly attended by the permit
holder or his or her competent representative.
         (2)   The open burn fire shall be completely extinguished before the
permit holder or his or her representative leaves the site.
   (E)   Inspections.
      (1)   It is the responsibility of the permit holder to have a valid
permit, on site and, available for inspection by the Department, DLA, DNR, or
Law Enforcement.
      (2)   The permit holder shall allow the Department, DLA, DNR or Law
Enforcement access on site for inspection prior to burning, while conducting
the burn, as well as after the burn as referenced in division (E).
   (F)   Costs and penalties.
      (1)   The permit holder shall be responsible for all costs incurred as a
result of the burn, including, but not limited to, fire suppression, tickets,
citations and permit fees.
      (2)   Any person who violates any provisions of this subchapter, in
addition to any penalties herein prescribed, shall also be liable in full
damages to any and every person suffering loss or injury by reason of the
violation, including liability to the county, cities, townships, and fire
suppression and medical response teams, for all expenses incurred in fighting
or preventing the spread of, or extinguishing any fire caused by, or resulting
from, any violation of this subchapter. When a fire set by any person spreads
to and damages or destroys property belonging to another, the setting of the
fire shall be prima facie evidence of negligence in setting and allowing the
same to spread.
(Ord. 5B, passed 6-26-01; Am. Ord. 73-2012, passed 3-20-12)
§ 53.06 PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person shall conduct, cause or permit the open burning
of any material that was not generated at the site of the open burn.
   (B)   Hazardous and solid waste.
      (1)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit the open burning of
leaves.
      (2)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit the open burning of oils,
petrol fuels, rubber, plastics, plastic pesticide containers, plastic liners in
seed, feed, or pesticide bags, chemically treated materials, or other materials
which produce excessive or noxious smoke such as tires, railroad ties, treated,
painted or glued wood, composite shingles, tar paper, insulation, composition
board, sheetrock, wiring, paint or paint filters, mixed municipal solid waste,
hazardous waste, industrial waste, construction debris or demolition debris.
      (3)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit the open burning of
hazardous waste, salvage operations, solid waste generated from an industrial
or manufacturing process or from a service or commercial establishment, or
building material generated from demolition of commercial or institutional
structures.
   (C)   Food waste. No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of
discarded material resulting from the handling, processing, storage,
preparation, serving or consumption of food.
   (D)   Wetlands, grasslands and farm fields. No person shall conduct, cause,
or permit the open burning of wetlands, grass lands, pastures, crop residue, or
road rights-of-way except as provided in §
53.08.
   (E)   Animal carcasses. No person shall conduct, cause, or permit the open
burning of any dead domestic animal without the approval of the Department.
Such burning shall be permitted only to abate an immediate public health
threat.
   (F)   Structures. No person shall conduct, cause or permit the open burning
of a structure except as provided in §
53.08.
(Ord. 5B, passed 6-26-01; Am. Ord. 73-2012, passed 3-20-12)
§ 53.07 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall start or allow any open burning on
any property in the county without having obtained valid open burning permit.
   (B)   Recreational fires. Recreational fires, as defined in §
53.02, are exempt from this provision year round.
   (C)   Snow cover. A permit is required at all times throughout the year,
even when the ground is snow covered.
(Ord. 5B, passed 6-26-01; Am. Ord. 73-2012, passed 3-20-12)
§ 53.08 PURPOSES ALLOWED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   When all alternative utilization methods for brush has been deemed not
practicable, open burning will be permitted. This decision shall be made by the
DLA, the Department, or the DNR.
   (B)   Open burn permits may be issued only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Fire or health hazard. Elimination of fire or health hazard that
cannot be abated by other practical means. The Commissioner may allow burning
of prohibited materials when the commissioner of health or the local board of
health has made a determination that the burning is necessary to abate a public
health nuisance.
      (2)   Maintenance or construction. Ground thawing for utility repair and
construction.
      (3)   Disposal.
         (a)   Disposal of vegetative matter for managing forest, prairie or
wildlife habitat, and in the development and maintenance of land and rights-of-
way where chipping, composting, landspreading or other alternative methods are
not practical.
         (b)   Disposal of diseased trees, diseased or infected nursery stock,
and diseased bee hives, all generated on site.
         (c)   Disposal of unpainted, untreated, non-glued lumber and wood
shakes where recycling, reuse, removal or other alternative disposal methods
are not practical, and provided that the material was not generated by
demolition of a commercial or institutional structure. A farm building is not a
commercial structure.
         (d)   Disposal of wet hay windrowed in a field or pasture.
         (e)   Disposal of bailing twine and paper feed sacks without plastic
liners.
      (4)   Fire department training.
         (a)   Permits for structures can only be issued by the DNR.
         (b)   The property owner or project contractor shall obtain a
demolition permit from the local unit of government.
         (c)   All required paperwork provided by the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency shall be completed.
         (d)   Fire departments shall ensure that the property owner properly
dispose of all debris following permitted burns. Receipts, showing proper
disposal, shall be retained by the fire department for the period of three
years upon removal of the debris.
(Ord. 5B, passed 6-26-01; Am. Ord. 73-2012, passed 3-20-12)
§ 53.09 PERMIT APPLICATION FOR OPEN BURNING AND PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Application. Open burning permits shall be obtained by making
application through the DNR's burning permit online service or on a form
provided by the DNR.
   (B)   Permit fee.
      (1)   A permit fee is collected at the time of applying for a permit on
the DNR's burning permit online service. The burning permit online service fee
shall be set by the DNR.
      (2)   Application and permit fees for permits reviewed or issued by the
Department shall be set by resolution of the Carver County Board of
Commissioners. The Board of Commissioners may, at other times, amend its
resolution setting the fees as it deems necessary. The fees established by the
Board of Commissioners resolution shall continue to be the required fee until
amended by a resolution.
      (3)   A DLA may require application or permit fees for permits issued in
their jurisdiction. These fees may be set and amended by resolution by the DLA
as it deems necessary.
(Ord. 5B, passed 6-26-01; Am. Ord. 73-2012, passed 3-20-12)
§ 53.10 PERMIT PROCESS FOR OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Review, approval and attached conditions.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a completed open burning permit application, the
Department or DLA shall review and approve or deny the application. The
Department or the DLA may attach conditions to the permit consistent with
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA), DNR, Department, or local
regulations and ordinances. The DLA may also attach reasonable special
conditions to the permit due to site specific conditions which would or which
may have the potential to create safety or pollution concerns or nuisance
conditions.
      (2)   Permits for all running fires and structures must be reviewed and
approved by the DNR. Permits for other permitted materials may be reviewed and
issued by the Department or DLA. A Department or DNR representative may inspect
the proposed burn site and may deny the issuance of the permit based upon
finding that a practical alternative method of disposal exists, or safety,
pollution or nuisance conditions may result.
      (3)   A permit for a running fire may be issued for the purpose of
maintaining wildlife habitat, establishing and/or maintaining a prairie,
maintenance of road rights-of-way, and for maintenance of small areas of land
surrounded by tilled agricultural land.
   (B)   Permit length. Permits obtained through the DNR burning permit online
service or through a DLA are valid for the calendar year in which they are
purchased, but must be activated each day burning occurs.
(Ord. 5B, passed 6-26-01; Am. Ord. 73-2012, passed 3-20-12)
§ 53.11 REVOCATION OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   The open burning permit and the right to conduct an agricultural fire is
subject to revocation at the discretion of DNR, the Department, DLA, or Law
Enforcement. Reasons for revocation include, but are not limited to: discovery
of inappropriate materials at a open burn site, a fire hazard existing or
developing during the course of the burn, any of the conditions of the permit
being violated during the course of the burn, pollution or nuisance conditions
developed during the course of the burn, or a fire smoldering with no flame
present.
(Ord. 5B, passed 6-26-01; Am. Ord. 73-2012, passed 3-20-12)
§ 53.12 DENIAL OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   The Department or a DLA may deny the open burning permit application based
on the following circumstances:
   (A)   If established criteria for the issuance of an open burning permit are
not met during review of said application;
   (B)   It is determined that a practical alternative method of disposal of
the material exists;
   (C)    A pollution or nuisance condition would result;
   (D)   Inappropriate weather conditions; or
   (E)   Any other condition as determined by the Department or DLA.
(Ord. 5B, passed 6-26-01)
§ 53.13 BURNING BAN, BURNING RESTRICTIONS OR AIR QUALITY ALERT.
   No open burn or agricultural fires will be permitted when the Department or
DNR has officially declared burning restrictions. A variance to permit open
burning, however, may be obtained for special circumstances through the DNR.
(Ord. 5B, passed 6-26-01; Am. Ord. 73-2012, passed 3-20-12)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Misdemeanor. Except as where separately provided for in §§
53.01 through
53.13 or state statutes, any person who fails to comply with the provisions of
§§
53.01 through
53.13 is guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
upon each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Civil actions and injunctive relief. In the event of a violation or a
threat of violation of §§
53.01 through
53.13, the county may institute appropriate actions or proceedings, including
injunctive relief to prevent, restrain, correct or abate such violations or
threatened violations. The county may recover costs incurred for corrective
action in a civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction or, at the
discretion of the County Board, the costs may be certified to the County
Auditor as a special tax against the real property.
   (C)   Permit issuance and denial. In the event that a violation of §§
53.01 through
53.13 or any state or local ordinance occurs, the violator must apply for any
future permits through the Department.
(Ord. 5B, passed 6-26-01)
CHAPTER 54: FEEDLOT MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Purpose
   
54.02   Title
   
54.03   Scope and authority
   
54.04   Definitions
   
54.05   Compliance and measurements
   
54.06   Township policies
   
54.07   Properly operated feedlot not a nuisance
Administration and Enforcement
   
54.15   Administration
   
54.16   Violations and enforcement
   
54.17   Joint and severable liability
   
54.18   Variances
   
54.19   Appeals
Permit and Registration Requirements
   
54.30   Feedlot permits
   
54.31   Conditional use permits
   
54.32   Construction short-form and interim permits
   
54.33   Feedlot registration
   
54.34   Service fees
Feedlot and Setback Requirements
   
54.45   Minimum acreage
   
54.46   Setbacks
   
54.47   Locations
   
54.48   Odor mitigation
Manure and Land Application Requirements
   
54.60   Land application of manure
   
54.61   Short-term manure stockpiling sites
   
54.62   Manure spreaders and other vehicles
   
54.63   Commercial manure pumpers and applicators
   
54.64   Additional land
   
54.65   Animal feedlot or manure storage area closure
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to maintain and improve the
county’s agricultural economy and community, and to ensure that animal feedlots
and animal wastes are properly managed to protect public health and natural
resources.
(Ord. 49, passed 7-7-03 ; Am. Ord. 101-2022, passed 7-19-22)
§ 54.02 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited, and referred to as the Carver County
Feedlot Management Ordinance.
(Ord. 49, passed 7-7-03 ; Am. Ord. 101-2022, passed 7-19-22)
§ 54.03 SCOPE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Scope. From and after the effective date of July 23, 1996, when this
chapter was originally adopted, the use of all land and every building or
portion of a building used for a feedlot, or as part of a feedlot shall be in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter. Pre-existing structures, which
are not in conformity with the setback and area provisions of this chapter,
and/or
Chapter 152 of the Carver County Zoning Code, but were in conformity with the
standards prior to changes established by the County Zoning Code and/or this
chapter, shall be allowed as long as pollution hazards are mitigated within the
timelines set forth by the Minn. Rules Chapter 7020, or this chapter.
   (B)   Statutory Authority.  This chapter is adopted pursuant to the
authorization and policies contained in M.S. Chapters 115 and 116, Minn. Rules
Chapter 7020, and the planning and zoning enabling legislation in M.S. Chapter
394.
   (C)   Jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of this chapter shall apply to all the
areas of Carver County outside the incorporated limits of municipalities.
(Ord. 49, passed 7-7-03; Am. Ord. 101-2022, passed 7-19-22)
§ 54.04 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms or words used herein
shall be interpreted as follows:
      (1)   The word “shall” is mandatory, and not discretionary; the word
“may” is permissive; the word “person” shall include individuals, businesses,
and corporations;
      (2)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural the singular;
      (3)   Words shall be given their common usage if not defined;
      (4)   The word “used for” shall include the phrases “arranged for,”
“designed for,” “intended for,” “maintained for,” and “occupied for”;
      (5)   The masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter;
      (6)   The word “Board” includes the “county commissioners,” the “Board of
County Commissioners”, or any other word or words meaning the “Carver County
Board of Commissioners”.
   (B)    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning or
the term is defined in Minn. Rules Chapter 7020.
      ANIMAL FEEDLOT. As defined by Minn. Rules Chapter 7020, a lot or building
or combination of lots and buildings intended for the confined feeding,
breeding, raising or holding of animals and specifically designed as a
confinement area in which manure may accumulate, or where the concentration of
animals is such that a vegetative cover cannot be maintained within the
enclosure. For purposes of these parts, open lots used for the feeding and
rearing of poultry (poultry ranges) shall be considered to be animal feedlots.
Pastures shall not be considered animal feedlots under these parts.
      ANIMAL MANURE. Poultry, livestock, or other animal excreta or a mixture
of excreta with feed, bedding, precipitation or other materials.
      ANIMAL UNIT. A unit of measure used to compare differences in the
production of animal manure which has a standard, the amount of manure produced
on a regular basis by a slaughter steer or heifer. A multiplication factor set
by the MPCA in Minn. Rules Chapter 7020, will be hereinafter adopted by
reference without change except as may be amended by state.
      BLUFF. As defined by
Chapter 152 of the Carver County Zoning Code.
      BLUFF IMPACT ZONE. As defined by
Chapter 152 of the Carver County Zoning Code.
      BUFFER. A vegetative feature as defined by M.S. § 103F.48.
      BUILDING, AGRICULTURAL. All buildings, other than dwellings, which are
incidental to a farming operation.
      CEMETERY. As defined by
Chapter 152 of the Carver County Zoning Code.
      CHURCH. As defined by
Chapter 152 of the Carver County Zoning Code.
      COMMERCIAL APPLICATOR. As defined by M.S. § 18C.430, commercial animal
waste technician.
      CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT (CUP). As defined by Chapter 152 of the Carver
County Zoning Code.
      CONSTRUCTION SHORT-FORM PERMIT. A permit issued for an animal feedlot or
manure storage area pursuant to Minn. Rules Chapters 7020.0505 and 7020.0535.
      COUNTY. Carver County, Minnesota.
      COUNTY FEEDLOT OFFICER. A county employee, appointed by the County Board,
to administer the provisions of this chapter and Minn. Rules Chapter 7020.
      DOMESTIC FERTILIZER. Domestic fertilizer means:
         (a)   Animal manure that is applied on or injected into the soil to
improve the quality and/or quantity of plant growth; or
         (b)   Animal manure that is used as compost, soil conditioners or
specialized plant beds.
      DRAINAGE DITCH. A man-made trench that is dug for the purpose of draining
water from the land or for transporting water for use on the land and that is
not built for navigational purposes.
      EXISTING ANIMAL FEEDLOT. An animal feedlot that has registered with
Carver County or the MPCA prior to July 7, 2003 and has been utilized for
livestock production within the past five years.
      EXPANSION. Construction or any activity that may result in an increase in
the number of animal units that an animal feedlot is capable of holding or an
increase in storage capacity of a manure storage area.
      FARM. As defined by §
152.010 of the Carver County Zoning Code.
      FEEDLOT OPERATOR. An individual, a corporation, a group of individuals, a
partnership, joint venture, owner or any other business entity having charge or
control of one or more livestock feedlots, poultry lots or other animal lots.
      FEEDLOT PERMIT. A document issued by the MPCA or county that contains
requirements, conditions, and compliance schedules relating to the discharge of
animal manure pollutants, management of animal manure, or construction /
operation of animal holding areas or manure storage areas. These permits
include NPDES, SDS, construction short-form, and interim.
      FEEDLOT REGISTRATION. Required information for animal feedlots and manure
storage areas pursuant to Minn. Rules Chapter 7020.0350.
      FEEDLOT RUNOFF. The movement of water, in any form, from, or through, a
feedlot, carrying particles of manure or process wastewater into a body of
water, ditch, right of way or to a channelized flow environment.
      FLOODPLAIN. As defined by
Chapter 152 of the Carver County Zoning Code.
      INCORPORATION (ANIMAL MANURE). The mixing of manure with the topsoil by
means such as disking, plowing, rototilling, injection or other mechanical
means concurrent with the application or within 24 hours, providing the mixing
occurs before a rain event.
      INTERIM PERMIT. A permit issued by the MPCA or County Feedlot Officer to
correct a pollution hazard.
      LIQUID MANURE STORAGE AREA. An area where liquid animal manure and
process wastewaters are stored or processed.
      LIVESTOCK. Domestic farm animals including, but not limited to cattle,
hogs, horses, bees, sheep, goats, chickens, and other animals commonly kept for
commercial food production purposes.
      MANURE MANAGEMENT PLAN. A plan that manages the amount (rate), source,
placement (method of application) and timing of commercial fertilizers, manure,
soil amendments and organic by-products to agricultural landscapes as a source
of plant nutrients while protecting local air, soil and water quality.
      MANURE STORAGE AREA. An area where animal manure or process wastewaters
are stored or processed. Short-term and permanent manure stockpile sites and
composting sites are manure storage areas. Animal manure packs or mounding
within the animal holding area of an animal feedlot that are managed according
to Minn. Rules Chapter 7020.2000, are not manure storage areas.
      MDA. The Minnesota Department of Agriculture. As established in M.S.
Chapter 17.
      MINNESOTA RULES (MINN. RULES) CHAPTER 7020. This rule governs the
storage, transportation, disposal, and utilization of animal manure and process
wastewaters and the application for and issuance of permits for construction
and operation of animal manure management and disposal or utilization systems
for the protection of the environment. This chapter does not address wastes
from fish.
      MODIFICATION. A change to a facility component or operational practice
described, required, or authorized by a permit issued under this chapter,
including an expansion of an existing animal feedlot.
      MPCA. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency. As established in M.S.
Chapter 116.
      NEW ANIMAL FEEDLOT. An animal feedlot constructed and operated at a site
where no animal feedlot existed previously or where a pre-existing animal
feedlot has been abandoned or unused for a period of five years or more.
      NON-AGRICULTURAL COMMERCIAL USE. The principal use of land or buildings
for the sale, lease, rental or trade of products, goods and services. The
principal or accessory use of land or buildings for the sale, lease, rental or
trade of products, goods, and services that is not associated with an
agricultural activity.
      NPDES PERMIT. National Pollution Discharge Elimination System Permit. A
permit issued by the MPCA for the purpose of regulating the discharge of
pollutants from point sources including concentrated animal feeding operations
(CAFOs).
      NRCS. The Natural Resources Conservation Service of the USDA, a federal
agency.
      NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to health, or indecent or offensive
to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
      OFFSET. Odor From Feedlots Setback Estimation Tool developed by the
Department of Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering of the University of
Minnesota.
      ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL. As defined by
Chapter 152 of the Carver County Zoning Code.
      PARCEL. As defined by
Chapter 152 of the Carver County Zoning Code.
      PASTURE. Areas where grass or other vegetation is used for grazing, and
the concentration of animals does not allow a vegetative cover to be maintained
during the growing season, except in the immediate vicinity of temporary
supplemental feeding or watering devices.
      PERSON. As defined by
Chapter 152 of the Carver County Zoning Code.
      POLLUTION HAZARD. As defined by Minn. Rules Chapter 7020, including but
not limited to an animal feedlot or manure storage area where construction or
operation will allow a discharge of pollutants to surface water or ground water
in excess of applicable standards, including Minn. Rules 7050 and 7055, during
a rainstorm event less than a 25-year, 24-hour magnitude or will violate any
state or county rules or ordinances.
      PROCESS WASTEWATERS. Waters and/or precipitation, including rain or snow,
which comes into contact with manure, litter, bedding, or other raw material,
final material, or product used in or resulting from the production of animals,
poultry, or direct products, such as milk or eggs.
      REGIONAL PARK. As defined in the County 2020 Comprehensive Plan as Baylor
Regional Park, Lake Minnewashta Regional Park, Carver Park Reserve, Lake
Waconia County Park, and Lake Bavaria Boat Launch.
      RESTAURANT.  As defined by M.S. § 157.15(12).
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land acquired by reservation, dedication,
prescription or condemnation and intended to be occupied or used by a road,
street, trail, water line, sewer line, electrical transmission line or similar
public and/or utility service. Unless otherwise specified, the term RIGHT-OF-
WAY (R-O-W) as used in this chapter refers to road or street right-of-way,
However, if no records exist, the right-of-way shall be assumed to be 33 feet,
measured from the centerline of the road, as built.
      SCHOOL. As defined by
Chapter 152 of the Carver County Zoning Code. For the purpose of this chapter,
home schools shall not apply.
      SDS PERMIT. State Disposal System Permit. A state permit issued that is
processed in accordance with Chapter 7001.
      SENSITIVE AREAS. Areas determined by the State of Minnesota and Carver
County that require minimum setbacks for manure application to minimize
pollution potentials.
      SETBACK. As defined by
Chapter 152 of the Carver County Zoning Code.
      SHORELAND. As defined by
Chapter 152 of the Carver County Zoning Code.
      SPECIAL PROTECTION AREA. Land within 300 feet of all:
         (a)   Protected waters and wetlands identified through the Department
of Natural Resources protected waters and wetlands maps; and
         (b)   Intermittent streams and ditches identified on United States
Geological Survey quadrangle maps, excluding drainage ditches with berms and
segments of intermittent streams that are grassed waterways.
      SWCD. The Carver County Soil and Water Conservation District.
      USDA. The United States Department of Agriculture.
      VARIANCE. As defined by
Chapter 152 of the Carver County Zoning Code.
      WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems, and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or
underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained
within, flow through, or border upon the state or any portions of the state.
      WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA. The surface and subsurface area surrounding a
well or well field that supplies a public water system, through which
contaminants are likely to move toward and reach the well or well field.
      WETLAND. As defined by M.S. § 103G.005(17b).
(Ord. 49, passed 7-7-03; Am. Ord. 101-2022, passed 7-19-22)
§ 54.05 COMPLIANCE AND MEASUREMENTS.
   (A)    The use of any land for the establishment, expansion, or management
of an animal feedlot shall comply with the provisions of this chapter, the
County Zoning Code, the provisions of Minn. Rules Chapter 7020, the provisions
of Minn. Rules Chapter 7050, and the provisions of Minn. Rules Chapter 4725.
   (B)   All stated and measured distance shall be taken to the nearest
integral foot. If a fraction is one-half foot or less, the integral foot next
below shall be taken.
(Ord. 49, passed 7-7-03; Am. Ord. 101-2022, passed 7-19-22)
§ 54.06 TOWNSHIP POLICIES.
    Township Comprehensive Plan Chapters may address policies regarding maximum
animal unit density/numbers and thresholds that would trigger a Conditional Use
Permit (CUP). This chapter will administer township feedlot policies provided
Township Comprehensive Plan Chapters are adopted in accordance with the
county’s Comprehensive Land Use Plan.
(Ord. 49, passed 7-7-03; Am. Ord. 101-2022, passed 7-19-22)
§ 54.07 PROPERLY OPERATED FEEDLOT NOT A NUISANCE.
   (A)   Agriculture often includes such activities as the intense use of farm
equipment and machinery; plowing during dry and windy conditions; the raising
of livestock and fowl; the use of soil amendments, including manure,
herbicides, and pesticides; and storage of manure. These activities may occur
during any 24-hour period. Thus, owners or renters of property located in
agricultural areas may be subject to discomforts such as odors, dust, insects,
and noise. While these activities may be considered nuisances in a more urban
setting, they are common in an agricultural community and vital to the
sustenance of an agricultural economy.
   (B)   Pursuant to M.S. § 561.19, agricultural activities shall not be
considered a public nuisance, provided such activities do not violate any state
statute, rule, or other law.
   (C)   This section shall not prevent any party or person from proceeding to
bring civil action against an agricultural operator/owner. However, it is
strongly encouraged that complaints between agricultural operations and local
property owners/renters seek a resolution through the County Dispute Resolution
Program or other form of mediation or dispute resolution before pursuing
litigation.
(Ord. 49, passed 7-7-03; Am. Ord. 101-2022, passed 7-19-22)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 54.15 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)    The County Environmental Services Department shall administer this
chapter. The County Board shall appoint a County Feedlot Officer to discharge
the authorities of this Department under the Feedlot Management chapter.
   (B)   The County Feedlot Officer shall have the authority to:
      (1)   Administer and enforce this chapter;
      (2)   Supervise the keeping of all necessary records for feedlots,
including but not limited to:
         (a)   Permit applications;
         (b)   Inspection reports;
         (c)   Correspondence;
         (d)   Site plans;
         (e)   Engineering and construction reports for manure storage
facilities, and/or other required engineering plans;
         (f)   Registrations;
         (g)   Complaint investigation reports;
         (h)   Odor exemption logs;
         (i)   Manure management plans.
      (3)   Consult with SWCD, NRCS, MPCA, and private consultants as necessary
to ensure construction standards are followed on manure handling and runoff
control structures, or other management practices for the purpose of pollution
control;
      (4)   Provide and maintain public information and educational materials
relative to this chapter and feedlot management;
      (5)   Oversee the inspection of feedlot operations to ensure compliance
with the standards of this chapter;
      (6)   Review permits and feedlot sites every four years, or more, to
determine continuing compliance with this chapter;
      (7)   Consult with other county departments, state and federal agencies,
and private consultants as needed.
   (C)   The County Feedlot Officer(s) shall have the authority to review
applications and process as follows:
      (1)   Copies of application materials for state and/or federal
administered feedlots shall be submitted to the County Feedlot Officer.
Originals should be sent to the MPCA. However, feedlot owners and/or operators
that need assistance with state and/or federal applications can request support
from the County Feedlot Officer.
       (2)   No building permits, or other similar permit, for the purpose of
the confined feeding, breeding, raising, or holding of animals or the handling
or storage of manure shall be issued until approval is made by the County
Feedlot Officer(s).
   (D)   Feedlots that are administered by the MPCA shall not be exempt from
this chapter, or
Chapter 152 of the Carver County Zoning Code.
      (1)   Animal feedlots of 1,000 animal units or more shall be administered
by the MPCA.
      (2)   Animal feedlots of less than 1,000 animal units with a NPDES or SDS
permit shall be administered by the MPCA.
(Ord. 49, passed 7-7-03; Am. Ord. 101-2022, passed 7-19-22)
§ 54.16 VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violations. Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of
the provisions hereof or who shall fail to comply with any of the provisions
hereof or who shall make any false statement in any document required to be
submitted under the provisions hereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each
day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Enforcement. 
      (1)   Access to premises. Upon the request of the County Feedlot Officer,
the applicant, permittee or any other person shall allow access at any
reasonable time to the affected premises for the purposes of regulating and
enforcing this chapter.  
      (2)   Interference prohibited.  No person shall hinder or otherwise
interfere with the County Feedlot Officer in the performance of duties and
responsibilities required pursuant to this chapter.
      (3)   Stop work orders. Whenever any work is being done contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, the County Environmental Services Department, or
the Land Management Department may order the work stopped by written notice
personally served upon the owner or operator of the feedlot. All activities
shall cease and desist until subsequent authorization to proceed is received
from the Environmental Services Department or the Land Management Department.
      (4)   Revocation. Any person who fails to comply with the conditions set
forth in the feedlot permit may be subject to revocation upon written notice
personally served upon the owner or operator of the feedlot.
      (5)   Injunctive relief and other remedies.  In the event of a violation
or a threat of a violation of this chapter, the county may institute
appropriate actions or proceedings, including injunctive relief, to prevent,
restrain, correct or abate such violations or threat of violations. The county
may recover costs incurred for corrective action in a civil action in any court
of competent jurisdiction, and such costs may be certified by court order to
the County Auditor as a special tax against the real property. These and other
remedies, as determined appropriate by the county, may be imposed upon the
applicant, permittee, installer, or other responsible person either in addition
to or separate from other enforcement actions.
(Ord. 49, passed 7-7-03; Am. Ord. 101-2022, passed 7-19-22)
§ 54.17 JOINT AND SEVERABLE LIABILITY.
   (A)   Owners and operators of feedlots shall have joint and severable
liability for clean-up, closure, and remediation of abandoned feedlot sites.
   (B)   The owner, and/or operator, of any animal feedlot shall be responsible
for the storage, transportation, and disposal of all animal manure and
associated wastewater generated by the animal feedlot.
(Ord. 49, passed 7-7-03 ; Am. Ord. 101-2022, passed 7-19-22)
§ 54.18 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Any person seeking a variance to this chapter shall complete a
Variance Application Form and submit it to the County Environmental Services
Department.
   (B)    All variances shall be processed per
Chapter 152 of the Carver County Zoning Code.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment may impose conditions it considers necessary
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare. Such conditions may include
odor mitigation or other agricultural management practices.
   (D)   Any use that is also prohibited by the Zoning Code will require a
variance to the Zoning Code and can be addressed in the same application to the
Land Management Department.
(Ord. 49, passed 7-7-03; Am. Ord. 101-2022, passed 7-19-22)
§ 54.19 APPEALS.
   (A)   Filing. The appeal shall be filed with the Environmental Services
Department within 30 days of the action that is being appealed and shall
include specifically the order, requirement, decision, or determination which
is being appealed, the requested remedy, and shall state the reasons for
appeal. The Department shall prepare a report and refer the appeal to the
County Board of Adjustment for a decision. The appeal shall be heard at a
public hearing by the Board of Adjustment. The Board shall give due notice
thereof to the appellant and the officer from whom the appeal is taken and to
the public.
   (B)   Stay of action. The filing of an appeal stays all proceeding and
furtherance of the action appealed from unless the Board of Adjustment to whom
the appeal is taken certifies that by reason of the facts stated in the
certificate the stay would cause imminent peril to life or property.
   (C)   Decision. The Board of Adjustment may reverse or affirm wholly or
partly or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed
from and to that end shall have all of the powers of the officer from whom the
appeal was taken and may direct issuance of the permit. The Board's decision
shall be by the adoption of an order. The order shall include the findings of
fact supporting the Board's decision. The Board shall not act on an appeal in
such a fashion as to violate the comprehensive plan or violate any state or
federal law or rule. The Board shall act in such time as required to comply
with state law.
(Ord. 49, passed 7-7-03; Am. Ord. 101-2022, passed 7-19-22)
PERMIT AND REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS
§ 54.30 FEEDLOT PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required. Any person owning or operating an existing feedlot,
or proposing a new feedlot, shall make application to the Environmental
Services Department, and obtain a permit:
      (1)   When required under Minn. Rules Chapter 7020;
      (2)   When a change in the construction or operation of an animal feedlot
would significantly or adversely affect the storage, handling, utilization, or
disposal of animal manure;
      (3)   When a new feedlot, of 50 animal units or more outside of
shoreland, is proposed;
      (4)   (a)   The County Board may, by resolution, require all un-permitted
feedlots within environmentally sensitive areas to apply for, obtain, and
operate according to the requirements of a permit. These areas may include, but
are not limited to:
            1.   Shoreland areas;
             2.   Specific watersheds or sub-watersheds;
            3.   Areas determined by the County Board to be sensitive to ground
or surface water pollution;
         (b)   The resolution adopting these requirements must state the reason
or reasons for declaring the area an environmentally sensitive area and shall
include legally sufficient findings of fact. A public meeting, for the purpose
of receiving comment on the proposed resolution, shall take place prior to the
adoption of the resolution. All known feedlots and local governments within the
area shall receive written notice of the intention of the County Board to take
such action at least 14 days prior to the public comment meeting.
      (5)   A feedlot, of any size, which is located within the Shoreland
Zoning District, may be reviewed by the Carver County Feedlot Officer to
determine if a pollution hazard exists. The Feedlot Officer may place
conditions upon the operations of such feedlots to limit their impact on
surface water quality.
   (B)   Permit application. Applications will be the MPCA permit application
for animal feedlots and/or manure storage areas.
(Ord. 49, passed 7-7-03; Am. Ord. 101-2022, passed 7-19-22)
§ 54.31 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Feedlots meeting one or more of the following criteria must apply for
and receive a Conditional Use Permit (CUP), pursuant to
Chapter 152 of the Carver County Zoning Code, when issuance of a permit is
required by §
54.30(B) of this chapter:
      (1)   Feedlots, of ten animal units or more, located in the Shoreland
Zoning District;
      (2)   The establishment of a new feedlot of 50 or more animal units on a
parcel of less than 40 acres;
      (3)   Feedlots of 600 animal units or more;
      (4)   Feedlots identified by specific policies of a Township
Comprehensive Plan Chapter, pursuant to §
54.06 of this chapter.
   (B)   Continuation of the public hearing may be necessary in order to gather
further information prior to making recommendation to the County Board.
   (C)   Conditions shall be required for approval. Conditions should address,
but may not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintaining an appropriate crust or cover on an earthen basin;
      (2)   Providing a notice to neighbors before manure hauling/application;
      (3)   Using an injection method or a spread and incorporate method for
manure application;
      (4)   Managing odors through use of covers, curtains or biofilters;
      (5)   Utilizing new technology, approved by the County Feedlot Officer;
      (6)   Utilizing OFFSET for odor prediction.
(Ord. 49, passed 7-7-03; Am. Ord. 62-2007, passed 12-11-07; Am. Ord. 101-2022,
passed 7-19-22)
§ 54.32 CONSTRUCTION SHORT-FORM AND INTERIM PERMITS.
   (A)   A construction short-form permit will be issued for construction or
expansion of the feedlot or manure storage areas unless a NPDES, SDS, or
interim permit is required.
   (B)   An interim permit may be issued if there is demonstrated non-
compliance with this chapter or Minn. Rules Chapter 7020, the animal feedlot
has less than 1,000 animal units, manure is used as a domestic fertilizer, and
the potential pollution hazard will be mitigated within 24 months or less, and
a SDS or NPDES permit is not required.
   (C)   Term of construction short-form and interim permits. All construction
short-form permits and interim permits expire within 24 months of the date of
issuance.
   (D)   If the work for which a construction short-form permit was issued is
not complete upon expiration of the permit, the expiration date may be extended
by no more than 24 months.
   (E)   If the pollution hazard for which an interim permit was issued is not
corrected upon expiration of the permit, the expiration date may be extended by
no more than 90 days if:
      (1)   The facility is currently eligible for the same permit;
      (2)   The owner notifies the County Feedlot Officer at least 90 days
prior to the expiration of the permit.
   (F)   Applicability. This section applies to owners who apply for
construction short-form and interim permits.
   (G)   Construction short-form permit content. A construction short-form
permit issued by the County Feedlot Officer must state: “The permittee shall
comply with Minnesota Rules, parts 7020.2000 to 7020.2225, and all applicable
requirements”. The permit shall also identify at least the following
information:
      (1)   The permit number;
      (2)   The names and addresses of the owners and the signature of at least
one of the owners;
      (3)   The legal name and business address of the facility, if different
than the owner;
      (4)   The location of the facility by county, township, section and
quarter section;
      (5)   A list of all animal types and the maximum number of animals of
each animal type that can be confined within each lot, building, or area at the
animal feedlot;
      (6)   A list of all existing and proposed manure storage areas including
plans and specifications as required in Minn. Rules Chapter 7020 for proposed
liquid manure storage areas and permanent stockpile sites;
      (7)   The total number of animal units the facilities will be capable of
holding after completing construction or expansion of an existing feedlot;
      (8)   The soil type or texture and depth to saturated soils at the
facility as identified in the USDA Soil Survey Manual or a site-specific soils
investigation;
      (9)   An aerial photograph showing the location of all wells, buildings,
surface tile intakes, lakes, rivers, and watercourses within 1,000 feet of the
proposed facility;
      (10)   The number of acres available for land application of manure;
      (11)   A manure management plan if the facility is capable of holding 100
or more animal units.
   (H)   Interim use permit content. An interim permit issued by the County
Feedlot Officer must also include the requirements listed under division (B)
and the following:
      (1)   The corrective and protective measures required to bring the
facility into compliance with Minn. Rules 7020.2000 to 7020.2225, as amended;
      (2)   The schedule under which the corrective and protective measures
must be completed;
      (3)   Additional requirements related to the specific site or operation
as determined necessary to ensure compliance with applicable rules and
requirements.
(Ord. 101-2022, passed 7-19-22)
§ 54.33 FEEDLOT REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All feedlots of ten animal units or more shall register with Carver
County Environmental Services.
   (B)   Registration data. Carver County Environmental Services shall maintain
registration data for animal feedlots and manure storage areas. The
registration data must include:
      (1)   Date the registration form was completed;
      (2)   Name and address of all owners of the animal feedlot or manure
storage area;
      (3)   Facility location according to township, county, section and
quarter section;
      (4)   Permit or certificate number for owners who have been issued a
county feedlot permit or certificate of compliance;
      (5)   Types of animal holding areas including pastures, confinement barns
and open lots;
      (6)   Number and types of animals;
      (7)   Identity of surface waters within 1,000 feet of the facility;
      (8)   Presence and type of manure storage areas;
      (9)   Shortest distance from an animal holding area or manure storage
area to a well;
      (10)   The name of the person that completed the registration form.
   (C)   Notification. The County Feedlot Officer shall notify owners at least
90 days prior to the scheduled registration update deadline and send a receipt
of registration to owners within 30 days of receipt of the registration.
   (D)   Animal unit calculations.
Animal Unit Calculations
Animal Type Animal Unit (AU) Factor Animal Type Animal Unit (AU) Factor
Animal Unit Calculations
Animal Type        Animal Unit (AU) Animal Type         Animal Unit (AU) Factor
                   Factor
Dairy cow > 1,000
lbs, (milked or    1.4              Sheep or lamb       0.1
dry)
Dairy cow < 1,000
lbs, (milked or    1.0              Goat                0.15
dry)
Dairy - heifer     0.7              Chickens - liquid   0.033
                                    manure
Dairy - calf       0.2              Chickens - broilers 0.005
                                    > 5 lbs.
Beef- cow and calf 1.2              Chickens - broilers 0.003
pair                                < 5 lbs.
Beef slaughter/    1.0              Chickens - layers > 0.005
stock/bull                          5 lbs.
Beef- feeder/      0.7              Chickens - layers < 0.003
heifer                              5 lbs.
Beef- calf         0.2              Turkeys > 5 lbs.    0.018
Swine > 300 lbs.   0.4              Turkeys > 5 lbs.    0.005
Swine 55-300 lbs.  0.3              Ducks - dry manure  0.01
Swine < 55 lbs.    0.05             Ducks - liquid      0.01
                                    manure
Horse              1.0              Other animals       Average weight ÷ 1,000
                                                        lbs.
(Ord. 101-2022, passed 7-19-22)
§ 54.34 SERVICE FEES.
   Service fees are annually set by the County Board for various permits and
other such services.
(Ord. 49, passed 7-7-03; Am. Ord. 101-2022, passed 7-19-22)
FEEDLOT AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS
§ 54.45 MINIMUM ACREAGE.
    A minimum area of five acres or such greater area required to meet all
setbacks set forth by
Chapter 152 of the Carver County Zoning Code and this chapter shall be required
for feedlot operations.
(Ord. 49, passed 7-7-03; Am. Ord. 101-2022, passed 7-19-22)
§ 54.46 SETBACKS.
   (A)   Livestock buildings, all types of manure storage areas, and manure
stockpiles shall be constructed, operated, and maintained to minimize, within
economical reason and industry standards, the aesthetic, health, odor, and
pollution concerns.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, when measuring from a road, the edge
of the right-of-way line shall be considered the property line.
   (C)    New feedlots.
      (1)   A setback of 200 feet shall apply to all new feedlots of ten animal
units or more from rear, front, and side property lines.
      (2)   A setback of 1,000 feet shall apply to all feedlots of 30 animal
units or more from residences, churches, schools, regional parks, cemeteries,
non-agricultural commercial activities, and restaurants.
         (a)   A setback of 1,000 feet shall also apply to all new residences,
churches, schools, regional parks, cemeteries, non-agricultural commercial
activities, and restaurants from animal feedlots of 30 animal units or more.
         (b)   Owners and/or operators of a proposed feedlot, that also own the
residences, churches, schools, regional parks, cemeteries, non-agricultural
commercial activities, and restaurants, on the site, shall be exempt from the
setback requirements set forth in this section. This exemption shall be
reciprocal.
   (D)   Existing feedlots as of July 7, 2003.
      (1)   The modifications and/or expansions of existing animal feedlots,
that are located within 200 feet of existing property lines, may be allowed if
they do not further encroach on the established setback.
      (2)   The modification or expansion of existing animal feedlots that are
located within 1,000 feet of residences, churches, schools, regional parks,
cemeteries, non-agricultural commercial activities, and restaurants may be
allowed if the modification and/or expansion does not further encroach on the
established setback.
         (a)   This setback shall be reciprocal.
         (b)   Odor mitigation techniques as authorized in §
54.48 of this chapter may be required for feedlots seeking to expand or modify
pursuant to this section.
   (E)   Feedlots established after July 7, 2003.  Animal feedlots, consisting
of fewer than 30 animal units, that are located within 1,000 feet of
residences, churches, schools, regional parks, cemeteries, non-agricultural
commercial and industrial activities, and restaurants shall not be allowed to
expand to greater than 30 animal units.
   (F)   Residential lots and building sites that were approved by plat, minor
subdivision, CUP, variance, or other similar action -- prior to May 1, 2000 -
- shall be exempt from the 1000-foot setback requirement. The dwelling shall be
located as far from the feedlot as reasonably practical, determined by the
Department of Environmental Services in coordination with the Land Management
Department.
   (G)   Manure stockpiles.
      (1)   No manure stockpile shall be permitted within 300 feet of
residences, churches, schools, regional parks, cemeteries, non-agricultural
commercial activities, and restaurants.
      (2)   No manure stockpile shall be permitted within 300 feet of flow
distance and at least 50 feet horizontal distance, to waters of the state, rock
outcroppings, open tile intakes and any uncultivated wetlands.
      (3)   No manure stockpile shall be permitted within 300 feet of flow
distance to any road ditch that flows to the features identified in division
(G)(2) or 50 feet of any road ditch where division (G)(1) does not apply.
      (4)   No manure stockpile shall be permitted within 100 feet of any
private water supply or any unused and unsealed well and 200 feet from any
private well that contains less than 50 feet of watertight casing and is not
cased through a confining layer of at least ten feet thick.
   (H)   Wetlands.
      (1)   No new feedlot shall be permitted within 300 feet of an unprotected
wetland Type 3-8 of one acre or more, as defined by the Circular 39 Wetland
Classification System.
      (2)   Modifications or expansions to existing feedlots that are located
within 300 feet of an unprotected wetland Type 3-8, of one acre or more, as
defined by the Circular 39 Wetland Classification System, are allowed as long
as the expansion does not further encroach any closer to the wetland or pose a
pollution hazard.
      (3)   No new feedlots shall be permitted within 500 feet of any wetland
designated as a special protection area.
      (4)   Modifications or expansions to existing feedlots that are located
within 500 feet of any wetland designated as a special protection area are
allowed as long as the expansion does not further encroach any closer to the
wetland or pose a pollution hazard.
   (I)   Lakes.
      (1)   No new feedlot shall be permitted within 1,000 feet of the ordinary
high water level of a lake.
      (2)   Modifications or expansions to existing feedlots that are located
within 1,000 feet of a lake are allowed as long as the expansion does not
further encroach any closer to the ordinary high water level of a lake.
   (J)   Rivers.
      (1)   No new feedlot shall be permitted within 300 feet of the ordinary
high water level of a river.
      (2)   Modifications or expansions to existing feedlots that are located
within 300 feet of a river are allowed as long as the expansion does not
further encroach any closer to the ordinary high water level of a river.
   (K)   Streams and intermittent streams.
      (1)   No new feedlot shall be permitted within 300 feet of the ordinary
high water level of a stream or intermittent stream.
      (2)   Modifications or expansions to existing feedlots that are located
within 300 feet of a stream or intermittent stream are allowed as long as the
expansion does not further encroach any closer to the ordinary high water level
of a stream or intermittent stream.
(Ord. 49, passed 7-7-03; Am. Ord. 101-2022, passed 7-19-22)
§ 54.47 LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Well head protection areas. Feedlot and manure management practices
may be further regulated within a Well Head Protection Zone established by
local units of government.
   (B)   Bluff impact zone. Modifications or expansions of existing animal
feedlots that are located within a bluff impact zone are allowed if they do not
further encroach on the bluff impact zone, all zoning regulations are complied
with, and all identified pollution hazards are corrected.
   (C)   Transition areas. No new feedlot shall be constructed within any of
the Transition Areas identified by the County Comprehensive Land Use Plan
without approval of the city.
   (D)   Abandoned Wells. All abandoned wells shall be properly sealed pursuant
to Minn. Rules Chapter 4725.
   (E)   Shoreland.
      (1)   New feedlots shall not be located within a Shoreland District.
Existing animal feedlots or manure storage areas expanding in the Shoreland
District shall not locate any portion of the expanded animal feedlot or the
manure storage area closer to the ordinary high water level than any existing
portion of the animal feedlot or the manure storage area.
      (2)   Existing feedlots in a Shoreland District shall not be expanded
above 999 animal units.
   (F)   Floodplain. No new feedlot shall be constructed within a floodplain.
Existing animal feedlots or manure storage areas in a Floodplain District shall
not be expanded.
(Ord. 49, passed 7-7-03; Am. Ord. 101-2022, passed 7-19-22)
§ 54.48 ODOR MITIGATION.
   (A)    The use of odor modeling to analyze feedlot odors and make
recommendations for odor management may be necessary for an expansion or
modification of an existing animal feedlot pursuant to §
54.46(D)(2), a CUP, or variance request. For the purpose of this section,
measuring for an odor rating shall be achieved by using OFFSET -- or another
feedlot odor measuring tool recommended by the University of Minnesota and
approved by the County Feedlot Officer.  
   (B)   New liquid manure storage facilities, for swine feedlots over 300
animal units, shall not be constructed unless the facility will be covered,
with an approved cover, for the purpose of odor mitigation. The cover shall be
in place and maintained from May 1 through November 1.
   (C)   New barns, including modifications of barns, with shallow or deep
pits, must be constructed using approved biofiltration air systems, or approved
equivalent (i.e., University of Minnesota approved systems).
   (D)   Feedlots requiring a liquid manure storage facility, for the purpose
of pollution abatement, may be exempt from this section, if so determined by
action of the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 49, passed 7-7-03; Am. Ord. 101-2022, passed 7-19-22)
MANURE AND LAND APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS
§ 54.60 LAND APPLICATION OF MANURE.
   (A)    All application of manure shall follow Minn. Rules Chapter 7020.2225,
as amended, in addition to the requirements set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Manure and process wastewater must not be applied to land in a manner
that will:
      (1)   Result in a discharge to waters of the state during the application
process.
      (2)   Cause pollution of waters of the state due to manure-contaminated
runoff.
   (C)   Buffer requirements.
      (1)   Streams, wetlands, and drainage ditches.
         (a)   Protected. If applying manure, or process wastewater, within 300
feet of the ordinary high water of a protected stream, wetland, or drainage
ditch, a 25-foot vegetated buffer shall be maintained along the stream,
wetland, or drainage ditch, and manure must be injected or incorporated within
24 hours.
         (b)   Unprotected. If applying manure, or process wastewater, within
50 feet of the ordinary high water of an unprotected stream, wetland, or
drainage ditch, one rod (16.5 feet) of vegetated buffer shall be maintained
along the stream, wetland, or drainage ditch.
      (2)   Lakes. If applying manure, or process wastewater, within 300 feet
of the ordinary high water of any lake, a 25-foot vegetated buffer shall be
maintained along the lake, and manure must be injected or incorporated within
24 hours.
   (D)   Right-of-Way. Manure shall not be applied to the right-of-way of
public roads.
   (E)   Wells.
      (1)   If no pollution hazard exists, a minimum distance of 100 feet shall
be maintained between manure, or process wastewater, and any private water
supply well.
      (2)   If no pollution hazard exists, a minimum distance of 300 feet shall
be maintained between manure, or process wastewater, and any public water
supply well.
   (F)   Residences. Animal manure, and process wastewater, shall not be
applied within 100 feet of a residence unless it is injected or immediately
incorporated into the soil. However, permission by the resident may be granted
to spread closer. When determining the distance between a residence and manure
application, the distance shall be measured from the residence, not property
lines, to manure application.
   (G)   Treatment or disposal. Any manure not utilized as domestic fertilizer
shall be treated or disposed of in accordance with applicable state rules.
   (H)   Irrigation of liquid manure. Irrigation of liquid manure is strictly
prohibited in the county.
   (I)   Land application of manure setbacks.
Land Application of Manure Setbacks
Physical features/ Surface spread or winter Injected/incorporated within
structures         application              24 hours
Land Application of Manure Setbacks
Physical features/          Surface spread or winter Injected/incorporated
structures                  application              within 24 hours
Lakes*                      300 feet                 25 feet
Rivers or streams*          300 feet                 25 feet
Wetlands*                   300 feet                 25 feet
Drainage ditches*           300 feet                 25 feet
Open tile intakes           300 feet                 0 feet
Mines and quarries          50 feet                  50 feet
Floodplain                  Prohibited               Prohibited
Public roads (right-of-way) 0 feet                   0 feet
Wells** (public)            300 feet                 300 feet
Wells** (private)           100 feet                 100 feet
Residences*** (other
than landowner or           100 feet                 - - -
operator)
*Non-winter setbacks may be reduced from 300' to either 100' (lakes and
perennialstreams) or 50' (wetlands, drainage ditches, and intermittent
streams) if permanent vegetative buffers of at least 100' or 50' wide are
planted along the waters.
** Sensitive water-supply wells must be setback twice the indicated distance.
***Distance may be reduced with resident's permission.
(Ord. 49, passed 7-7-03; Am. Ord. 101-2022, passed 7-19-22)
§ 54.61 SHORT-TERM MANURE STOCKPILING SITES.
   (A)   Manure stockpiling sites shall comply with Minn. Rules Chapter
7020.2125, as amended.
   (B)   Manure stockpiling sites shall be located and constructed where manure
contaminated runoff from the site does not discharge to waters of the state.
   (C)   An owner of a short-term manure stockpile site must operate and
maintain the stockpile such that:
      (1)   The manure is removed from the site and land applied in accordance
with Minn. Rules 7020.2225, as amended, within one year of the date when the
stockpile was initially established.
      (2)   A vegetative cover is established on the site for at least one full
growing season prior to reuse as a short-term stockpiling site except for the
following:
         (a)   Sites located within the confines of a hoofed-animal open lot at
a facility having the capacity to hold fewer than 100 animal units.
         (b)   Sites where manure is stockpiled for fewer than ten consecutive
days and no more than six times per calendar year.
   (D)   Manure stockpiling sites shall not be placed on land with greater than
6% slope.
(Ord. 101-2022, passed 7-19-22)
§ 54.62 MANURE SPREADERS AND OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   All vehicles used to transport animal manure, or process wastewater,
on public roads shall be leak proof. Manure spreaders with end gates shall be
in compliance with this provision provided the end gate works effectively to
restrict leakage and the manure spreader is leak proof.
   (B)   All animal manure shall be stored and transported in conformance with
Minn. Rules 7020 and this chapter.
(Ord. 49, passed 7-7-03; Am. Ord. 101-2022, passed 7-19-22)
§ 54.63 COMMERCIAL MANURE PUMPERS AND APPLICATORS.
   (A)   All commercial manure pumpers and applicators must be registered with
the MDA and follow Minn. Rules Chapter 7020.2225, as amended, in order to
conduct business within the county.
   (B)   Registration must be in conformance with county and state regulations.
   (C)   The following conditions shall apply to manure application:
      (1)   Liquid manure must be injected or incorporated within 24 hours of
application;
      (2)   Pumpers and applicators shall comply with the conditions of this
chapter and the feedlot owner’s permit.
(Ord. 49, passed 7-7-03; Am. Ord. 101-2022, passed 7-19-22)
§ 54.64 ADDITIONAL LAND.
    The feedlot owner and/or operator shall own, or have sufficient additional
land under contract to meet the manure utilization requirement for spreading of
manure produced at their feedlot. The county may retain copies of all written
agreements between the feedlot operators and lessors, or any person who permits
land manure application. Each parcel of land subject to agreement shall be
limited to one agreement per parcel.
(Ord. 49, passed 7-7-03; Am. Ord. 101-2022, passed 7-19-22)
§ 54.65 ANIMAL FEEDLOT OR MANURE STORAGE AREA CLOSURE.
   (A)   Within one year of ceasing operation, manure and manure contaminated
soils from animal holding areas and manure storage areas to be land applied in
accordance with Minn. Rules 7020.2225, as amended.
   (B)   After the requirements of division (A) have been completed, reduce
soil nitrogen by growing alfalfa, grasses, or other perennial forage for at
least five years.
   (C)   Within 60 days after final closure, submit a certified letter to the
County Feedlot Officer stating that the animal feedlot or the manure storage
area has been closed according to the requirements in this part. The letter
must identify the location of the animal feedlot or the manure storage area by
county, township, section and quarter section.
(Ord. 101-2022, passed 7-19-22)
CHAPTER 55: PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCES
Section
   
55.01   Purpose and authority
   
55.02   Jurisdiction
   
55.03   Definitions
   
55.04   Prohibition
   
55.05   Administration
   
55.06   Response to public health nuisance that is not a clandestine lab site
   
55.07   Clandestine drug lab site; law enforcement notice to affected public,
public health, and child protection authorities
   
55.08   Notice of chemical investigation site public health nuisance to owner
and occupant
   
55.09   Chemical investigation site; notice filed with property record and/or
motor vehicle record
   
55.10   Chemical investigation site; property owner’s and occupant’s
responsibility to act
   
55.11   Property owner’s responsibility for costs and opportunity for recovery
   
55.12   Special assessment to recover public costs
   
55.13   Modifications and appeals
   
55.14   Enforcement
   
55.15   Fees
§ 55.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards and authority to
protect the public health, safety and general welfare of the people of Carver
County pursuant to powers granted under M.S. Chapters 145A, 375. and 152, and
other applicable state law, as they may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   This chapter establishes minimum standards for the health, safety and
protection of parties who may be exposed to public health nuisances by:
      (1)   Establishing responsibility for involved parties to assure that
people are not unnecessarily exposed to the dangers of public health nuisances:
      (2)   Preventing injury and illness to occupants of the property and the
public, especially children and vulnerable adults.
      (3)   Requiring that proper steps are taken to remove public health
nuisances: and
      (4)   Requiring that appropriate tests be done to demonstrate that
affected structures and media (air, water, soil) are sufficiently cleaned for
human contact if/when appropriate.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall be interpreted and applied as the
minimum requirements necessary to protect public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 53-2004, passed 8-2-04; Am. Ord. 76-2013, passed 6-18-2013)
§ 55.02 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This chapter applies throughout all of Carver County, but does not
preempt ordinances related to clandestine drug labs adopted by a statutory or
home rule charter city or a town.
   (B)   This chapter applies throughout all of Carver County. but does not
preempt ordinances related to housing or public nuisance adopted by a statutory
or home rule charter city or a town.
   (C)   This chapter shall be applicable in all incorporated and
unincorporated municipalities (city or township) within the boundaries of
Carver County under the jurisdiction of the County Board of Health,
(Ord. 53-2004, passed 8-2-04; Am. Ord. 76-2013, passed 6-18-2013)
§ 55.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms or words shall be
interpreted as follows:
   ABATEMENT. Means the proper removal and/or containment of substances or
materials hazardous to humans and/or the environment. ABATEMENT is part of
remediation.
   BOARD OF HEALTH.  Means the Carver County Board of Commissioners and its
designated employees, agents or contractors. Additionally, it shall have the
meaning given to it by M.S. § 145A.02, subd. 2.
   CHEMICAL INVESTIGATION SITE.  Means a drug lab site (such as a clandestine
drug lab) that is under notice and order for cleanup and/or remediation as a
public health nuisance, as authorized by M.S. Chapter 145A and this chapter.
   CHILD.  Means any person less than 18 years of age.
   CLEANUP.  Means the proper removal and/or containment of substances or
materials hazardous to humans and/or the environment. CLEANUP is part of
remediation.
   CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB. Means any structure or conveyance or outdoor location
occupied or affected by the conditions or chemicals typically associated with
the manufacturing of methamphetamine or other unlawful manufacture of a
controlled substance.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.  Means a CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE or an immediate
precursor as defined in M.S. § 152.01, subd. 4, as amended in the future. The
term shall not include distilled spirits, wine, malt beverages, intoxicating
liquors, or tobacco.
   COUNTY PROTECTION UNIT.  Means the department and/or section of a department
assigned the responsibilities for child protection and/or adult protection.
   MEDICAL CONSULTANT.  Means a physician licensed to practice medicine in
Minnesota who is working under a written agreement with, employed by, or under
contract with the Board of Health.
   OCCUPANT. Means a natural or legal person who occupies real property,
whether with or without any right, title or interest in the property, or who is
in possession or charge of such property, in the event the owner resides or is
located elsewhere.
   OWNER. Means any person, firm, partnership or corporation who owns, in whole
or in part, real property, a structure and/or fixtures, or is the purchaser of
the property under a contract for deed or personal property such as a motor
vehicle, trailer, boat or other appliance.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Means all property other than real estate or structures.
   PROFESSIONAL REMEDIATION FIRM.  Means a firm that has provided written
assurance to the Board of Health that it has appropriate equipment, procedures
and personnel to accomplish remediation, and that it is an experienced HAZMAT
contractor.
   PROPERTY. Means publicly or privately owned real property, including
buildings and other structures, motor vehicles as defined in M.S. § 609.487,
subd. 2a, public waters and public rights-of-way.
   PROPERTY AGENT. Means legal or natural person authorized by an owner to act
in transacting business matters or in managing real estate.
   PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE. Shall have the meaning given to it by M.S. §
145A.02, subd. 17, and shall include, but not be limited to, any condition that
poses an immediate and direct hazard to human health if left unremedied due to
the existence of the condition itself, or due to the immediate threat of
transmission of disease through insects, animals or other means for the
transmission of infection. A clandestine drug lab is a PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE.
   RECORDER.  Means the Carver County Property Records and Taxpayer Services
Division.
   REMEDIATION. Means methods employed in dealing with public health nuisances
and include, but are not limited to, assessment, evaluation, testing, venting,
detergent scrubbing, enclosure, encapsulation, demolition, and/or removal of
materials.
   STRUCTURE. Means a dwelling, building, motor vehicle, trailer, boat, or any
other area or location, either fixed or temporary.
   VULNERABLE ADULT. Shall have the meaning given to it by M.S. § 626.5572,
subd. 21.
(Ord. 53-2004, passed 8-2-04; Am. Ord. 76-2013, passed 6-18-2013)
§ 55.04 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   The creation or maintenance of a public health nuisance is prohibited.
   (B)   The following are hereby expressly declared to be public health
nuisances, without limitation by reason of such enumeration:
      (1)   Failure to keep waste, refuse or garbage in an enclosed building or
properly contained in a closed, insect- and rodent-proof container designed or
reasonably adapted for such purpose, except for the immediate time preceding
pick-up by a licensed solid waste hauler;
      (2)   Accumulation of carcasses of animals, birds or fish by failing to
bury or otherwise dispose of a carcass in a sanitary manner within 24 hours
after death. This provision shall not apply if the animals, birds or fish are
intended for human consumption;
      (3)   Accumulation of decayed animal or vegetable matter, animal or human
feces, trash, rubbish, garbage, rotting lumber, packing material, scrap metal,
tires or any other substances in which flies, mosquitoes, other disease-
carrying insects, rodents or other vermin can harbor: this definition does not
include compost bins or compost sites that are being managed in accordance with
acceptable standards:
      (4)   Any structure or property that has become dangerous for further
occupancy because of sanitary defects, which may include, but are not limited
to: accumulation of human or animal feces, evidence of garbage and rotting
food, infestation by rodents or insects, environmental conditions that affect
children and vulnerable adults, and lack of approved potable water supply or
sewage disposal;
      (5)   Infestations of flies, fleas, cockroaches, lice, ticks, rats, mice,
fly larvae and hookworm larvae;
      (6)   Unnatural breeding grounds that support mosquito larvae and
mosquitoes carrying West Nile Virus, LaCrosse encephalitis, or any other
disease-causing microorganisms;
      (7)   Accumulations of animal feces or solid waste remaining in any place
so as to become injurious and dangerous to the health and safety of any
individual or to the public in general;
      (8)   Causing or allowing improper sewage disposal facilities to be
operated, or causing or allowing the effluent from any cesspool, septic tank,
drain field or sewage disposal system to discharge upon the surface of the
ground or into any body of water;
      (9)   Maintaining a hole or opening caused by an improperly abandoned
cistern, septic system, unused or non-maintained private swimming pool,
foundation, mine shaft or tunnel, including an improperly abandoned, sealed,
barricaded or backfilled excavation;
      (10)   A clandestine drug lab and/or clandestine drug lab site.
(Ord. 76-2013, passed 6-18-2013)
§ 55.05 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   This chapter shall be administered by the County Department of Public
Health, hereinafter referred to as the “Board of Health”.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to determine whether or
not a public health nuisance exists.
   (C)   In accordance with M.S. § 145A.04, subd. 7, the Board of Health has
right of entry for inspection of property where a public health nuisance is
reasonably suspected or known.
      (1)   The owner, occupant or property agent shall, upon the request of
the Board of Health and after proper identification, permit access to all parts
of the site or structure as often as necessary, and at any reasonable time for
the purposes of inspection, remediation and abatement, and shall exhibit and
allow copying of any and all records necessary to ascertain compliance with
this chapter.
      (2)   No person shall in any way interfere with or hinder the Board of
Health in the performance
of its duties, or refuse the Board of Health access to gather information
necessary to ascertain compliance with this chapter.
   (D)   Except where otherwise specified, this chapter is subject to all
provisions of Chapters
10,
50,
51,
52 and
54 of this code, and any other applicable county ordinances, as they may be
amended from time to time.
   (E)   Waste generated through cleanup or remediation of a site that is
considered a public health nuisance shall be treated, stored, transported and
disposed in accordance with applicable Minnesota Department of Health,
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, and county guidelines, rules and
regulations for remediation of a clandestine drug lab, for solid waste, and for
hazardous household/other hazardous wastes.
(Ord. 76-2013, passed 6-18-2013)
§ 55.06 RESPONSE TO PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE THAT IS NOT A CLANDESTINE LAB SITE.
   (A)   If the Board of Health determines that a public health nuisance
exists, it shall promptly issue a notice and order requiring the owner,
occupant or property agent to abate the public health nuisance as provided in
M.S. § 145A.04, subd. 8 and this chapter.
   (B)   The owner and occupant may be ordered to abate such public health
nuisance within ten calendar days of receipt of the notice, unless another time
is required due to the Board of Health's further determination that the
immediate abatement is necessary to preserve the public health and safety. In
such case, the time for abatement shall be specified in the order, and the
reasons for a shortened abatement period shall be specified.
   (C)   The Board of Health may leave a posted warning sign at the public
health nuisance site. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove this sign.
   (D)   (1)   The notice and order for abatement must be served on the owner,
occupant or property agent, if applicable, in one of the following ways:
         (a)   By registered or certified mail; or
         (b)   By an officer authorized to serve a warrant; or
         (c)   By a person aged 18 years or older who is not reasonably
believed to be a party to any action arising from the notice.
      (2)   If the owner of the property is unknown or absent and has no known
representative upon whom notice can be served, the Board of Health shall post a
written or printed notice on the property or structure, stating that, unless
the threat to the public health is abated or removed within a period of ten
days, the Board of Health will have the threat abated or removed at the expense
of the owner under M.S. § 145A.08, this chapter, or other applicable state or
local law.
   (E)   The Board of Health shall notify and order the owner and occupant to
have the public health nuisance removed or abated as provided in M.S. § 145A.04
and this chapter. The Board of Health shall include the following as part of
the notice and order:
      (1)   Property location by street address, property identification
number, or other property description.
      (2)   Information identifying the nature of the public health nuisance at
the property.
      (3)   A summary of the owner's and occupant's responsibilities under this
chapter.
      (4)   Specific orders for abatement or remediation of the public health
nuisance.
      (5)   A date for completion of the abatement, not to exceed ten days
following the receipt of the notice, unless a shorter time is required due to
the Board of Health's further determination that the immediate abatement is
necessary to protect public health and safety. In such cases, the reason for a
shortened abatement period shall be specified.
      (6)   Information regarding a right of appeal, as provided in §
55.13, and that, unless the threat to public health is abated or removed in
accordance with the terms of the notice, the Board of Health will have the
public health nuisance abated or removed at the expense of the owner under the
provisions of M.S. § 145A.08, this chapter, or other applicable state or local
law.
   (F)   Pursuant to M.S. § 145A.04, subd. 8, if the owner, occupant or
property agent fails or neglects to comply with the requirements of the notice
and order provided under division (A) of this section, then the Board of Health
may abate the public health nuisance. The Board of Health may recover the costs
of abatement as provided in §
55.12.
   (G)   Following the service of a notice of abatement, the Board of Health
may send written notice describing the condition of the property and the action
required to the following parties:
      (1)   Child Protection Division in situations of potential child
maltreatment or endangerment;
      (2)   Adult Protection Division in situations of potential vulnerable
adult maltreatment or endangerment;
      (3)   Neighbors in close proximity likely to be affected by the
conditions found at the site;
      (4)   The local city or township;
      (5)   Local law enforcement;
      (6)   Other state and local authorities that may have public or
environmental protection responsibilities; and/or
      (7)   Lien and/or mortgage holders.
   (H)   If after the expiration of the time provided in the notice and order,
the Board of Health is unable to obtain reasonable assurance from the owner,
occupant or property agent that the public health nuisance is being abated or
remediated, the Board of Health may provide a copy of the public health
nuisance notice and order to the County Recorder, who shall file that
information with the property record.
   (I)   Where it is determined that a child neglect, child endangerment or
vulnerable adult situation may exist as a result of the public health nuisance,
the Board of Health shall notify the County Protection Unit for response to the
potential child neglect, child endangerment or vulnerable adult situation.
   (J)   The notice provided by the Board of Health, as referenced in division
(I) of this section, shall include sufficient information to inform the County
Protection Unit of the following:
      (1)   Property location by street address and other identifiable
location;
      (2)   Owner's and occupant's identities, including the identities of any
children or vulnerable adults found at, or known to be associated with the
site;
      (3)   Conditions found that make this home or residence a public health
nuisance; and
      (4)   Any other conditions that may be associated with the site that
could present harmful conditions as determined by state law.
   (K)   The Board of Health may modify conditions of the notice and order,
including timelines.
(Ord. 76-2013, passed 6-18-2013)
§ 55.07 CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITE; LAW ENFORCEMENT NOTICE TO AFFECTED PUBLIC,
PUBLIC HEALTH, AND CHILD PROTECTION AUTHORITIES.
   (A)   Law enforcement authorities, who identify and confirm a clandestine
drug lab site or clandestine drug lab operation, shall notify the Board of
Health and the county department responsible for child protection within one
working day of identifying and confirming the lab site, as permitted by M.S. §
13.82. The obligation to promptly notify may be delayed to accomplish
appropriate law enforcement objectives, but any decision to delay notification
must be in compliance with state law, including but not limited to, M.S. §
626.556. The notice shall include sufficient information to inform the
recipients of the following:
      (1)   Property or structure location by street address and other
identifiable location;
      (2)   Property or structure owner’s and occupant’s identities—especially
the identities of any children and women of child-bearing age found or known to
be associated with the site;
      (3)   Chemicals found, indications of chemical residues, and any related
odors and vapors;
      (4)   Equipment in a dwelling or structure that is typically associated
with the manufacture of a controlled substance; and
      (5)   Conditions typically associated with a clandestine drug lab site or
operation, including but not limited to, weapons, illicit drugs, filth, fire,
or electrical shock and other harmful conditions as determined by state law.
   (B)   Upon identification of the clandestine drug lab site or operation, law
enforcement agencies may treat, store, transport or dispose of all hazardous
waste found at the site in a manner consistent with rules and regulations
adopted by the Minnesota Department of Health, the Minnesota Pollution Control,
the county and all other state, federal and local agencies with jurisdiction
over the site or operation.
   (C)   When a law enforcement agency completes its work under division (B)
and is prepared to leave such sites, the agency shall affix a warning sign to a
conspicuous part of the site. The warning sign shall be prepared in advance for
such situations by the Board of Health. The warning sign shall be of a size and
contain information sufficient to alert visitors or returning occupants that
the site is a chemical investigation site public health nuisance, may be
dangerous to enter, and must not be entered except by authorization of the
Board of Health and/or law enforcement agency identified on the sign.
   (D)   Any person, other than a representative of the Board of Health, who
willfully removes the warning sign specified in division (C), is guilty of a
misdemeanor pursuant to M.S. § 145A.04, subd. 10.
(Ord. 53-2004, passed 8-2-04; Am. Ord. 76-2013, passed 6-18-2013)
§ 55.08 NOTICE OF CHEMICAL INVESTIGATION SITE PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE TO OWNER
AND OCCUPANT.
   (A)   After the Board of Health receives notice from a law enforcement
agency that the agency has identified a clandestine drug lab site and posted
the appropriate chemical investigation site public health nuisance warning
sign, the Board of Health shall serve the known lawful occupants and owners of
the site, pursuant to M.S. § 145A.04, subd. 8(b), with notice of their
responsibilities relative to the chemical investigation site public health
nuisance.
   (B)   The notice and order must be served on the owner, occupant or property
agent, if applicable, in one of the following ways:
      (1)   By registered or certified mail; or
      (2)   By an officer authorized to serve a warrant; or
      (3)   By a person aged 18 years or older who is not reasonably believed
to be a party to any action arising from the notice.
   (C)   If the owner of the property or structure is unknown or absent and has
no known representative upon whom notice can be served, the Board of Health
shall post a written or printed notice on the property or structure, stating
that, unless the threat to the public health is abated or removed within a
period of ten days, the Board of Health will have the threat abated or removed
at the expense of the owner under M.S.§ 145A.08, this chapter, or other
applicable state or local law.
   (D)   The Board of Health shall notify and order the property owner of
record and known occupant or agent to have the public health nuisance removed
or abated within ten days, as provided in M.S. § 145A.04 and this chapter. The
public health notice and order shall include the following:
      (1)   A replica of the chemical investigation site public health nuisance
declaration that is posted at the site’s entrance(s).
      (2)   Information about the potentially hazardous condition of the
chemical investigation site.
      (3)   A summary of the property owner’s and occupant’s responsibilities
under this chapter.
      (4)   Information on locating professional services necessary to remove
and abate the chemical investigation site public health nuisance status as
provided in this chapter and M.S. § 145A.04.
   (E)   Subject to any restrictions imposed by M.S. Chapter 13, the Board of
Health shall endeavor to provide information in writing about the chemical
investigation site public health nuisance declaration and potential hazard(s)
to the following additional concerned parties:
      (1)   Neighbors within close proximity that can be reasonably affected by
the conditions found;
      (2)   The local city or township;
      (3)   Local law enforcement;
      (4)   Other state and local authorities, such as the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency and Minnesota Department of Health, that may have public health
or environmental protection responsibilities at the site;
      (5)   County Administrator; and
      (6)   Lien and/or mortgage holders.
(Ord. 53-2004, passed 8-2-04; Am. Ord. 76-2013, passed 6-18-2013)
§ 55.09 CHEMICAL INVESTIGATION SITE; NOTICE FILED WITH PROPERTY RECORD AND/OR
MOTOR VEHICLE RECORD.
   (A)   When 30 days have passed since the owner received the order of
abatement specified in §
55.09(B), and the Board of Health has not obtained any reasonable assurance or
plan from the property owner, occupant or property agent that the structure is
being properly vacated, cleaned, remediated and tested, the Board of Health
shall provide a copy of the chemical investigation site public health nuisance
notice and order to the County Recorder, and to the lien and mortgage holders
of the affected structure and/or properties. The County Recorder is authorized
to file that information with the property record to notify other persons with
interest in the property about the property’s chemical investigation site
public health nuisance status.
   (B)   When the affected property is a motor vehicle, boat or trailer, the
Board of Health shall notify the appropriate state and local agencies that
maintain motor vehicle, boat or trailer records, and the holders of liens or
security interests against the vehicle, boat or trailer.
(Ord. 53-2004, passed 8-2-04; Am. Ord. 76-2013, passed 6-18-2013)
§ 55.10 CHEMICAL INVESTIGATION SITE; PROPERTY OWNER’S AND OCCUPANT’S
RESPONSIBILITY TO ACT.
   (A)   Property owner(s) and occupant(s) provided with a notice, which also
includes the posted warning sign informing them about the chemical
investigation site public health nuisance, shall promptly act to vacate
occupants from those parts of a structure that are a chemical investigation
site public health nuisance. This includes dwellings, buildings, motor
vehicles, trailers, boats, appliances or any other affected area or location.
   (B)   Within ten business days of receiving the public health notice and
order to cleanup the chemical investigation site public health nuisance, the
property owner(s) and/or occupant(s) shall take the following actions:
      (1)   Notify Board of Health that the affected parts of the dwellings,
buildings, and/or motor vehicles have been and will remain vacated and secured
until the Board of Health provides notice that the chemical investigation site
public health nuisance no longer exists.
      (2)   Contract with one or more acceptable environmental hazard testing
and cleaning firms (acceptable firms are those that have provided assurance of
appropriate equipment, procedures and personnel, as determined by the Board of
Health) to accomplish the following:
         (a)   A detailed on-site assessment of the extent of contamination at
the site and the contamination of the personal property therein;
         (b)   Soil testing of the site and testing of all property and soil in
proximity to the site that the environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm
determines may have been affected by the conditions found at the site;
         (c)   A complete cleanup of the site (including but not limited to,
the cleanup or removal of contaminated plumbing, ventilation systems, fixtures
and soil), or a demolition of the site and a complete cleanup of the demolished
site;
         (d)   A complete cleanup, or disposal at an approved dumpsite, of all
personal property in the site;
         (e)   A complete cleanup of all property and soil in proximity to the
site that is found to have been affected by the conditions found at the site,
and
         (f)   Remediation testing and follow-up testing to determine that all
health risks are sufficiently reduced, according to Minnesota Department of
Health guidelines, to allow safe human occupancy and use of the site, and use
of the personal property therein.
      (3)   Provide the Board of Health with the identity of the testing and
cleaning firm the owner, occupant or property agent has contracted with for
remediation of the structure(s) as described above.
      (4)   Provide the Board of Health with the contractor’s plan and schedule
for remediation that will abate the chemical investigation site public health
nuisance declaration.
      (5)   The property owner, occupant or property agent may request an
extension of time to consider options for arranging cleanup or removal of the
affected parts of the structure. The owner, occupant or property agent must
show good cause for any such extension. Any such extension shall be dependant
on the owner’s assurance that the affected parts of the structure will not be
occupied pending appropriate cleanup or demolition.
   (C)   The Board of Health and County Recorder is authorized to administer
requirements imposed by M.S. § 152.0275, subd. 2. The Board of Health shall
maintain a list available to the public, of properties to which notices and
orders have been issued pursuant to §
55.08(B). Prior to signing a lease or rental agreement, the owner, occupant or
property agent must disclose, in writing, to the renter if, to the knowledge of
the owner, occupant or property agent, methamphetamine production has occurred
on the property.
(Ord. 53-2004, passed 8-2-04; Am. Ord. 76-2013, passed 6-18-2013)
§ 55.11 PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS AND OPPORTUNITY FOR RECOVERY.
   (A)   Consistent with M.S. Chapter 145A, the property owner shall be
responsible for:
      (1)   Private contractor’s fees, cleanup, remediation and testing of
public health nuisance conditions; and
      (2)   County fees and costs of administering notices and enforcing,
vacating, cleanup, remediation and testing of affected parts of the property.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to limit the property owner’s,
agent’s, occupant’s or the county’s right to recover costs or damages from
persons contributing to the public health nuisance, such as the operators of
the clandestine drug lab and/or other lawful sources.
   (C)   The county’s administrative and enforcement services, referenced in
division (A), include but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Posting warning notices or signs at the site;
      (2)   Notification of affected parties;
      (3)   Securing the site, providing limited access to the site, and
prosecution of unauthorized persons found at the site;
      (4)   Expenses related to the recovery of costs, including the assessment
process;
      (5)   Laboratory fees;
      (6)   Cleanup services;
      (7)   Administrative fees; and
      (8)   Other associated costs.
(Ord. 53-2004, passed 8-2-04; Am. Ord. 76-2013, passed 6-18-2013)
§ 55.12 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT TO RECOVER PUBLIC COSTS.
   (A)   The county is authorized under M.S. § 145A.04, subd. 8(c) to proceed,
within ten business days of service of a notice for abatement or removal of the
public health nuisance, to initiate the assessment and cleanup when:
      (1)   The property owner is not located; or
      (2)   The Board of Health determines that the owner refuses to, or cannot
pay the costs, or arrange timely assessment and cleanup that is acceptable to
the Board of Health.
   (B)   The Board of Health shall be fully authorized to act, consistent with
state law, on behalf of the county to direct funds to assure prompt remediation
of public health nuisance conditions.
   (C)   When the estimated cost of testing, cleanup and remediation exceeds
75% of the County Assessor’s market value of the structure and land, the Board
of Health is authorized to notify the property owner of the county’s intent to
remove and dispose of the affected real property, instead of proceeding with
cleaning and remediation. For motor vehicles, the county will use the most
recent version of Kelley Blue Book value or equivalent to determine market
value.
   (D)   The property owner shall be responsible for all costs, including those
of the county incurred to abate the public health nuisance, including
contractor’s fees and public costs for services that were performed in
association with a public health nuisance site cleanup. The county’s costs may
also include, but shall not be limited to, those set forth in §
55.11(C). Fees and costs specified above that are not paid for in any other way
may be collected through a special assessment on the property as allowed by
M.S. § 145A.08, or by any other applicable federal, state and county laws,
ordinances and/or applicable County Board resolution.
   (E)   The cost of testing, cleanup and remediation shall be certified by the
Board of Health. Notice of cost and demand for payment shall be forwarded to
the property owner, by certified mail, to the property owner’s last known
address as shown on property tax records. If payment in full is not made within
30 days of mailing of notice, the Board of Health may request that all costs be
assessed against the property.
   (F)   Payment on the special assessment shall be collected at the time real
estate taxes are due.
   (G)   The county may also seek recovery of costs through other methods
allowed by federal or state law.
(Ord. 53-2004, passed 8-2-04; Am. Ord. 76-2013, passed 6-18-2013)
§ 55.13 MODIFICATIONS AND APPEALS.
   (A)   The Board of Health may modify conditions of the declaration and order
removal of the declaration of a public health nuisance.
   (B)   Such modification or removal shall be only after the Board of Health
has determined the level of public health nuisance is sufficiently reduced
through remediation to warrant modification or removal of the declaration. The
Board of Health may rely on information from competent sources, including those
supplied by the owner, occupant, property agent and/or others, such as state
and local health, safety and pollution control authorities, to reach such
decisions.
   (C)   When the declaration is modified, rescinded or removed, the Board of
Health shall forward that information to the County Recorder for addition to
the property record if the Recorder has been notified as described in §§
55.06(H) and
55.09(A).
   (D)   When a public health nuisance is declared, an owner and/or an occupant
of the affected property may appeal the declaration, including an order for
abatement or remediation from the Board of Health, by filing a written request
with the Board of Health for an administrative hearing within ten calendar days
of the date of service, exclusive of the day of service. In the event of an
unknown or absent property owner, the appeal must be requested within ten
calendar days from the day of posting of the notice under §
55.06(D).
   (E)   If any owner, occupant or property agent makes a written request to
the Board of Health for an administrative hearing, such hearing shall be held
before an administrative law judge.
   (F)   The hearing shall be held no later than 20 calendar days after the
request for a hearing was received by the Board of Health. For good cause
shown, the hearing officer may continue the date of the hearing for up to
another 20 calendar days.
   (G)   The Board of Health shall mail a notice of the time and place of the
hearing at least seven calendar days prior to the hearing.
   (H)   All parties shall have full opportunity to respond to and present
evidence and witnesses.
   (I)   The appellant shall have the burden of proving its position by clear
and convincing evidence.
   (J)   Hearings shall be informal. The parties shall have the opportunity to
present testimony and question any witnesses, but strict rules of evidence
shall not apply. The independent hearing officer shall make an audio recording
of the hearing and receive testimony and exhibits, and the full record of the
hearing shall be maintained. The independent hearing officer shall receive and
give weight to evidence, including hearsay evidence, which possesses probative
value commonly accepted by reasonable and prudent people in the conduct of
their serious affairs. Irrelevant, immaterial and repetitious evidence shall be
excluded. In the case of an administrative law judge, the hearing will be
conducted in accordance with the hearing procedures of the Office of
Administrative Hearings. Failure to attend the hearing as scheduled shall be
deemed an admission of the facts set forth in the notice and order for
abatement.
   (K)   The decision of the administrative law judge shall be issued within
ten calendar days following the administrative hearing. Unless otherwise
provided by law, the decision of the administrative law judge shall constitute
the final decision of the Board of Health.
   (L)   Further appellate rights. Any party aggrieved by a final decision is
entitled to judicial review of the decision. A petition for a writ of
certiorari by the party must be filed with the Court of Appeals not more than
30 calendar days after the party receives the final decision from the
administrative law judge.
   (M)   Cost share for appeal. Fees and expenses for the administrative law
judge as part of the administrative hearing shall be borne equally by the Board
of Health and the owner, occupant or property agent. In the event that the
hearing results in a decision in the appellant's favor, the Board of Health
will be responsible for the full expense.
(Ord. 53-2004, passed 8-2-04; Am. Ord. 76-2013, passed 6-18-2013)
§ 55.14 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided by law. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day that a violation
occurs or continues.
   (B)   In the event of a violation or a threat of violation of this chapter,
the County Attorney may take appropriate action to enforce this chapter,
including application for iniunctive relief, action to compel performance, or
any other appropriate action in court to prevent, restrain, correct or abate
such violation or threatened violation.
(Ord. 76-2013, passed 6-18-2013)
§ 55.15 FEES.
   Fees for the Board of Health complaint investigation, verification,
administration and enforcement of violations of this chapter shall be those
established by resolution, as amended from time to time, by the County Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. 76-2013, passed 6-18-2013)
CHAPTER 56: SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM AND WATER WELL LOAN PROGRAM
Section
   
56.01   Purpose
   
56.02   Authority
   
56.03   Definitions
   
56.04   Administration
   
56.05   Application and certification procedures
   
56.06   Eligibility
   
56.07   Loan financing terms
   
56.08   Appeals
   
56.09   Separability
   
56.10   Effective date and dissolution
§ 56.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted to provide for the creation of a public loan program
that assists private property owners in the financing of site evaluation,
installation, repair, or replacement of subsurface sewage treatment systems and
in the financing of the sealing and replacement of wells on private property.
Such a loan program promotes the public health and welfare by preventing,
reducing, and eliminating water pollution from subsurface sewage treatment
systems or providing clean and safe drinking water supplies that meet the
priority criteria established in the Administrative Plan.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 89-2018, passed 12-18-18)
§ 56.02 AUTHORITY.
   Carver County may establish a subsurface sewer treatment system and well
loan program pursuant to the authority granted under M.S. Chapter 103I, M.S.
Chapter 115, and Minn. Rules Chapters 7080 through 7083, and as amended that
may pertain to sewage and wastewater treatment and enforcement standards for
subsurface sewage treatment systems and wells, and provide other financing in
accordance with M.S. § 17.117.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 89-2018, passed 12-18-18)
§ 56.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BORROWER. Individual or multiple landowners applying for a low-interest
loan.
   IMPROVEMENT. A site evaluation, design, installation, repair, or replacement
of a subsurface sewage treatment system or well or sealing of an abandoned
well, appropriate modifications and connections to existing facilities and
components to make the improvement functional, and restoration of the site or
structure consistent with the existing conditions before the project was
commenced.
   LOCAL LENDER. A state or federally chartered bank, a savings and loan
association, a state or federal credit union, a non-profit economic development
organization approved by the Commissioner, a farm credit systems institution,
any participating lender under contract with the Agricultural Best Management
Practices Loan Program, or the applicant when designating itself as the LOCAL
LENDER.
   PROJECT. All required components, approved by the County CDA or other
designated department or agency, to make the improvement fully functional.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The owner or owners as recorded on the tax roll of the
county where the real property on which the SSTS or well that is installed,
repaired or replaced is located.
   SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM or SSTS. A sewage treatment system or
parts thereof, using soil treatment and disposal to treat 5,000 gallons or less
of waste water per day (M.S. § 116.18, subd. 3c) or uses an alternative
discharging system treating 10,000 gallons per day using treatment methods and
disposal other than subsurface soil treatment and disposal (M.S. Chapter 103I).
   WELL. A well as defined in M.S. § 103I.005, subd. 21, and all other eligible
water supplies under M.S. § 17.117.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 89-2018, passed 12-18-18)
§ 56.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Borrowers may use any participating local lender. The Carver County
Board of Commissioners may designate by resolution a county department or
agency to serve as local lender for purposes of the grant program.
   (B)   The Carver County Board of Commissioners may designate by resolution a
loan administrator to administer the loan program to determine the eligibility
of property owners, and to approve eligibility of project expenses and
distribution of loan funds to eligible borrowers.
   (C)   All repairs and improvements made to SSTS or wells under this chapter
shall be performed by a licensed professional and shall comply with the agency
rules adopted pursuant to M.S. § 115.55, subd. 3 and Minn. Rules Chapters 7080
through 7083, and other applicable requirements.
   (D)   Loan funds shall be disbursed to eligible property owners according to
priority criteria adopted by the County Board. In considering loan requests,
the loan administrator shall consider criteria including, but not limited to,
the age and depth of the SSTS or well, the proximity of the SSTS or well to
contaminant sources, the pollution potential, and the risks to public health
and safety.
   (E)   Access to the fund is voluntary. Loans issued by the county when
acting as the local lender shall result in a lien on the benefiting property
according to the terms set forth in the Administrative Plan. The Administrative
Plan may be amended by the Carver County Board.
   (F)   The property owner has the right to prepay loans and assessments.
   (G)   Projects shall only be funded to the extent of funds available in the
loan fund.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 89-2018, passed 12-18-18)
§ 56.05 APPLICATION AND CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Property owners shall contact the Carver County Community Development
Agency (CDA) or Carver County Environmental Services to receive an application
form. The property owner shall complete the application, and submit it to the
Carver County CDA or other designated department or agency.
   (B)   CDA or other designated department or agency shall review
applications, contact applicants for additional information if needed and
forward applications to the loan program administrator for determination of
eligibility.
   (C)   Property owners shall have a site evaluation, system design and
construction bid completed by a licensed SSTS professional, licensed well
driller, or other qualified service provider, and provide this information to
the loan administrator along with any related information requested by the loan
administrator. The loan administrator shall review the information provided and
notify the property owner of eligibility for grant and loan funds and project
approval or disapproval. The loan administrator may request additional
information or construction bids for the project.
   (D)   Work on projects shall begin promptly after the property owner
receives approval by the loan program administrator. All repairs and
improvements made to SSTS or wells under this chapter shall be performed by a
licensed professional and shall comply with the agency rules adopted pursuant
to M.S. § 115.55, subd. 3, Minn. Rules Chapters 7080 through 7083,
Chapter 52 of this code, and other applicable requirements. The project must be
completed within one year of project approval, unless otherwise stated or
extended in writing by the loan administrator.
   (E)   Carver County shall inspect the site to observe installation and
conditions at the time of inspections. Inspections related to the installation
of any wells will be conducted by the Minnesota Department of Health. Copies of
the certification shall be promptly forwarded to the loan program
administrator.
   (F)   Upon receiving documentation of incurred costs for eligible project
components or certification of completion, the local lender shall distribute
the funds to the licensed contractor or other appropriate recipient in
accordance with the local lender.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 89-2018, passed 12-18-18)
§ 56.06 ELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   Eligible activities.
      (1)   Repair or replacement of an existing subsurface sewage treatment
system (SSTS) that does not conform with provisions of Minn. Rules Chapters
7080 through 7083 and/or
Chapter 52 of this code.
      (2)   Relocation of SSTS out of environmentally sensitive areas.
      (3)   Replacement of SSTS that are failing or non-conforming with an
expanded SSTS.
      (4)   Installation of new SSTS in compliance with Minn. Rules Chapters
7080 through 7083 and/or
Chapter 52 of this code, and all other applicable requirements at the time of
installation.
      (5)   Replacement of SSTS up to 30 days prior to loan application
submittal and in full compliance with this chapter.
      (6)   Abandonment of an existing SSTS.
      (7)   New connections or repairing old connections to collection systems
or municipal waste treatment systems, including connection fees, but excluding
components owned by a municipality.
      (8)   Expansion or upgrading of a conforming SSTS due to construction of
additional living quarters, new construction, or new or expanded use.
      (9)   Well projects:
         (a)   Sealing abandoned wells or wells that do not conform to M.S. §
103I.005, subd. 21, § 103I.301, subd. 1.
         (b)   Replacement or relocation of wells that do not conform to M.S.
§103I.005, subd. 21, § 103I.301, subd. 1.
         (c)   Replacement, relocation, or treatment of wells that do not
conform to U.S. EPA primary or secondary drinking water standards.
   (B)   Ineligible activities.
      (1)   Costs that were incurred after the termination date of the loan
agreement with the applicant.
      (2)   Well projects:
         (a)   Installation of new wells for new construction.
         (b)   Installation of new wells for increased yield or flow rate.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 89-2018, passed 12-18-18)
§ 56.07 LOAN FINANCING TERMS.
   (A)   Interest rate. Loans shall be made based on an interest rate to be
established by the County Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Term. Loans shall be made based on a term to be established by the
County Board of Commissioners in the Administrative Plan.
   (C)   Fees.
      (1)   Origination fee. An origination fee established by the County Board
of Commissioners and set forth in the fee-for-service schedule, shall be
charged for administration costs related to the implementation and management
of the loan program.
      (2)   Pre-application fee. The Carver County CDA may charge a pre-
application certification fee in an amount established by the County Board of
Commissioners.
   (D)   Loan amount. The maximum loan amount shall not exceed the total
incurred cost for eligible components of the project as set by the County Board
of Commissioners, and limits of M.S. § 17.117.
   (E)   Repayment. Repayments must be paid to the local lender issuing the
loan. Repayment of loans issued by the county when acting as a local lender
shall be made as a special assessment collected with the property tax payable
for the property.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 64-2008, passed 4-8-08; Am. Ord. 89-
2018, passed 12-18-18)
§ 56.08 APPEALS.
   The borrower may appeal a decision of the local lender in accordance with
established procedures and regulations applicable to the respective local
lender. Borrowers applying for a loan from the county when acting as a local
lender shall have the following appeal process.
   (A)   Right to appeal. An applicant may appeal a decision by the loan
administrator to deny or modify a SSTS loan application. Such appeal must be
made within 30 days of the notice of denial or modification.
   (B)   Hearing. An appeal from any order, requirement, decision, or
determination from the loan administrator shall be heard by the Board of
Adjustment within 30 days from the date of filing the appeal. The Board of
Adjustment shall give due notice thereof to the appellant and officer, from
whom the appeal is taken, and decide the same within 30 days of the hearing
date.
   (C)   Stay of action. An appeal stays all proceeding and furtherance of the
action appealed from unless the Board of Adjustment certifies that by reason of
the facts stated in the certificate the stay would cause imminent peril to life
or property.
   (D)   Action to Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment may reverse or
affirm wholly or partly or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or
determination appealed from and to that end shall have all of the powers of the
officer from whom the appeal was taken and may direct issuance of the loan. The
reasons for the Board of Adjustment’s decision shall be stated in writing.   
   (E)   Fee. Any applicant requesting a hearing with the Board of Adjustment
shall pay a non-refundable fee to assist in covering the costs of the Board of
Adjustment hearing.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 89-2018, passed 12-18-18)
§ 56.09 SEPARABILITY.
   (A)   If any part of this chapter shall be held invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, it shall not invalidate any other section, provision,
or part thereof.
   (B)   Amendments to M.S. § 17.117 enacted subsequent to the adoption of this
chapter shall take precedence over any conflicting provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 89-2018, passed 12-18-18)
§ 56.10 EFFECTIVE DATE AND DISSOLUTION.
   TThis chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after January 1,
2019 according to law. Carver County may dissolve the subsurface sewer
treatment system and well loan program by passing an ordinance complying with
the provisions of M.S. § 115.57.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 89-2018, passed 12-18-18)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
[Reserved]
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ALARM SYSTEMS
         
91.   PARKS AND RECREATION
         
92.   DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS
         
93.   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
         
94.   USE OF CANNABIS PRODUCTS IN PUBLIC PLACES
CHAPTER 90: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
90.01   Title
   
90.02   Purpose and scope
   
90.03   Definitions
   
90.04   Compliance
   
90.05   User fees; exemptions
   
90.06   Enforcement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the “Alarm Systems
Chapter,” except as herein referred to as “this chapter.”
(Ord. 44-89, passed -22-82)
§ 90.02 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public safety services which
serve the county from misuse and to provide for the maximum possible service to
alarm users. This chapter provides regulation for the use of burglary, robbery,
fire and medical alarms and establishes a system of administration and an
alarms user’s fee.
(Ord. 44-89, passed -22-82)
§ 90.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any equipment or device which emits an audible, visual or
electronic signal upon the detection of a potential burglary, robbery, fire,
medical emergency, trespass or property, intrusion. The term ALARM SYSTEM does
not include anti-theft or tampering alarms installed in any motor vehicle.
   ALARM USER. Any person in control of any building structure, facility or
tract of land wherein or whereon an alarm system is used or maintained within
the county.
   FALSE ALARMS. An alarm signal eliciting a response by public safety
personnel when a situation requiring a response does not exist, and which is
caused by the activation of the alarm system through mechanical failure, alarm
malfunction improper installation or the inadvertence of the owner or lessee of
the alarm system or of his or her employees or agents. FALSE ALARMS do not
include alarms caused by climatic conditions such as tornadoes, thunderstorms,
utility line mishaps, violent conditions of nature or any other conditions
which are clearly beyond the control of the alarm manufacturer, installer or
alarm user.
   PERSON. Any human being, corporation, partnership, firm, association or
other organization, any receiver, trustee, association, agent or other legal
representative of any of the foregoing or any other legal entity.
   PUBLIC SAFETY ANSWERING POINT. The central facility used to receive
emergency results for public safety services and general information from the
public to be dispatched to public safety personnel.
   PUBLIC SAFETY PERSONNEL. All personnel employed by any law enforcement
agency and any firefighting personnel and any ambulance personnel.
   SHERIFF. The County Sheriff or his or her designee.
(Ord. 44-89, passed -22-82)
§ 90.04 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No person shall locate, install construct, alter, repair, use or
maintain any alarm system within the county, except in full compliance with
this chapter and the standards adopted herein.
   (B)   All audible alarms shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Every person maintaining an alarm system with an audible alarm
signal shall post a notice containing the name and telephone number of a person
to be notified to render repairs or service to the alarm system during any hour
of the day or night upon activation of the alarm system. The notice shall be
posted at the main entrance to the premises or near the alarm in a position as
to be legible from the ground level adjacent to the building.
      (2)   Alarm systems with audible alarm signals that sound like police or
fire sirens are prohibited.
      (3)   All alarm systems with audible alarm signal, except for fire
alarms, shall have an automatic which will silence the audible alarm signal
within a period not to exceed 15 minutes.
   (C)   (1)   All persons using or maintaining any alarm system within the
county shall register the alarm system with the Sheriff, utilizing registration
forms to be furnished by the Sheriff, no later than the later of the following
dates:
         (a)   The sixtieth day after the effective date of this chapter; or
         (b)   The thirtieth day after the installation of the alarm system.
      (2)   Any alteration or modification of previously registered alarm
system shall be registered with the Sheriff, utilizing registration forms to be
furnished by the Sheriff, within 30 days of the commencement of the alteration
or modification.
   (D)   Financial institutions having an alarm system with a robbery signal
feature shall have an on- premises annunciator panel providing specific
annunciation of the sensors at a private monitoring location on the premises.
When, in the judgment of the Sheriff, no on-premises monitoring location is
feasible, the requirements of this section may be waived by the Sheriff. All
alarm systems installed in financial institutions after the effective date of
this chapter shall have annunciator panels when installed. All alarm systems
currently used by financial institutions shall have the annunciator panels
installed within one year from the effective date of this chapter.
   (E)   Alarm systems that have more than one alarm signal function must
report specifically which of the functions has been violated, when reporting to
the Public Safety Answering Point for the purpose of dispatching public safety
personnel to the site of the alarm system.
   (F)   No alarm system shall connect directly to the Public Safety Answering
Point, except financial institutions and/or public buildings. All other alarms
must report to the Public Safety Answering Point in some other manner. No
automatic telephone dialing device shall be allowed to dial direct or be
programmed so that it dials directly into the Public Safety Answering Point.
(Ord. 44-89, passed -22-82)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.05 USER FEES; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   An alarm user fee is hereby imposed upon any alarm user from whose
alarm system emanates more than 3 false alarms within any 12 consecutive month
period. The fees payable under this section shall be set from time to time by
Board ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   All federal, state, county and/or municipal buildings and all
public schools shall be exempt from the alarm user’s fee.
      (2)   All newly installed alarm systems are hereby granted a 30-day
probationary period, commencing on the date of first operational use thereof,
during which period false alarms will not be counted for the purpose of
computing the amount of any alarm user fee imposed by this chapter.
      (3)   All alarm systems which are altered by the addition to any new
alarm feature are hereby granted a 15-day probationary period, commencing on
the date of first operational use of the new feature, during which period false
alarms will not be counted for the purpose of computing the amount of any alarm
user fee imposed by this chapter.
   (C)   Subsequent to any false alarm, the Sheriff shall notify the affected
alarm user in writing of the date of the false alarm, the apparent reason
therefor and the alarm user fee imposed pursuant to this chapter. It shall be
the duty of each alarm user to pay all alarm user fees imposed by this chapter
to the Sheriff within 30 days of the date of mailing of the Sheriff’s fee
statement specifying the amount of the alarm user fees. For the purpose of
mailing the Sheriff’s fee statement under this section, the statement shall be
mailed to the affected alarm user at his, her or its address shown on the
registration form required by
§ 90.04(C).
   (D)   One-half of all alarm user fees collected by the Sheriff shall be
remitted to the county to defray its administrative and prosecution costs
incurred in connection with the enforcement of this chapter. The other half of
the alarm user fees shall be retained by the Sheriff to defray his or her
administrative costs incurred in enforcing this chapter.
(Ord. 44-89, passed -22-82)
§ 90.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If in the judgment of public safety personnel at the scene of an
alarm, it is determined that the alarm user should appear at the location of
any alarm for the purpose of admitting public safety personnel to the subject
premises to investigate any alarm system signal, for the purposes of
deactivating any alarm system signal or for the purpose of identifying third
parties found on the subject premises during the investigation of any alarm
system signal, the alarm user shall appear immediately if so requested by the
Sheriff.
   (B)   If an alarm user has had more than 3 false alarms in a 12-month
period, the alarm user, upon the written request of the Sheriff, shall be
required to submit in written form a description of any steps being taken to
remedy any problems with false alarms emanating from the alarm user’s location.
   (C)   The Sheriff shall promulgate the rules and regulations as necessary
for the implementation and/or administration of this chapter.
(Ord. 44-89, passed -22-82)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who falls to comply with the provisions of this chapter, is
guilty of a misdemeanor, in addition to being subject to the alarm users fees
imposed by this chapter. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   In the event of a violation or a threat of violation of this chapter,
the county may institute appropriate action or proceeding, including requesting
injunctive relief to prevent restrain, correct or abate the violation or
threatened violation.
   (C)   If a person fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter, the
county may recover costs, damages or alarm user fees in a civil action in any
court of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   In addition to the remedies specified in divisions (A) and (B) above,
but in lieu of the remedy specified in division (C) above, the county may
certify any unpaid alarm user fees to the County Auditor or County Finance
Director as a governmental services lien for collection with the real property
taxes imposed on the real property upon which the alarm system is or was
located.
(Ord. 44-89, passed -22-82)
CHAPTER 91: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Authority
   
91.03   Definitions
   
91.04   Public use regulations
   
91.05   Conduct; personal behavior
   
91.06   Operation requirements
   
91.07   Protection of property, structures and resources
   
91.08   Recreation activities
   
91.09   Traffic regulations
   
91.10   Enforcement
   
91.11   Slow-no wake watercraft restrictions on designated lakes
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Park Commission, see §
30.01
§ 91.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter, which is enacted pursuant to M.S. Chapter 398,
as it may be amended from time to time, is for the Board to secure the quiet,
orderly and suitable use and enjoyment of public county park properties, and to
protect the health, safety, and welfare of all persons using county parks.
(Ord. 30, passed 4-14-87; Am. Ord. 72-2011, passed 1-17-12; Am. Ord. 86-2018,
passed 8-21-18; Am. Ord. 105-2024, passed 5-21-24)
§ 91.02 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Board, under M.S. §§ 398.31 to 398.36, as it may be amended from
time to time, in performing its primary duty of the acquisition, development,
and maintenance of county parks, wildlife sanctuaries, forest, and other
reservations, and providing the means for public access to historic sites,
lakes, rivers, streams, and other natural phenomena is granted full power and
authority to acquire and establish county parks and to operate, maintain,
protect, and improve a park system and conduct a recreational program. As an
aid to the accomplishment of these duties, the Board is granted the authority
to enact ordinances and to declare that the violation thereof shall be a
payable or a penal offense.
   (B)   The Board, under M.S. Chapter 342, or successor statute chapter, M.S.
§§ 145A.04 and 145A.05, or successor statutes, M.S. § 144.414, or successor
statute, and M.S. § 152.0263, or successor statute, has the power and authority
to limit the use of alcohol, tobacco, cannabis flower, cannabis products, hemp-
derived consumer products, and lower-potency hemp edibles in public places in
Carver County, Minnesota.
(Ord. 30, passed 4-14-87; Am. Ord. 72-2011, passed 1-17-12; Am. Ord. 86-2018,
passed 8-21-18; Am. Ord. 105-2024, passed 5-21-24)
§ 91.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT CONTRAPTIONS. Any device, contrivance, gadget, machine, or
structure designed to test the skill or strength of the user or to provide the
user with any sort of ride, lift, swing, or fall experience including, but not
limited to, ball throwing contest devices, pinball type devices, electronic
videos, animal ride devices, dunk tanks, ball and hammer devices, trampoline
devices, and the like.
   AREA or AREAS. A specified place within a PARK.
   ASSISTED MOBILITY DEVICE. Any permitted single passenger, electric powered
device, which provides access for a PERSON(S) in need of assistance due to a
medical condition.
   BEACH. The part of a body of water and shore designated for swimming.
   BICYCLE. Any non-motorized VEHICLE which is driven by means of pedaling.
Such VEHICLES include, but are not limited to, road bicycles, mountain
bicycles, recumbent bicycles, tricycles, and mopeds with the motor off.
   BOARD. The appointed and elected members of the County Board of
Commissioners.
   CANNABIS FLOWER. The harvested flower, bud, leaves, and stems of a cannabis
plant. CANNABIS FLOWER includes adult-use cannabis flower and medical cannabis
flower. CANNABIS FLOWER does not include cannabis seed, hemp plant parts, or
hemp-derived consumer products.
   CANNABIS PRODUCTS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Cannabis concentrate;
      (2)   A product infused with cannabinoids, including but not limited to
tetrahydrocannabinol, extracted, or derived from cannabis plants or cannabis
flower; or
      (3)   Any other product that contains cannabis concentrate.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any drug substance or immediate precursor in M.S. §
152.02, as it may be amended from time to time.
   COUNTY. The County of Carver.
   CREATIVE PLAY AREA. An outdoor area set aside for recreation and play,
especially one containing equipment such as slides and swings.
   DISC GOLF. A game played much like traditional golf. Instead of using a ball
and clubs, players use a flying disc or frisbee from a tee area to an elevated
target basket which is the "hole."
   GEOCACHING. An outdoor recreational activity that involves the use of a
global positioning system (GPS) receiver to find an object or geocache placed
at a pre-determined location. The internet is often used to provide the
direction and coordinates of the geocache.
   HEMP-DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCTS.
      (1)   A product intended for human or animal consumption, does not
contain cannabis flower or cannabis concentrate, and:
         (a)   Contains or consists of hemp plant parts; or
         (b)   Contains hemp concentrate or artificially derived cannabinoids
in combination with other ingredients.
      (2)   Hemp-derived consumer products does not include artificially
derived cannabinoids, lower-potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived topical
products, hemp fiber products, or hemp grain.
   HIKING. Traveling on foot, specifically, walking, running, or with an
ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE.
   HORSE. A horse, mule, donkey, llama, alpaca, or other ungulate or ruminant
that is used to transport people, equipment, or materials.
   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLES. Any product that:
      (1)   Is intended to be eaten or consumed as a beverage by humans;
      (2)   Contains hemp concentrate or an artificially derived cannabinoid in
combination with food ingredients;
      (3)   Is not a drug;
      (4)   Consists of servings that contain no more than five milligrams of
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol, 25 milligrams of cannabinol, or any combination
of those cannabinoids that does not exceed the identified amounts;
      (5)   Does not contain more than a combined total of 0.5 milligrams of
all other cannabinoids per serving;
      (6)   Does not contain an artificially derived cannabinoid other than
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol;
      (7)   Does not contain a cannabinoid derived from cannabis plants or
cannabis flower; and
      (8)   Is a type of product approved for sale by the office or is
substantially similar to a product approved by the office, including, but not
limited to, products that resemble nonalcoholic beverages, candy, and baked
goods.
   MALT LIQUOR. Any beer, ale, or other beverage made from malt by fermentation
and containing not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume.
   METAL DETECTING. To use an electronic or mechanical device to locate metals
or other artifacts that are underground or under water.
   MOTORIZED RECREATION VEHICLE. Any self-propelled, off the road or all-
terrain VEHICLE including, but not limited to, snowmobile, mini-bike,
amphibious VEHICLE, motorcycle, go-cart, trail bike, dune buggy, or all-terrain
cycle.
   NATURAL RESOURCES. All flora and fauna within the parks and the physical
factors upon which they depend, including air, water, soil, and minerals.
   PARK. Any land, water area, or trail corridor, and all facilities thereon,
owned, leased, controlled, or under the jurisdiction of the county, whether
through a lease, rental agreement, license agreement, or any other such
agreement or instrument, for the recreational enjoyment of the public.
   PARKS AND RECREATION DIRECTOR. The person selected by the BOARD to serve as
the Chief Administrative Officer of the PARKS DEPARTMENT.
   PARKS DEPARTMENT. An operating unit of the Public Works Division responsible
for the planning, development, operation, and maintenance of county parks.
   PERSON or PERSONS. Any individual natural human being, partnership, firm,
corporation, association, society, or any group or gathering whatsoever.
   PET. Any animal that is tamed and domesticated and kept as a companion.
   POLLUTANT. Any substance, solid, liquid, or gas, which could cause
contamination of air, land, or water, so as to create or cause a nuisance or
render unclean, noxious, or impure so as to be actually or potentially harmful,
detrimental, or injurious to public health, safety, or welfare, or that of
wildlife or vegetation.
   PROPERTY. Any land, waters, facilities, or possessions of the county.
   RESOLUTION. Official control promulgated by the BOARD establishing
additional rules and regulations relative to this chapter, and as on file in
the County Auditor's Office.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON. The parent, guardian, or PERSON having lawful custody
and control of a minor.
   ROLLER SKATER. Any PERSON riding or propelling oneself by human power or
gravity on wheeled devices that are worn on a PERSON'S feet or stood upon by a
PERSON. Such devices specifically include, but are not limited to, roller
skates, in-line skates, roller skis, skateboards, and scooters.
   SMOKE/SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or
heated cigar, cigarette, pipe, or any other lighted or heated product
containing, made, or derived from nicotine, tobacco, marijuana, or any other
plant intended for inhalation, whether natural or synthetic, including but not
limited to cannabis flower, cannabis products, or hemp-derived consumer
products. SMOKING includes the inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying of
nicotine, tobacco, or any other substance intended for human consumption
through inhalation of a vapor or aerosol from an electronic delivery device
manufactured, distributed, marketed, or sold as an e-cigarette, e-cigar, e-
pipe, e-hookah, or vape pen, or under any other product name or descriptor.
   TOBACCO. Tobacco has the meaning given in M.S. § 609.685, subd. 1(a), as it
may be amended from time to time.
   USE. To ingest, inhale, or otherwise consume or introduce a substance into
the human body in any manner, to leave, discard, or abandon a substance, or to
smoke, vaporize, or aerosolize a substance through burning, heating, spraying,
or any other method whatsoever.
   USE PERMIT. The written permission that must be obtained from the Parks
Division to carry out a given activity.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any PERSON or PROPERTY is or may
be transported or drawn upon a roadway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   WATERCRAFT. Any contrivance used or designated for navigation on water other
than seaplanes.
   WEAPON. Any device, including, but not limited to, firearms, bows,
electronic weapons, slings, and pellet or BB guns, from which a shot or
projectile of any type is discharged or propelled by means of an explosive,
gas, compressed air, or other means. An ELECTRONIC WEAPON means a portable
device which is designed, used, or intended to be used, offensively or
defensively, to immobilize or incapacitate persons by the use of an electronic
current.
   WILDLIFE. Any living creature, not human, wild by nature, endowed with
sensation, power of voluntary motion, including, but not limited to, mammals,
birds, fish, amphibians, reptiles, crustaceans, and mollusks.
   WINE. A vinous beverage containing no more than 14% alcohol by volume.
(Ord. 30, passed 4-14-87; Am. Ord. 72-2011, passed 1-17-12; Am. Ord. 82-2015,
passed 1-5-16; Am. Ord. 86-2018, passed 8-21-18; Am. Ord. 105-2024, passed 5-
21-24)
§ 91.04 PUBLIC USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Hours of operation.
      (1)   County parks shall be open to the public daily at hours established
by the Board. It shall be unlawful for any person to enter or remain in a park
at any other time without a use permit, except when the park area or facility
is otherwise designated open to the public by the Board.
      (2)   Either the Board, the Parks and Recreation Director or his or her
designee is authorized to close any park or portion thereof at any time for the
protection of park property or for the public health, safety, or welfare.
   (B)   Use permits.
      (1)   Use permits shall be required for the exclusive or special use of
all or portions of county park areas, buildings, or trails; for use of park
areas and facilities when they are closed to the public; to conduct certain
activities not normally permitted as per conditions of this chapter; for
regulation of large group activities, as defined herein; or to reduce or
eliminate certain user fees for groups, as defined herein.
      (2)   Procedures to issue use permits shall be in accordance with
guidelines established by Board resolution.
      (3)   Use permits shall be approved by the Director or his or her
authorized designee, or if required by this chapter, by the Board. However, the
Director reserves the right to defer any use permit approval to the Board.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for a person or persons to violate any
provisions of an approved use permit.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for a person or persons to engage in any
activity requiring a use permit without first obtaining the permit.
   (C)   User and special use fees/modifications.
      (1)   User fees for entrance into county parks and special use fees for
various park uses shall be set by Board resolution.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, without payment, any
facility or area for which a user fee or special use fee is charged, unless
payment is reduced or waived by use permit.
      (3)   Upon group request for reduction or elimination of fees, the
issuing authority shall evaluate the request including, but not limited to, the
following factors:
         (a)   Charitable nonprofit;
         (b)   Property or income tax supported; and
         (c)   Educational or religious.
      (4)   Use permits to reduce or eliminate fees shall be approved by the
Board, the Director or his or her authorized designee. The Director reserves
the right to defer any fee modification request to the Board.
   (D)   Use by groups. Use permits shall be required for any entertainment,
tournament, exhibition, or any other special use which can reasonably be
expected to have 20 or more persons involved or potentially have a detrimental
effect on park property or other park users.
   (E)   Vehicle permits. It shall be unlawful for any person to bring a motor
vehicle into a park (where a vehicle permit is required) without appropriately
displaying an approved annual, daily, or temporary vehicle permit, attached
with its own adhesive, hung from a rear-view mirror or otherwise displayed as
directed, unless exempted by a use permit.
(Ord. 30, passed 4-14-87; Am. Ord. 65-2009, passed 8-4-09; Am. Ord. 72-2011,
passed 1-17-12; Am. Ord. 86-2018, passed 8-21-18; Am. Ord. 105- 2024, passed 5-
21-24) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 CONDUCT; PERSONAL BEHAVIOR.
   (A)   Drug and alcohol use. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Use, possess, or sell any controlled substance in violation of
state statutes;
      (2)   Serve, possess, or consume any alcoholic beverage, except malt
liquor and wine, within a county park, except at areas designated by either the
Board, or by use permit approved by the Board;
      (3)   Serve, possess, consume, or bring beer or wine into a park in kegs,
barrels, or other bulk tap quantities; and/or
      (4)   Smoke or use cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp
edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products anywhere within the county parks,
including within a motor vehicle as defined in M.S. § 169A.03, subd. 15, or
within a recreational vehicle as defined in M.S. § 168.002, subd. 27, when such
vehicle is parked or otherwise present within the county parks.
   (B)   Gambling. It shall be unlawful for any person to gamble or participate
in any game of chance for a consideration of items of value, except charitable
gambling as approved by either the Board or by use permit approved by the
Board.
   (C)   Disorderly conduct. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in
disorderly conduct as defined in M.S. § 609.72, subd. 1, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (D)   Property of others. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Intentionally disturb, harass, or interfere with a park visitor's
property; and/or
      (2)   Leave or store personal property on park property without prior
authorization from either the Board, the Director his or her designee, or by
use permit.
   (E)   Littering. It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, scatter,
drop, or abandon bottles, cans, broken glass, hot coals, ashes, sewage, waste,
or other materials in a park, except in receptacles provided for those
purposes.
   (F)   Firearms; dangerous weapons; fireworks. It shall be unlawful for any
person to:
      (1)   Have in their possession within a park, fire or discharge, or cause
to be fired or discharged across, in, or into any portion of a park, any gun or
firearm, spear, bow and arrow, crossbow, sling shot, air or gas weapon,
paintball gun, or any other dangerous weapon or projectile, except for purposes
designated by either the Board, the Director or his or her designee, or by use
permit approved by the Board, in areas and at times designated by the Director;
and/or persons who possess a valid Minnesota permit, or a valid permit from
another state which is recognized in Minnesota, may carry, hold, keep, store,
or possess a pistol within the park lands, facilities, and buildings to the
extent permitted by state law. Employees or volunteers when acting in the
course and scope of their employment or duties are prohibited from carrying,
holding, keeping, storing, or possessing a pistol within park lands,
facilities, and buildings. Licensed peace officers are exempt from the
provisions of this division.
      (2)   Set off or attempt to set off or ignite any firecracker, fireworks,
smoke bombs, rockets, black powder guns, or other pyrotechnics without
authorization from either the Board or by use permit approved by the Board.
   (G)   Smoking and use of tobacco and cannabis. It shall be unlawful for any
person to:
      (1)   Smoke or use any tobacco product, cannabis flower, cannabis
product, lower- potency hemp edible, or hemp-derived consumer product in or
within 25 feet of any indoor area; or
      (2)   Smoke or use any tobacco product, cannabis flower, cannabis
product, lower-potency hemp edible, or hemp-derived consumer product inside the
designated perimeter of any creative play area or beach.
   (H)   Child safety. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Permit a child age ten or under to be in a creative play area
unless under the supervision of a responsible person;
      (2)   Permit a child age ten or under to swim or wade at beaches or swim
ponds within a county park, unless under the supervision of a responsible
person. Swimming is not permitted in other areas; or
      (3)   Permit a child age ten or under to be in a designated sledding hill
area unless under the supervision of a responsible person.
   (I)   Interference with employee performance of duty. It shall be unlawful
for any person to impersonate any employee of the Parks Department or interfere
with, harass, or hinder any employee in the discharge of their duties.
(Ord. 30, passed 4-14-87; Am. Ord. 72-2011, passed 1-17-12; Am. Ord. 82-2015,
passed 1-5-16; Am. Ord. 86-2018, passed 8-21-18; Am. Ord. 105-2024, passed 5-
21-24) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Commercial use; solicitation; advertising and photography. It shall be
unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Solicit, sell, or otherwise peddle any goods, wares, merchandise,
services, liquids, or edibles in a park, except by authorized concession or
written permission granted by the Board;
      (2)   Operate a still, motion picture, video, or other camera for
commercial purposes in a park without prior authorization from either the
Board, the Director or his or her designee, or by use permit approved by the
Board; and
      (3)   Expose, distribute, or place any sign, advertisement, notice,
poster, or display in a park without authorization from the Parks Department.
   (B)   Pets in parks. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Bring any dog, cat, or other pet into a park, unless caged or kept
on a leash not more than six feet in length and under the handler's control,
unless in a pet exercise area designated by the Board;
      (2)   Allow any dog, cat, or other pet to enter a beach area, nature
center area, refuge area, picnic area, park building, or other "no pet"
designated areas within a park;
      (3)   Permit a pet under his or her control to disturb, harass, or
interfere with any park visitor, a park visitor's property, or a park employee;
      (4)   Tether any animal to a tree, plant, building, or park equipment;
and/or
      (5)   Have custody or control of any dog or domestic pet in a designated
area of a park without possessing an appropriate device for cleaning up pet
feces and disposing of it in a sanitary manner.
   (C)   Noise; amplification of sound.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the prior
authorization either of the Board, the Director or his or her designee, or by
use permit, to:
         (a)   Install, use, or operate within the park a loudspeaker or sound
amplifying equipment in a fixed or movable position or mounted upon any sound
truck for the purposes of giving instructions, directions, talks, addresses,
lectures, or transmitting music to any persons or assemblages of persons in or
upon any place within the park;
         (b)   Use or operate, or permit the use or operation of any radio,
tape player, phonograph, television set, music amplifier, or other machine or
device for the production or reproduction of sound in a manner as to be
disturbing or a nuisance to reasonable persons of normal sensitivity within the
area of audibility; and/or
         (c)   Willfully make or continue, or cause to be made or continued,
any loud, unnecessary, or unusual noise which disturbs the peace or quiet
within any park or which causes discomfort or annoyance to any reasonable park
visitor of normal sensitivity, except as duly authorized for special programs
at dates and times.
      (2)   The standards which shall be considered in determining whether a
violation of the provisions of this section exists shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
         (a)   Level of the noise;
         (b)   The intensity of the noise;
         (c)   Whether the nature of the noise is usual or unusual;
         (d)   The level and intensity of the background noise, if any;
         (e)   The type of area within which the noise emanates;
         (f)   The intensity of human use of the area during the time at which
the noise emanates;
         (g)   The time of the day or night the noise occurs;
         (h)   The duration of the noise; and
         (i)   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent, or constant.
   (D)   Fires. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Start a fire in a park, except in a designated area, and then only
in fire rings, portable stoves, or grills, except by use permit;
      (2)   Leave a fire unattended or fail to fully extinguish a fire; and/or
      (3)   Scatter or leave unattended lighted matches, ashes, burning
tobacco, paper, or other combustible material.
   (E)   Assemblies, meetings, and the like. It shall be unlawful for any
person to conduct public meetings, assemblies, worship services, entertainment,
parades, or demonstrations within a park without a use permit or prior
authorization from either the Board, the Director or his or her designee, or by
use permit.
   (F)   Amusement contraptions. It shall be unlawful to bring in, set up,
construct, manage, or operate any amusement or entertainment contraption,
device, or gadget without prior authorization from either the Board, the
Director or his or her designee, or by use permit.
   (G)   Engine-powered models and toys. It shall be unlawful for any person to
start, fly, or use any fuel or battery powered model aircraft, model boat,
rocket, or like powered toy or model.
   (H)   Unlawful occupancy. It shall be unlawful for any person to enter in
any way any building, installation, or area that may be under construction,
locked, or closed to public use, or to enter or be upon any building,
installation, or area after the posted closing time or before the posted
opening time, or contrary to posted notice in any park.
   (I)   Aviation. It shall be unlawful to use park property for a starting or
landing field for aircraft, hot air balloons, parachutes, hang gliders, or
other flying apparatus without a permit.
(Ord. 30, passed 4-14-87; Am. Ord. 61-2007, passed 11-6-07; Am. Ord. 72-2011,
passed 1-17-12; Am. Ord. 86-2018, passed 8-21-18; Am. Ord. 105-2024, passed 5-
21-24) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 PROTECTION OF PROPERTY, STRUCTURES AND RESOURCES.
   (A)   Disturbance of natural features. It shall be unlawful for any person
to:
      (1)   Intentionally remove, alter, injure, or destroy any tree, other
plant, rock, soil, or mineral;
      (2)   Dig trenches, holes, or other excavations;
      (3)   Introduce any plant, animal, or other agent within a park without a
use permit, and other permits as required by state and federal law;
      (4)   Harvest/grow/cultivate a controlled substance;
      (5)   Cut or gather wood;
      (6)   Engage in metal detecting for reclaiming lost personal property
without a permit; and/or
      (7)   Transport, possess, or burn firewood in a county park unless the
firewood is purchased from the county or a Minnesota Department of Natural
Resources approved firewood vendor.
   (B)   Disturbance of wildlife. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Kill, trap, hunt, pursue, or in any manner disturb or cause to be
disturbed, any species of wildlife, except in nuisance situations as permitted
by a use permit;
      (2)   Remove any animal, living or dead, from a park without a use
permit; and any animal so removed or taken contrary to the provisions of this
chapter or laws of the state shall be considered contraband and subject to
seizure and confiscation; and/or
      (3)   Release or abandon any animal within a park.
   (C)   Destruction or defacement. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Intentionally deface, vandalize, or otherwise cause destruction to
park property; and/or
      (2)   Intentionally deface, destroy, cover, damage, or remove any
placard, notice, sign, or parts thereof, whether permanent or temporary, posted
or exhibited by the Public Works Division.
   (D)   Release of harmful or foreign substances. It shall be unlawful for any
person to:
      (1)   Place any debris or other pollutant in or upon any park lands or
any body of water in or adjacent to a park, or any tributary, stream, storm
sewer, or drain flowing into the waters; and/or
      (2)   Discharge waste water or any other wastes in a park, except into
designated containers, drains, or dumping stations.
   (E)   Interference of park property. It shall be unlawful for any person to
cause or permit physical encroachment upon park property including, but not
limited to, actions such as mowing of grasses, and/or placement of personal
property, debris, materials, buildings, sheds, other structures, informal
trails, or signs on park lands unless permitted.
(Ord. 30, passed 4-14-87; Am. Ord. 72-2011, passed 1-17-12; Am. Ord. 86-2018,
passed 8-21-18; Am. Ord. 105-2024, passed 5-21-24) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 RECREATION ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Camping. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Camp in a park, except in areas provided and designated for that
purpose;
      (2)   Camp without a use permit from the park system;
      (3)   Occupy camp sites in a park contrary to a permit or otherwise
violate provisions of a use permit;
      (4)   Operate any vehicle within a campground during posted quiet hours,
except in emergencies;
      (5)   Camp overnight in a park if under 18 years of age, unless
accompanied by parent or legal guardian, or possessing written permission from
a parent or legal guardian;
      (6)   Camp in a park longer than ten consecutive days; and/or
      (7)   Camp in a park more than 14 days in a calendar month without
approval of the Director or his or her designee.
   (B)   Picnicking. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Assume exclusive use of a reservation picnic site without a use
permit;
      (2)   Use a portion of a reservation picnic area without a permit if the
area is reserved by a permitted group;
      (3)   Conduct picnic activity at reservation picnic sites contrary to a
use permit or otherwise violate provisions of a use permit; and/or
      (4)   Set up temporary shelters, such as tents, tarps, canopies, and
other devices, other than in designated camping areas, without authorization by
a use permit.
   (C)   Swimming. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Wade or swim within a park, except at beaches and at times
designated by the Board for those uses;
      (2)   Wade, swim, or use any beach in a park without proper attire;
      (3)   Take glass bottles or glass containers of any kind into designated
beach areas;
      (4)   Use outside of a beach area so designated, any innertube, life
raft, or other inflatable or buoyant object or flotation device intended to
support a person, except persons are permitted to use a U.S. Coast Guard
approved life jacket or vest when properly attached; and/or
      (5)   Fail to obey posted beach safety rules as established by Board
resolution for each park system beach.
   (D)   Boating. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Launch or land any watercraft upon any waters within a park, except
at designated locations and times;
      (2)   Leave any watercraft unattended on land or in the water, except in
designated areas;
      (3)   Operate any watercraft in a designated swimming area or other
prohibited area;
      (4)   Operate a watercraft in a park; and/or
      (5)   Tow a person on water skis, surf board, knee board, innertube, or
jet ski in a designated swimming area, boat launching area, or other
unauthorized area, or enter a designated swimming area on the device.
   (E)   Fishing. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Fish in a park in violation of any provision; and/or
      (2)   Fish in a prohibited area.
   (F)   Horses and horseback riding. It shall be unlawful for any person to
ride, lead, or allow a horse within a park except as authorized by the Board
for park patrolling and by use permit.
   (G)   Bicycling. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Operate any type of bicycle, except on roadways, paved or aggregate
surfaced trail, and designated trails;
      (2)   Operate any type of bicycle except as close to the right-hand side
of the authorized trail or roadway as conditions permit, or to cross to the
left of a solid yellow centerline;
      (3)   Operate a bicycle in violation of M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be
amended from time to time;
      (4)   Ride or operate a bicycle, except in a prudent and careful manner,
and at speed faster than is reasonable and safe with regard to the safety of
the operator and other persons in the immediate area; and/or
      (5)   Park a bicycle at any park beach except at a bicycle rack if the
rack is provided.
   (H)   Snowmobiling. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Operate a snowmobile anywhere in a park, except on designated
trails and then only on the right-hand side of the trail;
      (2)   Operate a snowmobile in a park contrary to rules and regulations
issued by the Board;
      (3)   Operate a snowmobile in a park in excess of posted speed limits
when present or at a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under
current conditions, or in a careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to
endanger the person or property of another or to cause injury or damage
thereto;
      (4)   Operate a snowmobile in violation of M.S. §§ 84.81-84.91, as they
may be amended from time to time, and published annually in the Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources Snowmobile Rules and Regulations (all rules and
regulations therein pertaining to "public land and water" shall apply on park
property);
      (5)   Operate a snowmobile in violation of any posted trail sign; and/or
      (6)   Tow another person or thing, except through the use of a rigid tow
bar attached to the rear of the snowmobile, except in emergencies.
   (I)   Cross-country skiing. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Cross-country ski in any park, except on designated trails at
designated times when weather and grounds conditions permit;
      (2)   Conduct an organized meet or race on park cross-country ski trails
without a use permit;
      (3)   Cross-country ski in a park in violation of M.S. §§ 85.40-85.45, as
they may be amended from time to time; and/or
      (4)   Operate a dog sled or any motorized recreation vehicle on cross-
country ski trails.
   (J)   Other special activity uses. It shall be unlawful for any person to
participate in or conduct any activity, except those uses for which a park area
or facility has been planned or promoted by the Parks Department, without a use
permit.
   (K)   Other winter activities. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Ice skate, sled, coast, snowshoe, or ski in a park except at
designated times and places; and/or
      (2)   Enter an area marked by signs indicating thin ice.
   (L)   Hiking. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Hike in a park except in recreation use areas and on designated
trails and roadways, unless authorized by special use permit; and/or
      (2)   Hike on designated packed or groomed cross-country ski trails after
a two-inch or more snowfall.
   (M)   Geocaching. It shall be unlawful for any person to place a geocache in
a park except by permit.
   (N)   Disc golfing. It shall be unlawful for any person to play disc golf in
a park except in designated areas or by permit.
(Ord. 30, passed 4-14-87; Am. Ord. 72-2011, passed 1-17-12; Am. Ord. 86-2018,
passed 8-21-18; Am. Ord. 105-2024, passed 5-21-24) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Motorized recreation vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate a motorized recreation vehicle within a park, except in areas and at
times as designated by either the Board, the Director or his or her designee,
or by use permit.
   (B)   Vehicle operation. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Operate a vehicle at a speed in excess of 25 mph or posted speed
limits;
      (2)   Operate any vehicle within a park, except upon roadways, parking
areas, or other designated locations therefore, unless it is an assisted
mobility device permitted by the Parks Department;
      (3)   Operate a vehicle within a park in violation of posted regulations,
M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be amended from time to time, or municipal traffic
codes, or orders or directions of traffic officers authorized to direct
traffic;
      (4)   Operate a vehicle in a careless or reckless manner;
      (5)   Operate a vehicle which emits excessive or unusual noise, noxious
fumes, dense smoke, or other pollutants; and/or
      (6)   Fail to yield right-of-way to pedestrians and other trail users.
   (C)   Parking vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Park or leave a vehicle standing, except in a designated area and
then only in a manner so as not to restrict normal traffic flow;
      (2)   Leave a vehicle standing after posted closing hours without a valid
use permit;
      (3)   Park in a space designated for handicapped parking only, except
with handicapped vehicle license or permit;
      (4)   Park or leave a vehicle without a boat trailer in a parking space
designated for vehicles with boat trailers;
      (5)   Park a vehicle with a boat trailer, except in designated vehicle/
boat-trailer parking areas;
      (6)   Leave a vehicle unattended with keys in the ignition; and/or
      (7)   Park on the grass or sides of campground roads. Vehicles in
campsites must be parked on the gravel pads or designated campground parking
areas.
   (D)   Maintenance of personal vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person
to wash, polish, grease, change oil, or perform other maintenance on any
vehicle on park property, except in emergencies.
(Ord. 30, passed 4-14-87; Am. Ord. 72-2011, passed 1-17-12; Am. Ord. 86-2018,
passed 8-21-18; Am. Ord. 105-2024, passed 5-21-24) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The County Sheriff’s Department, local law enforcement agencies, and
agents of the State Department of Natural Resources, in connection with duties
imposed by law, shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and may issue
citations and eject from any park persons acting in violation of the provisions
of this chapter. The above agencies shall have the authority to seize,
confiscate, and impound any substance, plant, animal, vehicle, or other article
which upon probable cause, is found to be used or possessed in violation of
this chapter.
   (B)   The Board shall have the right to adopt by resolution additional rules
and regulations relative to this chapter.
   (C)   The County Sheriff's Department or local law enforcement agencies
shall have the authority to impound pets found in violation of this chapter and
shall collect an impoundment fee, plus a per diem fee, specified in the
contract for impounding of animals which may be in force within an animal
control service district.
   (D)   Either the Board or the Parks Department, shall have the authority to
revoke for good cause any use permit. Any permit or reservation may be revoked
upon violation by the permittee of any ordinance, rule, or regulation of the
county.
   (E)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent employees or agents of the Parks
Department from performing their assigned duties.
(Ord. 30, passed 4-14-87; Am. Ord. 72-2011, passed 1-17-12; Am. Ord. 86-2018,
passed 8-21-18; Am. Ord. 105-2024, passed 5-21-24)
§ 91.11 SLOW-NO WAKE WATERCRAFT RESTRICTIONS ON DESIGNATED LAKES.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known, cited, and referred to as the
Carver County Slow-No Wake Ordinance.
   (B)   Definitions. Terms used in this section related to boating are defined
in M.S. § 86B.005.
   (C)   Statutory authorization and purpose. 
      (1)   This section is enacted under the general powers delegated to the
counties by the State of Minnesota, pursuant to M.S. §§ 375.51, 86B.205, and
459.20, and Minn. Rules 6110.3000-6110.3800 as now in effect and as hereafter
amended.
      (2)   It is the intent and purpose of this section to:
            (a)   Promote the full use and enjoyment by all of the people, now
and in the future, and to promote safety for all persons and property in
connection with the use of waters of Carver County;
            (b)   Conserve the quality of the natural environment;
            (c)   Harmonize and integrate the varying uses of said waters; and
            (d)   Promote the general health, safety, and welfare of the
general public.
   (D)   Declaration and designated lakes. 
      (1)   The County Board of Commissioners declares a high water emergency
on the designated lakes as defined by division (D)(2) and imposes a slow-no
wake restriction pursuant to Minn. Rule 6110.3700, subpart 9.
      (2)   Designated lakes. This section shall control and regulate the use
of the waters of the following lakes located in Carver County along with the
following triggers:
 
Lake          Area of lake        Water Level at Which Slow-No Wake
                                  Restrictions Apply
Lake Bavaria  Entire water body   At or above ordinary high water level of
                                  972.7 feet
Reitz Lake    Entire water body   At or above ordinary high water level of
                                  937.8 feet
Lake Waconia  600 feet from shore At or above FEMA 100-yr, flood elevation
                                  962.92 feet
Lake Waconia  Entire water body   At or above ordinary high water level of
                                  963.1 feet
Piersons Lake Entire water body   At or above FEMA 100-yr. flood elevation
                                  962.98 feet
 
   (E)   Watercraft speed restrictions. During the period this section is in
effect, including any extensions herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to
operate a watercraft at greater than a slow-no wake speed (five miles per
hour), 24 hours per day within the slow-no wake restriction area specified on
any designated lake.
   (F)   Removal of speed restrictions. The slow-no wake restrictions shall be
promptly removed from any designated lake, pursuant to this section, once the
water body has been 0.1 feet below the elevation that triggers the slow-no wake
restriction for three consecutive days.
   (G)   Enforcement. The primary responsibility for enforcement of this
section shall rest with the Carver County Sheriff’s Office. Other licensed
peace officers, including conservation officers of the Minnesota Department of
Natural Resources, are also authorized to enforce the provisions of this
section.
   (H)   Penalty. A person guilty of violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as defined in M.S. § 609.02(3), as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (I)   Exceptions. All authorized resource management, emergency and
enforcement personnel, while acting in the performance of their assigned
duties, are exempt from the foregoing restrictions.
   (J)   Notification. It shall be the responsibility of Carver County to
provide for adequate notification to the public, which shall include
notification on its website and news releases. Carver County is also
responsible for placement of a sign at each designated lake public watercraft
access, outlining essential elements of this section.
(Ord. 98-2022, passed 5-3-22; Am. Ord. 105-2024, passed 5-21-24)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Unless otherwise specified herein, a person guilty of violating any
provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor pursuant to M.S. §
398.34 and as defined in M.S. § 609.02(3), as they may be amended from time to
time. A person guilty of violating §
91.05(A)(4) herein, shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor as defined in M.S. §
609.02(4a), as it may be amended from time to time. All fines collected under
this chapter shall be deposited into the County Park Fund.
(Ord. 30, passed 4-14-87; Am. Ord. 72-2011, passed 1-17-12; Am. Ord. 86-2018,
passed 8-21-18; Am. Ord. 105-2024, passed 5-21-24)
CHAPTER 92: DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS
Section
   
92.01   Purpose and intent
   
92.02   Title
   
92.03   Validity
   
92.04   Jurisdiction
   
92.05   Incorporation
   
92.06   Definitions
   
92.07   Designation of a potentially dangerous dog
   
92.08   Designation of a dangerous dog
   
92.09   Microchip identification
   
92.10   Confiscation
   
92.11   Destruction of dogs
   
92.12   Restrictions
   
92.13   Exemptions
   
92.14   Rabies quarantine
   
92.15   Cost
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Dogs classified as “dangerous” or “potentially dangerous” pose a
direct threat to the people, domestic animals and livestock of and in the
Carver County community. It is the intent of Carver County to protect the
public against the health and safety risks posed by dangerous and potentially
dangerous dogs. In order to do so, Carver County intends this chapter to
address the threat posed by these animals. To that end, this chapter utilizes
the statutory framework in M.S. §§ 347.50 through 347.565, which establishes
how municipalities are to address reports of dog attacks.
   (B)   Minnesota Statute § 347.51, subd. 8, and M.S. § 347.565 authorize
counties to establish a procedure by which a dog may be declared dangerous or
potentially dangerous, including the right to appeal that designation. Pursuant
to the authority granted by Minnesota Statutes, the Board of Commissioners of
Carver County prescribes the following procedures and enforcement regulations
governing dangerous dog designations. This chapter does not regulate, govern,
or control dogs not considered dangerous or potentially dangerous, or otherwise
impact the regulation and control of other animals, whether wild or domestic.
(Ord. 69-2010, passed 8-10-10)
§ 92.02 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited and referenced as, the
“Carver County Dangerous and Potentially Dangerous Dog Chapter;” and when
referred to herein, it shall be referenced to as “this chapter.”
(Ord. 69-2010, passed 8-10-10)
§ 92.03 VALIDITY.
   All sections and provisions of this chapter are deemed severable in nature.
Should a court of competent jurisdiction declare any particular section or
provision to be void, invalid, or unenforceable, that decision shall not affect
the validity of this chapter as a whole nor be construed as a determination
that any other section or provision is void, invalid, or unenforceable.
(Ord. 69-2010, passed 8-10-10)
§ 92.04 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of the County of Carver; except this
chapter does not apply in any city or town which has a dangerous dog ordinance
complying with state law and which has declared itself to be the animal control
authority within its jurisdiction. This chapter also does not apply to any dog
used by law enforcement officials for police work.
(Ord. 69-2010, passed 8-10-10)
§ 92.05 INCORPORATION.
   This chapter expressly adopts and incorporates the provisions of M.S. §§
347.50 through 347.565. When the provisions of this chapter impose greater
restrictions than those of any other statute, ordinance, rule, or regulation,
the provisions of this chapter shall be controlling. Where the provisions of
any other statute, ordinance, rule, or regulation impose greater restrictions
than this chapter, the provision of such statute, ordinance, rule, or
regulation shall be controlling.
(Ord. 69-2010, passed 8-10-10)
§ 92.06 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. Carver County or any law enforcement agent or
other public official acting under its direction and control. Additionally,
ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY shall mean any individual, organization, partnership,
or entity operating under contract to perform animal control operations
pursuant to a written agreement authorized and approved by the Carver County
Board of Commissioners, or any city or town located within Carver County which
has declared itself to be the ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY within its jurisdiction.
   BOARD. The Carver County Board of Commissioners.
   BODILY HARM, GREAT BODILY HARM, and SUBSTANTIAL BODILY HARM. Shall have the
meaning given to it under M.S. § 609.02.
   COUNTY. The County of Carver, a political subdivision of the State of
Minnesota.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that has:
      (1)   Without provocation, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a human
being on public or private property;
      (2)   When unprovoked, engaged in any attack on any person under
circumstances which indicated danger to personal safety;
      (3)   Killed a domestic animal without provocation while off the owner’s
property;
      (4)   Been found to be potentially dangerous, and after the owner has
received notice that the dog is potentially dangerous, the dog aggressively
bites, attacks, or endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals;
      (5)   When unprovoked, has bitten one or more persons on two or more
separate occasions; or
      (6)   Been or will be used, trained, or encouraged to fight with another
animal; or whose owner has in their custody or possession any training
apparatus, paraphernalia, or drugs used to prepare such dog for fighting with
another animal.
   HEARING. A proceeding conducted by a hearing officer in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   HEARING OFFICER. A licensed doctor of veterinary medicine, an Animal Control
Authority official, the County Administrator, or any otherwise qualified
impartial HEARING OFFICER appointed by the County Administrator.
   KILL, KILLS or KILLED. Any act in which there is a direct causal connection
between the act of the attacking dog and the death of the person or other
animal. For domestic animals which were euthanized following such an attack,
KILLED or KILLS shall mean the death was the direct consequence of the attack,
extensive veterinarian assistance would be futile, and that euthanasia merely
hastened the inevitable death of the victim animal.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, or department
possessing, harboring, keeping, having an interest in, or having care, custody,
or control of a dog. Any person in possession of a dog five consecutive days or
more shall, for the purposes of this chapter, be deemed to be an OWNER thereof.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that:
      (1)   When unprovoked, inflicts a bite on a human or domestic animal on
public or private property;
      (2)   When unprovoked, chases or approaches a person, including a person
on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public or private property,
other than the dog owner’s property, in an apparent attitude of attack; or
      (3)   Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
   PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors, or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure outdoors, suitable to prevent the animal from escaping
and providing the dog protection from the elements. A PROPER ENCLOSURE does not
include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure that
would allow the dog to exit of its own volition, or any house or structure in
which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the only
obstacles that prevent the dog from exiting. Such enclosure shall not allow the
egress of the animal in any manner without human assistance.
A pen or kennel, in order to qualify as a PROPER ENCLOSURE, shall meet the
following minimum specifications:
      (1)   The overall floor size shall have a minimum area of 32 square feet;
      (2)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support posts shall be one and one-quarter-inch or larger steel
pipe buried in the ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not
provided, the sidewalls shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches into the ground;
      (3)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided, shall be
constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls, and shall also
have no openings in the wire greater than two inches; and
      (4)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of the
same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire
greater than two inches. The gate shall be equipped with a device capable of
being locked and shall be locked at all times when the animal is in the pen or
kennel. The area under the gate shall be constructed and maintained in such a
way as to prevent the dog from digging under the gate.
   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the dog is not purposely excited,
stimulated, agitated, or disturbed. Any attack on a child 14 years of age or
younger is presumed to be UNPROVOKED. This presumption can be rebutted if
sufficient evidence is shown to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the child
was engaged in the commission of a crime or illegal activity, including
activities classified under M.S. § 343 as cruelty to animals.
(Ord. 69-2010, passed 8-10-10)
§ 92.07 DESIGNATION OF A POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
   (A)   Designation. Following the investigation of a dog attack incident, the
Animal Control Authority shall review all reports. Following that review, the
Animal Control Authority shall designate any dog potentially dangerous if there
is a preponderance of evidence that the dog acted in a manner described in
§92.06 above.
   (B)   Notice. 
      (1)   Upon determination that a dog is potentially dangerous, the Animal
Control Authority shall provide a written notice of potentially dangerous dog
to the owner of record, or if there is no owner of record, any owner of such
dog by personally serving the owner or a person of suitable age and discretion
at the residence of such owner.
      (2)   Service upon any owner shall be effective as to all owners.
      (3)   The notice shall state the dates, times, places, and facts of the
incidents which form the basis for the determination and shall include the
following:
         (a)   A description of the dog deemed to be potentially dangerous;
         (b)   The factual basis for that determination; and
         (c)   The identity of the official who made the determination.
         (d)   The notice shall also set forth the restrictions imposed upon a
potentially dangerous dog under this chapter.
      (4)   The notice shall also advise the owner(s) that they have five days
to ask the Office of the Carver County Attorney to review the designation and
shall include a pre-printed form that the owner may use to request the review.
The request for a review shall be made directly to the Animal Control Authority
and Office of the Carver County Attorney and must be submitted in writing.
      (5)   If the owner does not request a review within the allotted five
days, the designation of potentially dangerous dog as issued in the written
notice of potentially dangerous dog will stand, and the owner will be subject
to all restrictions and requirements as set forth in the notice by the Animal
Control Authority.
   (C)   Appeal of a potentially dangerous dog designation.
      (1)   Within five business days of being notified that their dog has been
designated a potentially dangerous dog by the Animal Control Authority, the
owner or custodian of the dog may request a review of the designation in
writing on a form provided by the Animal Control Authority and may submit
written and other documentary evidence that disputes the designation to the
Office of the Carver County Attorney. The Office of the Carver County Attorney
shall make a decision within seven days following the receipt of the written
request, based only upon the written evidence.
      (2)   Within five business days after a potentially dangerous dog
designation is confirmed by the Office of the Carver County Attorney, the owner
or custodian of the dog may request a hearing to contest the designation. The
request for a hearing shall be made in writing on a form provided by the Office
of the Carver County Attorney.
      (3)   The hearing shall be held before the Carver County Administrator or
by an independent hearing examiner selected by the Carver County Administrator,
not more than 15 days after receipt of the request for hearing. The Hearing
Officer may allow the hearing date to be extended beyond the 15-day period for
good cause. Any dog owner who requests such a hearing is liable to the county
for all costs and expenses related to the hearing.
      (4)   The Hearing Officer shall hear testimony of the parties and their
witnesses and shall consider exhibits offered by the parties. At the hearing,
both the owner and the Animal Control Authority may present the testimony of
live witnesses, cross-examine witnesses, and present documentary evidence. The
party offering an exhibit shall mark the party’s name on the exhibit in a
manner that will not obscure the exhibit. All exhibits will be returned to the
parties at the conclusion of the hearing unless otherwise ordered by the
Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer shall normally receive only evidence
admissible under the rules of evidence, but in the exercise of discretion and
in the interests of justice, may receive otherwise inadmissible evidence. The
records of the Animal Control Authority, any police reports relating to an
attack or bite, medical records, and all reliable hearsay shall be admissible
for consideration by the Hearing Officer without further foundation. The Animal
Control Authority and the dog’s owner may apply to the District Court for
subpoenas for hearings.
      (5)   The county shall have the burden of proving the dog is potentially
dangerous by a preponderance of the evidence. The owner may be represented by
private legal counsel of the owner’s choosing, although the owner does not have
the right to an attorney at public expense. The Animal Control Authority may be
represented by the Office of the Carver County Attorney.
      (6)   The Hearing Officer shall make a final decision within seven days
of the hearing. After considering all evidence pertaining to the dog, the
Hearing Officer shall issue a written order which rejects or upholds the
determination. If the Hearing Officer upholds the determination as potentially
dangerous, the order may affirm or modify the conditions recommended by the
Animal Control Authority. If, as a result of testimony or other evidence at the
hearing, there are grounds for declaring the dog to be a dangerous dog pursuant
to §
92.08(A) of this chapter, the Hearing Officer may change the designation and
issue the appropriate orders. The petitioner shall pay the Hearing Officer’s
fees, unless the county’s designation is set aside.
      (7)   The decision of the Hearing Officer is a quasi-judicial
determination that is subject to review by writ of certiorari to the Minnesota
Court of Appeals.
      (8)   Except to the extent that a court or Hearing Officer finds that the
seizure or impoundment was not substantially justified by law, the owner or
person claiming an interest in the dog is liable for all actual costs of care,
keeping, and disposal of the dog. The costs must be paid in full, or a mutually
satisfactory arrangement for payment must be made between the county and the
person claiming an interest in the dog, before the dog is returned to the
person. If the owner or person claiming an interest in the dog does not pay the
costs in full or enter into a payment schedule, the owner or person claiming an
interest in the dog shall forfeit all rights and interests in the dog.
      (9)   The Animal Control Authority, or Hearing Officer, may, upon the
written request of the owner, review the status of a dog which has been
determined to be potentially dangerous if a period of two years has passed
without any further incidents or violations of this chapter and may use
discretion in determining whether any conditions which have been ordered are
still required. If the review is conducted by the Hearing Officer, the burden
of proof shall be upon the dog’s owner, and the standard of proof shall be by
clear and convincing evidence. The owner must provide evidence that the dog’s
behavior has changed due to the dog’s age, neutering, environment, completion
of obedience training that includes modification of aggressive behavior, or
other factors. This designation may be reviewed again no sooner than one year
following the Hearing Officer’s most recent order regarding the designation of
the dog as dangerous. An administrative hearing fee shall be required prior to
such a review. In the event that the potentially dangerous dog designation is
upheld by the Hearing Officer, all actual expenses of the hearing will be the
responsibility of the dog’s owner.
      (10)   If the Hearing Officer confirms the potentially dangerous dog
designation, the owner or custodian of the dog shall complete the potentially
dangerous dog registration form and file it with the Carver County Sheriff with
evidence as set forth in §
92.07(D)(1) through (7) of this chapter within 14 days of the final decision.
   (D)   Potentially dangerous dog requirements.
      (1)   Any dog determined to be potentially dangerous shall be
microchipped in accordance with §
92.09.
      (2)   The owner of a dog may be required to complete an approved dog
obedience class within a designated period of time and provide proof of
completion to the Animal Control Authority.
      (3)   The dog may be required to be kept in a proper enclosure, or
restrained by chain or leash not to exceed six feet in length, and/or muzzled,
and under the control of a responsible person 18 years of age or older at all
times it is outdoors and not inside a proper enclosure.
      (4)   The owner may be required to post the property where the dog
resides with a warning symbol that children can understand, containing a
written notice and warning that a potentially dangerous dog is present on the
property. Such signs shall conform to the requirements set forth in M.S. §
347.51, subd. 2(a) and §
92.08(L)(4).
      (5)   The owner may be required to show proof of up-to-date rabies
vaccination and, if required, licensing.
      (6)   The dog may be required to wear, at all times, a tag or marker
identifying it as a potentially dangerous dog.
      (7)   The dog may be required to be sterilized within 30 days of the
owner receiving notice.
(Ord. 69-2010, passed 8-10-10) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 DESIGNATION OF A DANGEROUS DOG.
   (A)   Designation. Following the investigation of a dog attack incident, the
Animal Control Authority shall review all reports. Following that review, the
Animal Control Authority shall designate any dog dangerous if a preponderance
of evidence exists that the dog acted in a manner described in §
92.06.
   (B)   Impound. The Animal Control Authority may impound, at the animal
owner’s expense, any dog determined to pose a threat to public safety pending a
final dangerous dog designation order. The Animal Control Authority shall
quarantine, at the animal owner’s expense, any dog without proof of current
rabies vaccination upon receiving evidence that the dog has bitten any person
or domestic animal. Any person who fails or refuses to release a dog to the
Animal Control Authority or law enforcement agent upon demand, or after it has
been found by a Hearing Officer to be dangerous and ordered into custody, at
any time in the investigation, review or requirement stages as described in any
part of this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Notice.
      (1)   Upon a designation that a dog is dangerous, the Animal Control
Authority shall provide a written notice of dangerous dog to the owner of
record or, if none, to any owner of such dog by personally serving the owner or
a person of suitable age and discretion at the residence of such owner. Service
upon any owner shall be effective as to all owners. The notice shall state the
dates, times, places, and facts of the incidents which form the basis for the
determination and include the following:
         (a)   A description of the dog deemed to be dangerous;
         (b)   The factual basis for that determination; and
         (c)   The identity of the official who made the determination.
      (2)   The notice shall also set forth the registration requirements and
other restrictions imposed upon a dangerous dog under this chapter or M.S.
Chapter 347.
      (3)   The notice shall also advise the owner(s) that they have five days
to appeal the determination by requesting a hearing before the Hearing Officer
and shall include a pre-printed form which the owner can use to request a
hearing. The request for a hearing shall be made directly to the Animal Control
Authority and Office of the Carver County Attorney and must be submitted in
writing.
      (4)   If the owner does not request a hearing within the allotted ten
days, the designation of dangerous dog as issued in the written notice of
dangerous dog will stand, and the owner will be subject to all restrictions and
requirements as set forth in the notice by the Animal Control Authority.
   (D)   Appeal of dangerous dog designation.
      (1)   Within five days after receiving notice of a dangerous dog
designation, the owner or custodian of the dog may request a hearing to contest
the designation. The request for a hearing shall be made in writing on a form
provided by the Animal Control Authority.
      (2)   Except as otherwise described in this section, the hearing shall be
conducted pursuant to the requirements of §
92.07(C) of this chapter.
      (3)   Pending a hearing, the dog may be seized and held by the Animal
Control Authority at a place of the Animal Control Authority’s designation
unless the owner shows proof that the dog is properly licensed, if required;
has met the requirement for rabies vaccinations; keeps the dog only in a proper
enclosure unless restrained on a leash with a muzzle; and otherwise
demonstrates to the Animal Control Authority that the dog, under its present
circumstances, does not present an unreasonable risk of harm to persons or
other domestic animals.
      (4)   After considering all evidence pertaining to the dog, the Hearing
Officer shall make such order(s) as the Hearing Officer deems proper including
ordering the Animal Control Authority to take the dog into custody if the dog
is not currently in custody.
   (E)   Authority to order destruction. The Hearing Officer, upon finding that
a dog is dangerous hereunder, is authorized to order, as part of the
disposition of the case, that the dog be destroyed based on a written order
containing findings of fact establishing that each of the following criteria
are present:
      (1)   The dog is dangerous as demonstrated by a vicious attack, an
unprovoked attack, an attack without warning, or multiple attacks;
      (2)   The owner of the dog has demonstrated an inability or unwillingness
to sufficiently control the dog in order to prevent injury to persons or other
animals; and
      (3)   The owner cannot, will not, does not, or otherwise refuses to
provide proof of the liability insurance for the dog as required by §
92.08(G)(3)(c).
   (F)   Cost. The owner or person claiming an interest in the dog is liable
for all actual costs of care, keeping, and disposal of the dog, except to the
extent that a court or Hearing Officer finds that the seizure or impoundment
was not substantially justified by law. The costs must be paid in full, or a
mutually satisfactory arrangement for payment must be made between the county
and the person claiming an interest in the dog, before the dog is returned to
the person.
   (G)   Dangerous dog registration.
      (1)   Requirements. For any dog determined or declared to be dangerous by
operation of this chapter, state statute, court order, ordinance, or regulation
from another jurisdiction, or valid declaration from an Animal Control
Authority, the dog shall, at all times during the dog’s life, be registered as
a dangerous dog pursuant to this chapter or state law.
      (2)   Registration. No person may own or possess a dangerous dog in this
county unless the dog is registered as provided in this chapter or applicable
state law. All dogs deemed dangerous by the Animal Control Authority or Hearing
Officer, as applicable, shall be registered as a dangerous dog with the Animal
Control Authority within 30 days after the date the dog was so deemed.
      (3)   Registration requirements. The Animal Control Authority shall issue
a certificate of registration to the owner of a dangerous dog only if the owner
presents sufficient evidence that all of the following are met:
         (a)   The owner provides and maintains a proper enclosure for the
dangerous dog, as defined in §
92.06;
         (b)   The owner posts clearly visible warning symbol, understandable
to children, that there is a dangerous dog on the property. These warning signs
must be posted on the front and the rear of all buildings on the property and
upon the proper enclosure for the dog. The warning symbol must meet the
requirements set forth in M.S. § 347.51, subd. 2(a) and §
92.08(L)(4);
         (c)   The owner provides, and annually shows proof of, public
liability insurance pre-paid in full in the minimum amount of $500,000 per
person and $1,000,000 per incident, payable to any person or persons injured by
the dangerous dog or a policy of liability insurance issued by an insurance
company authorized to conduct business in this state in the amount of at least
$500,000 per person and $1,000,000 per incident insuring the owner for any
personal injuries inflicted by the dangerous dog;
         (d)   The owner pays the annual registration fee set by the Board;
         (e)   An identification microchip was implanted in the dog as required
under M.S. § 347.515 and §
92.09;
         (f)   The owner provides proof that all applicable dog licensing
requirements are met;
         (g)   The owner provides proof that the dog is current on all commonly
required vaccines;
         (h)   The dog must be sterilized. If proof of the sterilization is not
delivered to the Animal Control Authority, within 30 days of the designation of
a dog as dangerous, the Animal Control Authority shall seize the dog and have
it sterilized at the owner’s expense. If the owner does not surrender the dog
after the 30-day period expires, then the Animal Control Authority may seize
the dog pursuant to §
92.08(B).
         (i)   An owner of a dangerous dog shall renew the registration of the
dog annually until the dog is deceased.
   (H)   Release. If a dangerous dog was impounded by the Animal Control
Authority or upon order of a Hearing Officer, the dog shall not be released
until the owner demonstrates to the Animal Control Authority that all
applicable requirements of this chapter, including all registration
requirements imposed by this section or applicable state law, have been
complied with. The owner shall have a maximum of 30 days to comply with all
requirements. The owner shall be responsible for all costs incurred in the
seizure and boarding of the dog, prior or the dog’s return.
   (I)   Revocation.
      (1)   Any certificate of registration for a dangerous dog may be revoked,
if the owner fails to maintain compliance with any registration requirement or
fails to keep or maintain the dangerous dog as required by any provision of
this chapter or applicable state law. The provisions of §§
92.10 and
92.11, applicable to the seizure and disposition of dogs, shall apply.
      (2)   The Animal Control Authority shall serve upon the owner a written
notice setting forth the alleged reasons how the dog is not being kept in
conformance with this chapter and shall also notify the owner of the date,
time, and location of the hearing. Any hearing to revoke a certificate of
registration shall be held before a Hearing Officer within 20 days of the date
of the notice, and shall comply with all the requirements as set forth in §
92.07(B). The Hearing Officer may allow the hearing date to be extended beyond
the 20-day period for good cause.
      (3)   If a dangerous dog certificate of registration is revoked following
the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall order the dog disposed of immediately
or, in the alternative, permit the owner a reasonable time period, not to
exceed 30 days, to obtain the dog if the owner is in compliance with all
registration requirements.
   (J)   Death or relocation of dangerous dog. An owner of a dangerous dog
shall notify the Animal Control Authority, in writing, of the death of the dog,
or if the dog relocates or transfers out of the County to a new location or new
jurisdiction, within 30 days of the death or relocation. An owner shall, if
instructed by the Animal Control Authority, execute an affidavit, under oath
and penalty of perjury, setting forth either the circumstances of the dog’s
death and disposition; or the complete name, address, and telephone number of
the person to whom the dog was transferred.
   (K)   Sale or transfer of dangerous dogs. A person who sells or otherwise
transfers ownership or control of a dangerous dog must notify any potential
purchaser or transferee, prior to the consummation of the transaction that the
dog was previously designated as dangerous. The seller must also notify the
Animal Control Authority, in writing, of the sale and provide the Animal
Control Authority with the new owner’s name, address, and telephone number.
   (L)   Dangerous dog requirements.
      (1)   Requirements. For any dog determined or declared to be dangerous by
operation of this chapter, state statute, court order, ordinance or regulation
from another jurisdiction, or valid declaration from an Animal Control
Authority, the dog shall, at all times during the dog’s life, be registered as
a dangerous dog pursuant to this chapter or state law.
      (2)   Restraint. An owner of a dangerous dog shall, at all times, keep
the dog, while on the owner’s property, in a proper enclosure as defined by §
92.06. If for any reason and at any time a dangerous dog is not in a proper
enclosure the dangerous dog must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial
chain or leash not to exceed six feet in length and under the physical
restraint of a responsible person 18 years of age or older. The muzzle, chain,
and leash must all be of such a design, manufacture, and maintained in a
condition that will prevent the dog from biting any person or animal, but that
will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration.
      (3)   Leased property. A person who owns a dangerous or potentially
dangerous dog and who rents property from another where the dog will reside
shall disclose to the property owner prior to when the dog begins to reside on
the property, or prior to entering the lease agreement, and at the time of any
lease renewal, that the person owns a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog
that will reside at the property.
      (4)   Warning symbol. If the county issues a certificate of registration
to the owner of a dangerous dog pursuant to this chapter, the county must
provide, for posting on the owner’s property, an adequate number of warning
symbols to inform all persons, including children, that there is a dangerous
dog on the property. The design of the warning symbol must be uniform with any
specifications for such a sign as issued by the Minnesota Commissioner of
Public Safety, if any, and shall otherwise be obtained by the county from the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The county will charge the owner a reasonable
fee to cover its administrative costs and the cost of the warning symbol.
      (5)   Tag. A dangerous dog registered under this section shall have a
standardized, easily identifiable tag identifying the dog as dangerous and
containing the uniform dangerous dog symbol, as developed by the Commissioner
of Public Safety or the Animal Control Authority, affixed to the dog’s collar
at all times.
      (6)   Property inspection. The owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the
Animal Control Authority and/or law enforcement to enter the property where a
dangerous dog is kept or located, at all hours reasonable under the
circumstances, without a warrant or other advance judicial process, to inspect
the premises so as to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
applicable state statutes, order from a Hearing Officer, or directive from the
Animal Control Authority. The failure of an owner to permit such inspection is,
by itself, a ground to immediately seize the dog pursuant to §
92.10 and revoke the dangerous dog registration pursuant to division (I) of
this section.
      (7)   Violation. The Animal Control Authority shall immediately seize a
dangerous dog if requirements imposed by this chapter are not followed. The
owner or custodian may reclaim the dog upon payment of impounding and boarding
fees and upon presenting proof to the Animal Control Authority that the
requirements of M.S. §§ 347.51 and 347.52 have been met. A dangerous dog not
reclaimed under this section within 14 days may be disposed of as provided by
law, and the owner is liable to the Animal Control Authority for costs incurred
in confining and disposing of the dog.
      (8)   Review of conditions. If, in reviewing the conditions for keeping a
dangerous dog, there have been no ordinance violations for a period of two
years, the Animal Control Authority or Hearing Officer may use discretion in
determining whether the conditions set forth above are still required.
      (9)   Review of designation. The Animal Control Authority or Hearing
Officer may, upon the written request of the owner, review the status of a dog
which has been determined to be dangerous if a period of two years has passed
without any further incidents or violations of this chapter and may use
discretion in determining whether any conditions which have been ordered are
still required. If the review is conducted by the Hearing Officer, the burden
of proof shall be upon the dog’s owner and the standard of proof shall be by
clear and convincing evidence. The owner must provide evidence that the dog’s
behavior has changed due to the dog’s age, neutering, environment, completion
of obedience training that includes modification of aggressive behavior, or
other factors. This designation may be reviewed again no sooner than one year
following the Hearing Officer’s most recent order regarding the designation of
the dog as dangerous. An administrative hearing fee shall be required prior to
such a review. In the event that the dangerous dog designation is upheld by the
Hearing Officer, all actual expenses of the hearing will be the responsibility
of the dog’s owner.
(Ord. 69-2010, passed 8-10-10) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 MICROCHIP IDENTIFICATION.
   It shall be the responsibility of each owner of any dog kept or harbored
within the county and determined to be a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog
under this chapter, court order, state statute, designation from the Animal
Control Authority, or a substantially similar ordinance from another
jurisdiction to ensure that a microchip is implanted in the dog for
identification. The name of the microchip manufacturer and identification
number of the microchip must be provided to the Animal Control Authority. If
the microchip is not implanted by the owner, the Animal Control Authority may
seize the dog to have a microchip implanted by a qualified veterinarian, clinic
or shelter staff. In either case, all costs related to purchase and
implantation of the microchip must be borne by the dog’s owner.
(Ord. 69-2010, passed 8-10-10) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.10 CONFISCATION.
   (A)   Seizure. The Animal Control Authority shall immediately seize any
dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog if:
      (1)   After 30 days after the owner has notice that the dog is dangerous
or potentially dangerous, the dog is not validly registered under this chapter
or applicable state law;
      (2)   After 30 days after the owner has notice that the dog is dangerous,
the owner does not secure the proper liability insurance or surety coverage as
required under this chapter;
      (3)   The dog is not maintained in a proper enclosure as defined in §
92.06;
      (4)   The dog is outside the proper enclosure and not under the proper
physical restraint of a responsible person as required under this chapter or
any applicable state law;
      (5)   The owner is served with written notice, by certified mail to the
owner’s last known address, that the owner is in violation of any of the
requirements of this chapter or any applicable state statute, or is in
violation of any directive issued by the Animal Control Authority or order from
a Hearing Officer, and within 30 days of service of such written notice, has
refused or failed to achieve satisfactory compliance;
      (6)   The Animal Control Authority has reason to believe that the dog is
a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog and is kept or maintained under
conditions or circumstances creating an unacceptable risk of harm to physical
persons or other domesticated animals; or
      (7)   For any other reason authorized by law.
   (B)   Additional dogs subject to seizure.
      (1)   Any dog found to be in circumstances, which, to a reasonable
person, indicate that the dog has been or will be used, trained, or encouraged
to fight with another animal, or any animal whose owner has in custody or
possession any training apparatus, paraphernalia, or drugs used to prepare such
dog to be fought with another animal is hereby declared to be a public nuisance
and shall be immediately seized and held.
      (2)   Any dog may be seized and held to determine if rabid.
      (3)   Any dog which meets the definitions of dangerous dog or potentially
dangerous dog found in §
92.06 may be seized and held by the Animal Control Authority at a place
designated by the Animal Control Authority pending a determination whether the
animal is dangerous or potentially dangerous.
   (C)   Reclaiming dogs. A dog seized under this chapter may be released to
the owner upon payment of impounding and boarding fees and upon presenting
proof to the Animal Control Authority that all requirements of this chapter and
state law have or will be met. A dog not reclaimed under this subdivision
within five days may be disposed of as provided under M.S. § 35.71, subd. 3,
and the owner is liable to the Animal Control Authority for costs incurred in
confining and disposing of the dog.
   (D)   Subsequent offenses. If a person has been convicted of a misdemeanor
for violating a provision of this chapter and the person is charged with a
subsequent violation relating to the same dog, the dog shall be seized by the
Animal Control Authority. If the owner is convicted of the crime for which the
dog was seized, the court shall order the dog be destroyed in a proper and
humane manner and order the owner to pay the cost of confining and destroying
the dog. If the person is not convicted of the crime for which the dog was
seized, the owner may reclaim the dog upon payment to the Animal Control
Authority of a fee for the care and boarding of the dog. If the dog is not
reclaimed by the owner within 30 days after the owner has been notified that
the dog may be reclaimed, the dog may be disposed of as provided under M.S. §
35.71, subd. 3. The owner is liable to the Animal Control Authority for the
costs incurred in confining, impounding, and disposing of the dog.
(Ord. 69-2010, passed 8-10-10) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.11 DESTRUCTION OF DOGS.
   (A)   Upon infliction of death or bodily harm. A dog that, when unprovoked,
inflicted death or substantial or great bodily harm on a human being on public
or private property, or when unprovoked, bit multiple human victims on public
or private property in the same attack may be destroyed in a proper and humane
manner by the Animal Control Authority. The Animal Control Authority may not
destroy the dog until the dog owner is provided the opportunity for a hearing
before a Hearing Officer, as set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Suffering beyond cure. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
chapter, any dog taken into custody may be immediately disposed of when the dog
is suffering and is beyond cure through reasonable care and treatment, upon a
proper determination by a licensed doctor of veterinary medicine. The county
shall recover from the dog’s owner all costs incurred under this section.
   (C)   Unclaimed dogs. At the expiration of the time a dog is impounded as
provided for in this chapter, if the dog has not been reclaimed in accordance
with the provisions hereof, it shall be the duty of the Animal Control
Authority to cause such dog to be destroyed according to the most humane and
approved methods or otherwise disposed of pursuant to M.S. § 343.
   (D)   No appeal. If no appeal is filed, the dangerous dog designation will
stand and the animal may be destroyed. The dog owner shall pay for the cost of
the dog’s destruction pursuant to M.S. § 347.56.
(Ord. 69-2010, passed 8-10-10)
§ 92.12 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Dog ownership prohibited. Except as otherwise provided by this statute
or Minnesota law no person may own a dog if the person has:
      (1)   Been convicted of a third or subsequent violation of §
92.08(G) or (L), or §
92.09;
      (2)   Been convicted of a violation under section M.S. § 609.205, subd.
4;
      (3)   Been convicted of a gross misdemeanor under M.S. § 609.226, subd.
1;
      (4)   Been convicted of a violation under section M.S. § 609.226, subd 2;
or
      (5)   Has a dog ordered destroyed under §
92.11 and been convicted of one or more violations of §
92.08(G) or (L), §
92.09, or M.S. § 609.226, subd. 2.
   (B)   Household member. If any member of a household is prohibited from
owning a dog in division (A) of this section, unless specifically approved with
or without restriction by an Animal Control Authority, no person in the
household is permitted to own a dog.
   (C)   Dog ownership prohibition review. Beginning three years after a
conviction listed in division (A) of this section that prohibits a person from
owning a dog, and annually thereafter, the person may request that the Animal
Control Authority review the prohibition. The Animal Control Authority may
consider such facts as the seriousness of the violation or violations that led
to the prohibition, any criminal convictions, or other facts that the Animal
Control Authority deem appropriate. The Animal Control Authority may rescind
the prohibition entirely or rescind it with limitations. The Animal Control
Authority also may establish conditions a person must meet before the
prohibition is rescinded, including, but not limited to, successfully
completing dog training or dog handling courses. If the Animal Control
Authority rescinds a person’s prohibition and the person subsequently fails to
comply with any limitation imposed by the Animal Control Authority or the
person is convicted of any animal violation involving unprovoked bites or dog
attacks, the Animal Control Authority may permanently prohibit the person from
owning a dog in this county.
(Ord. 69-2010, passed 8-10-10) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.13 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section do not apply to police K-9 dogs used by
law enforcement officials for police work.
   (B)   Dogs may not be declared dangerous or potentially dangerous if the
threat, injury, or damage was sustained by a person:
      (1)   Who was committing, at the time, a willful trespass or other tort
upon the premises occupied by the owner of the dog;
      (2)   Who was provoking, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog or
who can be shown to have repeatedly, in the past, provoked, tormented, abused,
or assaulted the dog; or
      (3)   Who was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
(Ord. 69-2010, passed 8-10-10)
§ 92.14 RABIES QUARANTINE.
   (A)   Whenever any dog has bitten any person or domestic animal and the
owner or custodian does not provide proof of current rabies vaccination, the
owner or custodian of the dog, upon being notified by the Animal Control
Authority or local law enforcement, will immediately cause the dog to be
quarantined, in either a proper enclosure, as defined in §
92.06, or if the animal control officer feels it is needed, at a state licensed
veterinarian, and in a manner that is in accord with all applicable Minnesota
statutes, administrative rules, and Minnesota Department of Health guidelines,
with the Animal Control Authority, or by a veterinarian licensed to practice in
the State of Minnesota, for a period of ten days after the dog bite occurred.
   (B)   Within 24 hours of impoundment, the dog owner or custodian will have
the dog examined by a state licensed veterinarian who will observe the animal
and examine the animal if necessary to ascertain whether symptoms of rabies
exist. At the end of the ten-day quarantine period, the dog will again be
examined by a state licensed veterinarian. If the veterinarian diagnoses the
dog to be free of the signs of rabies, the dog will be released from
quarantine. If the dog becomes ill or dies during the period of quarantine, the
owner shall immediately notify the Animal Control Authority for examination by
a state licensed veterinarian. If the veterinarian determines that the dog has
rabies, the dog shall immediately be euthanized in a humane manner. Upon the
death of the dog, its head will be sent to the State Department of Health, the
University of Minnesota, or another appropriate agency as designated by the
State of Minnesota for examination for rabies.
(Ord. 69-2010, passed 8-10-10)
§ 92.15 COST.
   The owner is responsible for the cost of seizures, impoundment, quarantine,
examination by a veterinarian, veterinarian services, and disposal of the dog
or any other cost incurred as a result of enforcement of this chapter, unless
otherwise specified herein.
(Ord. 69-2010, passed 8-10-10)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The owner of a dog declared dangerous or potentially dangerous who
fails to comply with the requirements of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor with penalties as provided under Minnesota law.
   (B)   It is a misdemeanor to remove a microchip from a dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog; to fail to renew the registration of a dangerous
dog; to fail to account for a dangerous dog’s death, transfer of ownership, or
removal from the jurisdiction; to sign a false affidavit with respect to a
dangerous dog’s death, transfer of ownership, or removal from the jurisdiction;
or to fail to disclose ownership of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog to
a property owner from whom the person rents property.
(Ord. 69-2010, passed 8-10-10)
CHAPTER 93: PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
93.01   Findings, purpose, and intent
   
93.02   Election to manage the public rights-of-way
   
93.03   Definitions
   
93.04   Administration
   
93.05   Utility Coordination Committee
   
93.06   Registration and right-of-way occupancy
   
93.07   Registration information
   
93.08   Reporting obligations
   
93.09   Permit requirement
   
93.10   Permit applications
   
93.11   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
93.12   Action on small wireless permit applications
   
93.13   Permit fees
   
93.14   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
93.15   Joint applications
   
93.16   Supplementary applications
   
93.17   Other obligations
   
93.18   Denial of permit
   
93.19   Installation requirements
   
93.20   Inspection
   
93.21   Work done without a permit
   
93.22   Supplementary notification
   
93.23   Revocation of permits
   
93.24   Mapping data
   
93.25   Location and relocation of facilities
   
93.26   Location of facilities during design process
   
93.27   Damage to other facilities
   
93.28   Right-of-way vacation
   
93.29   Indemnification and liability   
   
93.30   Abandoned and unused facilities
   
93.31   Appeal
   
93.32   Reservation of regulatory police power
   
93.33   Severability and franchise requirements
§ 93.01 FINDINGS, PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   To provide for the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens, and to
ensure the integrity of its highways and the appropriate use of the public
rights-of-way, the county strives to keep its rights- of-way in a state of good
repair and free from unnecessary encumbrances.
   (B)   Accordingly, the county hereby enacts this chapter of this code
relating to right-of-way permits and administration. This chapter imposes
reasonable regulation on the placement and maintenance of facilities and
equipment currently within its rights-of-way, or to be placed therein at some
future time. This chapter is intended to complement the regulatory roles of
federal and state agencies. Under this chapter, persons excavating and
obstructing the public rights-of-way will bear financial responsibility for
their work. Finally, this chapter provides for recovery of out-of-pocket and
projected costs from persons using the public rights-of-way.
   (C)   This chapter shall be interpreted consistently with 1997 Session Laws,
Chapter 123, substantially codified in M.S. §§ 237.16, 237.162, 237.163,
237.79, 237.81, and 238.086 (the "Act") and the other laws governing applicable
rights of the county and users of the rights-of-way. This chapter shall also be
interpreted consistent with Minn. Rules Parts 7819.0050 to 7819.9950 where
possible. To the extent any provision of this chapter cannot be interpreted
consistently with the Minnesota Rules, that interpretation most consistent with
the Act and other applicable statutory and case law is intended. This chapter
shall not be interpreted to limit the regulatory and police powers of the
county to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.02 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
    Pursuant to the authority granted to the county under state and federal
statutory, administrative, and common law, the county hereby elects pursuant
M.S. § 237.163, subd. 2(b), to manage the public rights-of-way under its
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.03 DEFINITIONS.
    The following definitions apply in this chapter of this code. References
hereafter to ''sections" are, unless otherwise specified, references to
sections in this chapter. Defined terms remain defined terms, whether or not
capitalized.
   ABANDONED FACILITY. A FACILITY no longer in service or physically
disconnected from a portion of the operating FACILITY, or from any other
FACILITY, that is in use or still carries SERVICE. A FACILITY is not abandoned
unless declared so by the RIGHT-OF-WAY USER.
   ACCESS. Any physical connection to public or private property over right-of-
way for residential, agricultural, commercial, or municipal highway purposes.
   ACCESS PERMIT. The PERMIT which must be obtained from the COUNTY before any
PERSON may make a physical connection to a COUNTY road or highway.
   APPLICANT. Any PERSON requesting permission to EXCAVATE or OBSTRUCT a right-
of-way.
   CHAPTER. This Chapter 93.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace a SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY on, under, within, or adjacent to an existing
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE or UTILITY POLE that is owned privately or by the
COUNTY or other governmental unit.
   COMMISSION. The Minnesota Public Utilities Commission.
   CONGESTED RIGHT-OF-WAY. A crowded condition in the subsurface of the PUBLIC
RIGHT-OF-WAY that occurs when the maximum lateral spacing between existing
underground FACILITIES does not allow for CONSTRUCTION of new underground
FACILITIES without using hand digging to expose the existing lateral FACILITIES
in conformance with M.S. § 216D.04, subd. 3, over a continuous length in excess
of 500 feet.
   CONSTRUCTION. The general PERMIT requirements established by the DIRECTOR
for performance, materials, and workmanship in accordance with applicable
design standards, consistent with the Transportation Plan, for the permitted
work or FACILITY to preserve public health, safety, and welfare, and right-of-
way aesthetics and flexibility.
   CONSTRUCTION PERFORMANCE BOND.
      (1)   Any of the following forms of security provided at PERMITTEE'S
option, in an amount that shall cover costs to reasonably RESTORE the right-of-
way to the condition that existed before the excavation and costs that the
COUNTY estimates will be incurred if the RIGHT-OF-WAY USER fails to perform
under the bond:
         (a)   Individual project bond;
         (b)   Cash deposit;
         (c)   Security of a form listed or approved under M.S. § 15.73, subd.
3;
         (d)   Letter of credit, in a form acceptable to the COUNTY;
         (e)   Self-insurance, in a form acceptable to the COUNTY; or
         (f)   A blanket bond for projects within the COUNTY, or other form of
CONSTRUCTION BOND, for a time specified and in a form acceptable to the COUNTY.
      (2)   The amount of the bond does not include the indirect costs of
litigation and attorney fees.
   COUNTY. The County of Carver, Minnesota. For purposes of §
93.29, COUNTY means its elected officials, officers, employees, and agents.
   DEGRADATION. A decrease in the useful life of the right-of-way caused by
excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct such right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
or disturbance did not occur.
   DEGRADATION COST. Subject to Minn. Rules Part 7819.1100, the cost to achieve
a level of RESTORATION, as determined by the COUNTY at the time the PERMIT is
issued, not to exceed the maximum RESTORATION shown in Plates 1 to 13, set
forth in Minn. Rules Parts 7819.9900 to 7819.9950.
   DEGRADATION FEE. The estimated fee established at the time of permitting by
the COUNTY to recover costs associated with the decrease in the useful life of
the right-of-way caused by the excavation, and which equals the DEGRADATION
COST.
   DELAY PENALTY. The penalty imposed as a result of unreasonable delays in
right-of-way excavation, obstruction, PATCHING, or RESTORATION as established
by PERMIT.
   DEPARTMENT. The Carver County Division of Public Works.
   DEPARTMENT INSPECTOR. Any PERSON authorized by the COUNTY to carry out
inspections related to the provisions of this chapter.
   DIRECTOR. The DIRECTOR of the DEPARTMENT or her or his designee.
   EMERGENCY. A condition that:
      (1)   Poses a danger to life or public health or of a significant loss of
property; or
      (2)   Requires immediate repair or replacement of FACILITIES in order to
RESTORE SERVICE to a customer.
   EQUIPMENT. Any tangible asset used to install, repair, or maintain
FACILITIES in any right-of-way.
   EXCAVATE. To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or
penetrate any part of a PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT. The PERMIT which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a PERSON may EXCAVATE in a right-of-way. An EXCAVATION PERMIT
allows the holder to EXCAVATE that part of the right-of-way described in such
PERMIT. The DIRECTOR will prescribe the appropriate PERMIT forms to be filed
for the work type proposed to be undertaken by the REGISTRANT.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the county by an APPLICANT to cover the
costs as provided in §
93.13.
   FACILITY or FACILITIES. Any tangible asset in the right-of-way required to
provide UTILITY SERVICE which includes, without limitation, any pipes, conduit,
wires, cables, amplifiers, transformers, fiber optic lines, antennae, poles,
ducts, fixtures and appurtenances, and other like EQUIPMENT used in connection
with transmitting, receiving, distributing, offering, and providing broadband,
utility, and other SERVICES, and including SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   FIVE-YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the COUNTY for
CONSTRUCTION within the next five years.
   HIGH DENSITY CORRIDOR. A designated portion of the PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
within which TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY USERS having multiple and
competing FACILITIES may be required to build and install FACILITIES in a
common conduit system or other common structure.
   HOLE. An excavation in the PAVEMENT, with the excavation having a length
less than the width of the PAVEMENT.
   INCREMENTAL COST. The additional cost only of upsizing additional materials
(conduit, vaults, location tape, building materials) with no additional costs
allowed for the labor (incremental engineering, incremental design, placement
and assembly of incremental conduit, placement of incremental vaults,
interconnection, testing, and documentation). INCREMENTAL COST does not include
roadway or sidewalk RESTORATION or paving beyond that which is specifically
required for the placement of additional vaults within paved or concrete
surfaces outside of the original project scope.
   LANDSCAPING. Vegetative plantings, gardens, in-ground sprinkler systems,
small field drains, and related features.
   LANDSCAPING PERMIT. A PERMIT issued by the county authorizing the PERMITTEE
to landscape or make LANDSCAPING improvements within the COUNTY right-of-way as
specifically described in the PERMIT.
   LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE. A local PERSON or PERSONS, or designee of such PERSON
or PERSONS, authorized by a REGISTRANT to accept legal notice or service;
accept communications; and make decisions for that REGISTRANT regarding all
matters within the scope of this chapter.
   MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The authority to do activities, including,
but not limited to, any or all of the following activities:
      (1)   Require registration;
      (2)   Require CONSTRUCTION PERFORMANCE BONDS and insurance coverage;
      (3)   Establish installation and CONSTRUCTION standards;
      (4)   Establish and define location and relocation requirements for
EQUIPMENT and FACILITIES;
      (5)   Establish coordination and timing requirements;
      (6)   Require TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY USERS to submit, henceforth
required by the COUNTY, project data reasonably necessary to allow the COUNTY
to develop a right-of-way mapping system including GIS system information;
      (7)   Require TELECOMMUNICATION RIGHT-OF-WAY USERS to submit, upon
request of the COUNTY, existing data on the location of the user's FACILITIES
occupying the PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY within the COUNTY. The data may be submitted
in the form maintained by the user in a reasonable time after receipt of the
request based on the amount of data requested;
      (8)   Establish right-of-way permitting requirements for excavation and
obstruction;
      (9)   Establish removal requirements for abandoned EQUIPMENT or
FACILITIES, if required in conjunction with other right-of-way repair,
excavation, or CONSTRUCTION; and
      (10)   Impose reasonable penalties for unreasonable delays in
CONSTRUCTION.
   MANAGEMENT COSTS. The actual costs the COUNTY incurs in managing its PUBLIC
RIGHTS-OF-WAY, including such costs, if incurred, as those associated with
registering APPLICANTS; issuing, processing, and verifying RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT
applications; inspecting job sites and RESTORATION projects; maintaining,
supporting, protecting, or moving user FACILITIES during PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
work; determining the adequacy of right-of-way RESTORATION; restoring work
inadequately performed after providing notice and the opportunity to correct
the work; and revoking RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMITS. MANAGEMENT COSTS do not include
payment by a TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY USER for the use of the right- of-
way; unreasonable fees including fees tied to or based on customer counts,
access lines, or revenues generated by the right-of-way or for the COUNTY; the
fees and cost of litigation relating to the interpretation of Minnesota Session
Laws 1997, Chapter 123; M.S. §§ 237.162 or 237.163; or any ordinance enacted
under those sections; or the COUNTY fees and costs related to appeals taken
pursuant to § 93.31 of this chapter.
   MAPPING INFORMATION. The information required in §
93.24(A).
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY that is no larger than 24
inches long, 15 inches wide, and 12 inches high, and whose exterior antenna, if
any, is no longer than 11 inches.
   OBSTRUCT. To place any tangible object in a PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY so as to
hinder free and open passage over that or any part of the right-of-way.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT. The PERMIT which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a PERSON may OBSTRUCT any part of a right-of-way, allowing the
holder to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of that
right-of-way by placing any tangible object thereon for the duration specified
therein. The DIRECTOR will prescribe the appropriate PERMIT forms to be filed
for the work type proposed to be undertaken by the REGISTRANT. Obstructions
include, but are not limited to, activities including special events, UTILITY
SERVICE day to day operations, maintenance activities, tree trimming, and other
miscellaneous activity in the PUBLIC RIGHT-OF- WAY.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the COUNTY by a PERMITTEE to cover the
costs as provided in §
93.13 and required to obtain the PERMIT.
   PATCH or PATCHING. 
      (1)   A method of PAVEMENT replacement that is temporary in nature. A
PATCH consists of:
         (a)   The compaction of the subbase and aggregate base; and
         (b)   The replacement, in kind, of the existing PAVEMENT for a minimum
of two feet beyond the edges of the excavation in all directions.
      (2)   A PATCH is considered full RESTORATION only when the PAVEMENT is
included in the county's FIVE-YEAR PROJECT PLAN.
   PAVEMENT. Any type of improved surface that is within the PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-
WAY and that is paved or otherwise constructed with bituminous, concrete,
aggregate, or gravel.
   PERMIT. The same meaning given in RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT in M.S. § 237.162, and
includes, but is not limited to, the various PERMITS defined in this chapter:
      (1)   UTILITY PERMIT;
      (2)   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT;
      (3)   Moving transportation PERMIT;
      (4)   ACCESS PERMIT, including residential or field and street or
commercial;
      (5)   Excavation or grading PERMIT;
      (6)   Special event PERMIT; and
      (7)   LANDSCAPING PERMITS.
   PERMITTEE. Any PERSON to whom a PERMIT to EXCAVATE or OBSTRUCT a right-of-
way has been granted by the COUNTY under this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of this state,
however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or foreign,
whether for profit or nonprofit, and whether natural, corporate, or political,
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   A business or commercial enterprise, however organized;
      (2)   A social charitable organization; and
      (3)   Any type or combination of political subdivision of a state or
local government.
   PROBATION. The status of a PERSON that has not complied with the conditions
of this chapter.
   PROBATIONARY PERIOD. One year from the date that a PERSON has been notified
in writing that they have been put on PROBATION.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, cartway, bicycle lane, or public sidewalk in which the COUNTY has an
interest, including other dedicated rights-of-way for travel purposes and
utility easements of the COUNTY. A PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include the
airwaves above a right-of-way with regard to cellular or other nonwire
telecommunications or broadcast SERVICE. The lands described by an easement,
deed, dedication, title, law or occupation of a road, highway, street, cartway,
bicycle lane, or sidewalk are included as PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   REGISTRANT. Any PERSON who:
      (1)   Has or seeks to have its EQUIPMENT or FACILITIES located within any
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY; or
      (2)   In any way, occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or use, the PUBLIC
RIGHT- OF-WAY or place its FACILITIES or EQUIPMENT in the PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   REGISTRATION FEE. Money paid to the COUNTY by a REGISTRANT for obtaining and
reviewing REGISTRANT information.
   RESTORATION COST. The amount of money paid to the COUNTY by a PERMITTEE to
achieve the level of RESTORATION according to Plates 1 to 13 of Minnesota
Public Utilities Commission Rules.
   RESTORE OR RESTORATION. The process by which an excavated PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-
WAY and surrounding area, including PAVEMENT and foundation, and turf or
vegetation, is returned to the same condition and life expectancy that existed
before excavation.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT. A PERMIT to perform work in a PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY as
required by this chapter.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT FEES. Money paid to the COUNTY by an APPLICANT to cover
the costs provided in §
93.13 associated with the issuance of any PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY USER. Either:
      (1)   A TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY USER as defined by M.S. §
237.162, subd. 4; or
      (2)   A PERSON owning or controlling a FACILITY in the right-of-way that
is used or intended to be used for providing UTILITY SERVICE, and who has a
right under law, franchise, or ordinance to use the PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY; or
      (3)   Any PERSON or entity to whom a PERMIT to use the PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-
WAY has been issued by the COUNTY.
   SERVICE or UTILITY SERVICE. Includes:
      (1)   Those SERVICES provided by a public utility as defined in M.S. §
216B.02, subds. 4 and 6;
      (2)   SERVICES of a TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY USER, including
transporting of voice or data information;
      (3)   SERVICES of a cable communications system as defined in M.S.
Chapter 238;
      (4)   Natural gas or electric energy or telecommunications SERVICES
provided by the COUNTY;
      (5)   SERVICES provided by a cooperative electric association organized
under M.S. Chapter 308A;
      (6)   Water and sewer, including SERVICE LATERALS, steam, cooling or
heating SERVICES; and
      (7)   Privately-owned UTILITY SERVICES, including drain tiles.
   SERVICE LATERAL. An underground FACILITY that is used to transmit,
distribute, or furnish gas, electricity, communications, or water from a common
source to an end-use customer. A SERVICE LATERAL is also an underground
FACILITY that is used in the removal of wastewater from a customer's premises.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. Either:
      (1)   A WIRELESS FACILITY that meets both of the following
qualifications:
         (a)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all its exposed elements could fit within an enclosure of no
more than six cubic feet; and
         (b)   All other wireless EQUIPMENT associated with the SMALL WIRELESS
FACILITY provided such EQUIPMENT is, in aggregate, no more than 28 cubic feet
in volume, not including electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, battery backup power systems, grounding
EQUIPMENT, power transfer switches, cutoff switches, cable, conduit, vertical
cable runs for the connection of power and other SERVICES, and any EQUIPMENT
concealed from public view within or behind an existing structure or
concealment; or
      (2)   A MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY.
   SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION. An application made to EXCAVATE or OBSTRUCT more
of the PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY than allowed in, or to extend, a PERMIT that had
already been issued.
   TELECOMMUNICATION RIGHT-OF-WAY USER. A PERSON owning or controlling a
FACILITY in the right-of-way, or seeking to own or control a FACILITY in the
right-of-way that is used or is intended to be used for providing WIRELESS
SERVICE, or transporting telecommunication or other voice or data information.
For purposes of this chapter, a cable communication system defined and
regulated under M.S. Chapter 238, and telecommunication activities related to
providing natural gas or electric energy SERVICES whether provided by a public
utility as defined in M.S. § 216B.02, a municipality, a municipal gas or power
agency organized under M.S. Chapters 453 and 453A, or a cooperative electric
association organized under M.S. Chapter 308A, are not TELECOMMUNICATIONS
RIGHT-OF-WAY USERS for purposes of this chapter except to the extent such
entity is offering WIRELESS SERVICE.
   TEMPORARY SURFACE. The compaction of subbase and aggregate base and
replacement, in kind, of the existing PAVEMENT only to the edges of the
excavation. It is temporary in nature except when the replacement is of
PAVEMENT included in the COUNTY'S TWO-YEAR PLAN, in which case it is considered
full RESTORATION.
   TRENCH. An excavation in the PAVEMENT, with the excavation having a length
equal to or greater than the width of the PAVEMENT.
   TWO-YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the COUNTY for CONSTRUCTION
within the next two years.
   UTILITY PERMIT. A PERMIT issued by the COUNTY authorizing the PERMITTEE to
place a SERVICE or UTILITY SERVICE, including a SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY, in the
right-of-way as specifically described in the PERMIT.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole that is used in whole or part to facilitate
telecommunications or electric SERVICE.
   WIRELESS FACILITY.  EQUIPMENT at a fixed location that enables the provision
of WIRELESS SERVICES between user EQUIPMENT and a WIRELESS SERVICE network,
including:
      (1)   EQUIPMENT associated with WIRELESS SERVICE;
      (2)   A radio transceiver, antenna, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular
and backup power supplies, and comparable EQUIPMENT, regardless of
technological configuration; and
      (3)   A SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY, but not including:
         (a)   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES; or
         (b)   WIRELESS BACKHAUL FACILITIES; or
         (c)   Coaxial or fiber-optic cables:
            1.   Between UTILITY POLES or WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES; or
            2.   That are not otherwise immediately adjacent to and directly
associated with a specific antenna.
   WIRELESS SERVICE. Any SERVICE using licensed or unlicensed wireless
spectrum, including the use of wi-fi, whether at a fixed location or by means
of a mobile device, that is provided using WIRELESS FACILITIES. WIRELESS
SERVICE does not include SERVICES regulated under Title VI of the
Communications Act of 1934, as amended, including cable SERVICE under 47 USC
522, Clause (6).
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A new or existing structure in a PUBLIC RIGHT-
OF-WAY designed to support or capable of supporting SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES,
as reasonably determined by the COUNTY.
   WIRELINE BACKHAUL FACILITY. A FACILITY used to transport communications data
by wire from a WIRELESS FACILITY to a communications network.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.04 ADMINISTRATION.
    The Director is the principal county official responsible for the
administration of the rights-of- way, right-of-way permits, and the ordinances
related thereto. The Director may delegate any or all of the duties hereunder.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.05 UTILITY COORDINATION COMMITTEE.
    The county may create an advisory Utility Coordination Committee.
Participation on the Committee is voluntary. It will be composed of any
registrants who wish to assist the county in obtaining information and, by
making recommendations regarding use of the right-of-way, in improving the
process of performing construction work therein. The county may determine the
size of such Committee and shall appoint members from a list of registrants who
have expressed a desire to assist the county.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.06 REGISTRATION AND RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Registration. Each person who occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or
use the right-of- way, or place any equipment or facilities in or on the right-
of-way, including persons with installation and maintenance responsibilities by
lease, sublease, or assignment, must register with the county. Registration
will consist of providing application information and paying a registration
fee.
   (B)   Registration prior to work. No person may construct, install, repair,
remove, relocate, or perform any other work on, or use any facilities or any
part thereof, in any right-of-way without first being registered with the
county.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Nothing herein shall be construed to repeal or amend the provisions
of a county ordinance permitting persons to plant or maintain boulevard
plantings or gardens in the area of the right-of-way between their property and
the street curb. Persons planting or maintaining boulevard plantings or gardens
shall not be deemed to use or occupy the right-of-way, and shall not be
required to obtain any permits or satisfy any other requirements for planting
or maintaining such boulevard plantings or gardens under this chapter. However,
plantings must not violate applicable clear zone requirements nor obstruct
visibility on the roadway, nor affect the drainage of the roadway watershed,
nor cause erosion in the right-of-way, and the county may remove such
plantings, if necessary for maintenance, safety, or construction purposes, with
no compensation due the property owner.
      (2)   Irrigation systems shall be allowed in the right-of-way without a
permit and installers shall be exempt from registration, provided the
irrigation systems are managed properly and do not cause erosion in the right-
of-way. There shall be no compensation for removal necessary for any permitted
utility project. No compensation shall be paid for any irrigation system if
removal is required or if it is damaged by any county or municipal activity or
by any permitted utility activity.
      (3)   Resident owned sewer and water service lines to a city main and
resident owned drain tile lines shall not be required to register, unless
requested by the county, but shall be required to obtain permits for excavation
and obstruction.
   (D)   Nothing herein relieves a person from complying with the provisions of
M.S. Chapter 216D, the Gopher State One-Call Law.
   (E)   Government agencies and non-profit organizations are exempt from
registration, but are required to obtain the appropriate right-of-way permit.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.07 REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information required. The information provided to the county at the
time of registration shall be on the form approved by the county or this
chapter, and shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Each registrant's name, Gopher State One-Call registration
certificate number, address, e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone and
facsimile numbers;
      (2)   The name, address, e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone and
facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration;
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state, or a
form of self-insurance acceptable to the county;
         (b)   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the:
            1.   Use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees, and permittees; and
            2.   Placement and use of facilities and equipment in the right-of-
way by the registrant, its officers, agents, employees, and permittees,
including, but not limited to, protection against liability arising from
completed operations, damage of underground facilities, and collapse of
property; and
         (c)   Naming the county as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable, and for whom defense
will be provided as to all such coverages; and
         (d)   Requiring that the county be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term; and
         (e)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the county in amounts sufficient to protect the county and the public and to
carry out the purposes and policies of this chapter.
      (4)   The county may require a copy of the actual insurance policies.
      (5)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate is
required to be filed under M.S. § 302A.105 as recorded and certified to by the
Secretary of State.
      (6)   A copy of the person's order granting a certificate of authority
from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other applicable state or
federal agency, where the person is lawfully required to have such certificate
from said commission or other state or federal agency.
   (B)   Notice of changes. The registrant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times by providing to the county information as to
changes within 15 days following the date on which the registrant has knowledge
of any change.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.08 REPORTING OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Operations.
      (1)   Each registrant who provides utility service shall, at the time of
registration and by March 1 of each year, file a construction and major
maintenance plan for underground facilities with the county. Such plan shall be
submitted using a format designated by the county and shall contain the
information determined by the county to be necessary to facilitate the
coordination and reduction in the frequency of excavations and obstructions of
rights-of-way. The utility facility plans shall be kept up to date by the
registrant. Facility plans which a utility identifies to the county as being
trade secret information will be treated as general nonpublic data in
accordance with M.S. § 13.37.
      (2)   The plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
         (a)   The locations and the estimated beginning and ending dates of
all projects to be commenced during the next calendar year (in this section, a
'"next-year project"); and
         (b)   To the extent known, the tentative locations and estimated
beginning and ending dates for all projects contemplated for the five years
following the next calendar year (in this section, a "five-year project").
      (3)   The term "project" in this section shall include both next-year
projects and five- year projects but does not include individual service line
hookups and minor maintenance unless they are part of an area wide program.
      (4)   By April 1 of each year, the county will have available for
inspection in the county's office a composite list of all projects of which the
county has been informed of the annual plans. All registrants are responsible
for keeping themselves informed of the current status of this list. Thereafter,
by May 1, each registrant may change any project in its list of next-year
projects, and must notify the county and all other registrants of all such
changes in said list. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a registrant may at any
time join in a next-year project of another registrant listed by the other
registrant.
   (B)   Additional next-year projects. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
county will not deny an application for a right-of-way permit for failure to
include a project in a plan submitted to the county if the registrant has used
commercially reasonable efforts to anticipate and plan for the project.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.09 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no
person may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way without first having obtained
the appropriate right-of-way permit from the county to do so.
      (1)   Specific permits.
         (a)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required by a
registrant to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such permit
and to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-
way by placing facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration
specified therein.
         (b)   Obstruction permit. An obstruction permit is required by a
registrant to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of right-
of-way by placing equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the
extent and for the duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not
required if a person already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same
project.
      (2)   A small wireless facility shall require an excavation or
obstruction permit by a registrant to erect or install a wireless support
structure, to collocate a small wireless facility, or to otherwise install a
small wireless facility in the specified portion or the right-of-way, to the
extent specified therein, provided that such permit shall remain in effect for
the length of time the facility is in use, unless lawfully revoked.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless:
      (1)   Such person makes a supplementary application for another right-of-
way permit before the expiration of the initial permit; and
      (2)   A new permit or permit extension is granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rules Part 7819.1000, subp. 3,
and notwithstanding division (B) of this section, the county shall establish
and impose a delay penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation,
obstruction, patching, or restoration. The delay penalty shall not be imposed
if the delay in project completion is due to circumstances beyond the control
of the applicant, including, without limitation, inclement weather, acts of
God, or civil strife. The delay penalty shall be established from time to time
by County Board resolution.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this chapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the county.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.10 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit is made to the Department on the form provided by
the county. Right-of-way permit applications shall contain, and will be
considered complete only upon compliance with, the requirements of the
following provisions:
   (A)   Registration with the county pursuant to this chapter;
   (B)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed facilities
of the permittee in the project area;
   (C)   Payment of money due the county for:
      (1)   Permit fees, estimated restoration costs, and other management
costs;
      (2)   Prior right-of-way or obstructions or excavation permits;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the county
because of applicant's prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way
or any emergency actions taken by the county; and
      (4)   Franchise fees or other charges, if applicable;
   (D)   Payment of disputed amounts due the county by posting security or
depositing in an escrow account an amount equal to at least 110% of the amount
owing; and
   (E)   Posting of an additional or larger construction performance bond for
additional facilities when applicant requests an excavation permit to install
additional facilities and the county deems the existing construction
performance bond inadequate under applicable standards.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.11 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, then the county shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions.
      (1)   The county may impose reasonable conditions upon the issuance of
the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to protect the
health, safety, and welfare, or, when necessary, to protect the right-of-way
and its current and future use.
      (2)   The county may require, at its discretion, that an applicant
install additional facilities at the county's incremental cost, for use by the
county and its partners. Costs associated with roadway or sidewalk restoration
or paving required for the placement of additionally requested vaults within
paved or concrete surfaces outside of the original project scope are not part
of incremental costs and are to be provided separately to the county at
reasonable cost at the same time incremental costs are provided. The Director
and the applicant shall collaboratively develop infrastructure specifications,
additional incremental cost estimates, and documentation necessary to transfer
right, title, and interest of any additional facilities to the county.
   (C)   Small wireless facility conditions. In addition to division (B), the
erection or installation of a wireless support structure, the collocation of a
small wireless facility, or other installation of a small wireless facility in
the right-of-way shall be subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   A small wireless facility shall only be collocated on the
particular wireless support structure, under those attachment specifications,
and at the height indicated in the applicable permit application.
      (2)   No new wireless support structure installed within the right-of-way
shall exceed 50 feet above ground level without the county's written
authorization, provided that the county may impose a lower height limit in the
applicable permit to protect the public health, safety, and welfare or to
protect the right-of-way and its current use, and further provided that a
registrant may replace an existing wireless support structure exceeding 50 feet
above ground level with a structure of the same height subject to such
conditions or requirements as may be imposed in the applicable permit.
      (3)   No wireless facility may extend more than ten feet above an
existing wireless support structure.
      (4)   Where an applicant proposes to install a new wireless support
structure in the right-of-way, the county may impose separation requirements
between such structure and any existing wireless support structure or other
facilities in and around the right-of-way.
      (5)   (a)   Where an applicant proposes collocation on a decorative
wireless support structure, sign, or other structure not intended to support
small wireless facilities, the county may impose reasonable requirements to
accommodate the particular design, appearance, or intended purpose of such
structure.
         (b)   Due to the public health, safety, and welfare concerns
associated with the design and function of county owned traffic control
facilities, including, but not limited to, signal/semaphore poles and
structures, such facilities shall not be defined or permitted as a wireless
support structures.
      (6)   Where an applicant proposes to replace a wireless support
structure, the county may impose reasonable restocking, replacement, or
relocation requirements on the replacement of such structure.
   (D)   Small wireless facility agreement and fees.
      (1)   A small wireless facility shall only be collocated on a small
wireless support structure owned or controlled by the county, or any other
county asset in the right-of-way, after the applicant has executed a small
wireless facility collocation agreement with the county. The standard
collocation agreement may require payment of the following fees or charges:
         (a)   Up to $150 per year for rent to occupy space on the wireless
support structure owned or controlled by the county;
         (b)   Up to $25 per year for maintenance associated with the space
occupied on the wireless support structure; and/or
         (c)   A monthly fee for electricity used to operate the small wireless
facility, if not purchased directly from a utility, at the rate of:
            1.   Seventy-three dollars per radio node less than or equal to 100
maximum watts;
            2.   One hundred eighty-two dollars per radio node over 100 maximum
watts; or
            3.   The actual costs of electricity, if the actual costs exceed
the amount in divisions (D)(1)(c)1. or (D)(1)(c)2.
      (2)   The standard collocation agreement shall be in addition to, and not
in lieu of, the required small wireless facility permit, provided, however,
that the applicant shall not be additionally required to obtain a license or
franchise in order to collocate. Issuance of a small wireless facility permit
does not supersede, alter, or affect any then-existing agreement between the
county and applicant.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.12 ACTION ON SMALL WIRELESS PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Deadline for action. The county shall approve or deny a small wireless
facility permit application within 90 days after filing of such application.
The small wireless facility permit and any associated building permit
application, shall be deemed approved if the county fails to approve or deny
the application within the review periods established in this section, unless
the applicant and the county have mutually agreed in writing to extend the 90-
day deadline.
   (B)   Consolidated applications.
      (1)   An applicant may file a consolidated small wireless facility permit
application addressing the proposed collocation of up to 15 small wireless
facilities, or a greater number if agreed to by a local government unit,
provided that all small wireless facilities in the application:
         (a)   Are located within a two-mile radius;
         (b)   Consist of substantially similar equipment; and
         (c)   Are to be placed on similar types of wireless support
structures.
      (2)   In rendering a decision on a consolidated permit application, the
county may approve some small wireless facilities and deny others, but may not
use denial of one or more permits as a basis to deny all small wireless
facilities in the application.
   (C)   Tolling of deadline. The 90-day deadline for action on a small
wireless facility permit application may be tolled if:
      (1)   The county receives applications from one or more applicants
seeking approval of permits for more than 30 small wireless facilities within a
seven-day period. In such case, the county may extend the deadline for all such
applications by 30 days by informing the affected applicants in writing of such
extension;
      (2)   The applicant fails to submit all required documents or information
and the county provides written notice of incompleteness to the applicant
within 30 days of receipt the application. Upon submission of additional
documents or information, the county shall have ten days to notify the
applicant in writing of any still-missing information; or
      (3)   The county and a small wireless facility applicant agree in writing
to toll the review period.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.13 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. The county shall establish an excavation permit
fee in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      (1)   The county's actual management costs; and
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable; and county engineering, make-
ready, and construction costs associated with collocation of small wireless
facilities.
   (B)   Conditions. The county may impose conditions on the issuance of the
permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to protect the public's
health, safety, and welfare, or when necessary to protect the right-of-way and
its current use, including the recovery of any unusual management costs not
recovered through the standard permit fee, including, the cost of assigning a
police officer to provide traffic management or the cost of assigning a field
observer.
   (C)   Obstruction permit fee. The county shall establish the obstruction
permit fee and shall be in an amount sufficient to recover the county
management costs and county engineering, make-ready, and construction costs
associated with collocation of small wireless facilities.
   (D)   Payment of permit fees. No right-of-way permit shall be issued without
payment of right-of-way permit fees unless the county allows the applicant to
pay such fees within 30 days of billing. Government agencies and non-profit
organizations are exempt from right-of-way permit fees, but are required to
obtain the appropriate right-of-way permit.
   (E)   Non-refundable. Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the
county has revoked for a breach as stated in §
93.23 are not refundable.
   (F)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.14 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under §
93.17.
   (B)   Temporary surfacing, patch, and restoration. Permittee shall patch its
own work. The county may choose either to have the permittee restore the right-
of-way or to restore the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall, at the time of application for an excavation permit, post a
construction performance bond in an amount determined by the county to be
sufficient to cover the cost of restoration. If, within 24 months following the
completion of the restoration of the right-of-way, the county determines the
right-of-way has been properly restored, the surety on the construction
performance bond shall be released.
      (2)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right- of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee. However,
the right-of-way user shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation
fee shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform excavation, backfilling,
patching, and restoration according to the standards and with the materials
specified by the county, and shall comply with Minn. Rules Part 7819.1100.
   (D)   Guarantees. The permittee guarantees its work and shall maintain it
for 24 months following its completion. The obligation is limited to one year
for plantings and turf establishment. During this 24-month period, it shall,
upon notification from the county, correct all restoration work to the extent
necessary, using the method required by the county. Said work shall be
completed within five business days of the receipt of the notice from the
county, not including days during which work cannot be done because of
circumstances constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as
unseasonable or unreasonable under §
93.17.
   (E)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching or restoration performed by permittee or its agents. The permittee,
upon notification from the county, shall correct all restoration work to the
extent necessary, using the method required by the county. Said work shall be
completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the
county, not including days during which work cannot be done because of
circumstances constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as
unseasonable or unreasonable under §
93.17.
   (F)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the county, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the county, the
county, at its option, may do such work. In that event the permittee shall pay
to the county, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-
way. If permittee fails to pay as required, the county may exercise its rights
under the construction performance bond.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.15 JOINT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Joint application. Registrants may be required to jointly apply for
permits to access, excavate/ grade, place a utility service, landscape, or
obstruct the right-of-way at the same place and time.
   (B)   Shared fees. Registrants who apply for permits for the same
obstruction, excavation, or right-of-way action which the county does not
perform, may share in the payment of the obstruction, excavation, or right-of-
way permit fee. In order to obtain a joint permit, registrants must agree among
themselves as to the portion each will pay and indicate the same on their
applications.
   (C)   With county projects. Registrants who join in a scheduled obstruction,
excavation, or right-of-way action performed by the county, whether or not it
is a joint application by two or more registrants or a single application, are
not required to pay the excavation or obstruction and degradation portions of
the permit fee, but a permit would still be required.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.16 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must, before working in that greater
area, make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees
required thereby, and be granted a new permit or permit extension. The county
may orally waive the requirement for a permit extension or the payment of an
additional fee. The county shall maintain a written record of any waivers
granted.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date. The county may orally waive the requirement for a permit
extension or the payment of an additional fee. The county shall maintain a
written record of any waivers granted.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.17 OTHER OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with other laws. Obtaining a right-of-way permit does not
relieve permittee of its duty to obtain all other necessary permits, licenses,
and authority, and to pay all fees required by the county or other appropriate
jurisdiction, or other applicable rule, law, or regulation. A permittee shall
comply with all requirements of local, state, and federal laws, including, but
not limited to, M.S. §§ 216D.01 through 216D.09 (the Gopher State One-Call
Excavation Notice System) and Minn. Rules Chapter 7560. A permittee shall
perform all work in conformance with all applicable codes and established rules
and regulations, and is responsible for all work done in the right-of-way
pursuant to its permit, regardless of who does the work.
   (B)   Prohibited work. Except in an emergency, and with the approval of the
county, no right- of-way obstruction or excavation may be done when seasonally
prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work.
   (C)   Interference with right-of-way.
      (1)   A permittee shall not so obstruct a right-of-way that the natural
free and clear passage of water through the gutters, culverts, ditches, tiles,
or other waterways shall be interfered with. Private vehicles of those doing
work in the right-of-way may not be parked within or next to a permit area,
unless parked in conformance with county, township, or city parking
regulations. The loading or unloading of trucks must be done solely within the
defined permit area unless specifically authorized by the permit.
      (2)   Traffic control shall conform to the Minnesota Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices (MMUTCD) and its field manual, and any written
directions of the county.
   (D)   Trenchless excavation. As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including, but not limited
to, horizontal directional drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
M.S. Chapter 216D and Minn. Rules Chapter 7560, and shall require potholing or
open cutting over existing underground utilities before excavating, as
determined by the Director.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.18 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The county may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements and
conditions of this chapter or if the county determines that the denial is
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare, or when necessary
to protect the right-of-way and its current and future use.
   (B)   The county may deny a permit if the applicant has failed to comply
with conditions of a previous permit issued by the county. The county may
withhold issuance of a permit until conditions of the previous permit are
complied with.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.19 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The excavation, backfilling, patching, and restoration, and all other
work performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minn.
Rules Parts 7819.1100 and 7819.5000, and shall conform to MN/DOT standard
specifications and other applicable local requirements, in so far as they are
not inconsistent with the M.S. §§ 237.162 and 237.163. Installation of service
laterals shall be performed in accordance with Minn. Rules Chapter 7560 and
this chapter. Service lateral installation is further subject to those
requirements and conditions set forth by the county in the applicable permits
and/or agreements referenced in §
93.24(B).
   (B)   Procedural requirements. The revocation or denial of a permit must be
made in writing and must document the basis for the denial. The county must
notify the applicant or right-of-way user in writing within three business day
of the decision to revoke or deny a permit. If an application is denied, the
right-of-way user may address the reasons to for the denial identified by the
county and resubmit the application. If the application is resubmitted within
30 days of receipt of the notice of the denial, no additional application fee
shall be imposed. The county must approve or deny the resubmitted application
within 30 days after submission.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.20 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate to the county
showing the completion date for the work performed, identifying the installer
and designer of record, and certifying the work was completed according to the
county's requirements. The completion certificate shall be in accordance with
Minn. Rules Part 7819.1300.
   (B)   Site inspection. Permittee shall make the work-site available to the
county and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable
times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of Director.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the Director may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety,
or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The Director may issue an order to the permittee for any work that
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
rules, laws, conditions, or codes, so long as the nonconformance constitutes a
"substantial breach" as set forth in M.S. § 237.163, subds. 4(c)(1) through 4
(c)(5). The order shall state that failure to correct the violation will be
cause for revocation of the permit. Within a reasonable time after issuance of
the order, the permittee shall present proof to the Director that the violation
has been corrected. If such proof has not been presented within the required
time, the Director may revoke the permit pursuant to §
93.23.
      (3)   The cost of any action required by the Director shall be paid by
the permittee.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.21 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations.
      (1)   Each registrant shall immediately notify the county of any event
regarding its facilities that it considers to be an emergency. The registrant
may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary to respond to the emergency.
Excavators' notification to Gopher State One-Call regarding an emergency
situation does not fulfill this requirement. Within two business days after the
occurrence of the emergency, the registrant shall apply for the necessary
permits, pay the fees associated therewith, and fulfill the rest of the
requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with this chapter for
the actions it took in response to the emergency.
      (2)   If the county becomes aware of an emergency regarding a
registrant's facilities, the county will attempt to contact the local
representative of each registrant affected, or potentially affected, by the
emergency. In any event, the county may take whatever action it deems necessary
to respond to the emergency, the cost of which shall be borne by the registrant
whose facilities occasioned the emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit and, as a penalty, pay double
the normal fee for said permit, pay double all the other fees required by this
code, deposit with the county the fees necessary to correct any damage to the
right-of- way, and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.22 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the county of
the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.23 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The county reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit without a fee refund, if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule,
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit, including a threat to
the safety of workers, or the right-of-way user, or utility users. A
substantial breach by permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the county or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner, unless a
permit extension is obtained, or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittee's control, or failure to relocate existing
facilities as specified in §
93.25;
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
93.20;
      (6)   Failure of the utility to pay the required costs, fees, or charges
billed by the county; or
      (7)   Failure to provide traffic control that conforms to the provisions
of the Minnesota Manual on Traffic Control Devices, including the Temporary
Traffic Control Zones Field Manual.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the county determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation, or any condition of the permit, the county shall
make a written demand upon the permittee to remedy such violation. The demand
shall state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the
permit. A substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the county, at its
discretion, to place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate
and remedy the breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, permittee shall provide the county with a plan,
acceptable to the county, that will cure the breach. Permittee's failure to so
contact the county, or permittee's failure to timely submit an acceptable plan,
or permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be
cause for immediate revocation of the permit. Further, permittee's failure to
so contact the county, or permittee's failure to submit an acceptable plan, or
permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall
automatically place the permittee on probation for one full year. No plan will
be unreasonably rejected.
   (D)   Cause for probation. From time to time, the county may establish a
list of conditions of the permit, which if breached will automatically place
the permittee on probation for one full year, such as, but not limited to,
working out of the allotted time period or working on right-of-way grossly
outside of the permit authorization.
   (E)   Automatic revocation. If a permittee, while on probation, commits a
breach as outlined above, permittee's permit will automatically be revoked and
permittee will not be allowed further permits for one full year, except for
emergency repairs.
   (F)   Reimbursement of county costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the county for the county's reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorney’s fees
incurred in connection with such revocation.
   (G)   Revoked permit. If the county revokes a utility's permit for breach of
this chapter, the utility will not be allowed to install any utility or to
obstruct or excavate within the county right-of-way until the breach situation
is corrected to the satisfaction of the county and the permit is reissued.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.24 MAPPING DATA.
   (A)   Information required. Each registrant and permittee shall provide
mapping information required by the Director in accordance with Minn. Rules
Parts 7819.4000 and 7819.4100. Within 90 days following completion of any work
pursuant to a permit, the permittee shall provide the Director accurate maps
and drawings certifying the as-built location of all equipment installed,
owned, and maintained by the permittee. Such maps and drawings shall include
the horizontal and vertical location of all facilities and equipment and shall
be provided consistent with the county's electronic mapping system, when
practical, or as a condition imposed by the Director. Failure to provide maps
and drawings pursuant to this division shall be grounds for revoking the permit
holder's registration.
   (B)   Service laterals. All permits issued for the installation or repair of
service laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minn. Rules Part
7560.0150, subp. 2, shall require the permittee's use of appropriate means of
establishing the horizontal locations of installed service laterals, and the
service lateral vertical locations in those cases where the director reasonably
requires it. Permittees or their subcontractors shall submit to the Director
evidence satisfactory to the Director of the installed service lateral
locations. Compliance with this division and with applicable Gopher State One-
Call law and Minnesota Rules governing service laterals installed after
December 31, 2005, shall be a condition of any Director approval necessary for
payments to contractors working on a public improvement project including those
under M.S. Chapter 429, and Director approval of performance under development
agreements, or other subdivision or site plan approval under M.S. Chapter 462.
The Director shall reasonably determine the appropriate method of providing
such information to the Director. Failure to provide prompt and accurate
information on the service laterals installed may result in the revocation of
the permit issued for the work or for future permits to the offending permittee
or its subcontractors.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.25 LOCATION AND RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Placement, location, and relocation. Placement, location, and
relocation of facilities must comply with the Act, with other applicable law,
and with Minn. Rules Parts 7819.3100, 7819.5000, and 7819.5100, to the extent
the rules do not limit authority otherwise available to cities.
   (B)   Corridors.
      (1)   The county may assign a specific area within the right-of-way, or
any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of facilities
that is, or, pursuant to current technology, the county expects will someday
be, located within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction, or other
permits issued by the county involving the installation or replacement of
facilities shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
      (2)   Any registrant who has facilities in the right-of-way in a position
at variance with the corridors established by the county shall, no later than
at the time of the next reconstruction or excavation of the area where the
facilities are located, move the facilities to the assigned position within the
right-of-way, unless this requirement is waived by the county for good cause
shown, upon consideration of such factors as the remaining economic life of the
facilities, public safety, customer service needs, and hardship to the
registrant.
   (C)   Nuisance. One year after the passage of this chapter, any facilities
found in a right-of- way that have not been registered shall be deemed to be a
nuisance. The county may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in
equity, including, but not limited to, abating the nuisance or taking
possession of the facilities and restoring the right-of-way to a useable
condition.
   (D)   Limitation of space. To protect public health, safety, and welfare, or
when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the county
shall have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional
facilities within the right-of-way. In making such decisions, the county shall
strive to the extent possible to accommodate all existing and potential users
of the right-of-way, but shall be guided primarily by considerations of the
public interest, the public's needs for the particular utility service, the
condition of the right-of-way, the time of year with respect to essential
utilities, the protection of existing facilities in the right-of-way, and
future county plans for public improvements and development projects which have
been determined to be in the public interest.
   (E)   Relocation of existing facilities.
      (1)   A right-of-way user shall promptly and at its own expense, with due
regard for seasonal working conditions, permanently remove and relocate its
facilities in the right-of-way when it is necessary to prevent interference,
and not merely for the convenience of the local government unit, in connection
with:
         (a)   A present or future local government use of the right-of-way for
a public project;
         (b)   The public health or safety; or
         (c)   The safety and convenience of travel over the right-of-way.
      (2)   A right-of-way user is not required to remove or relocate its
facilities from a right-of-way that has been vacated in favor of a
nongovernmental entity unless and until the reasonable costs to do so are first
paid to the right-of-way user.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.26 LOCATION OF FACILITIES DURING DESIGN PROCESS.
   In addition to complying with the requirements of M.S. Chapter 216D, Gopher
State One-Call Excavation Notice System, before the start date of any right-of-
way excavation, each registrant who has facilities or equipment in the area to
be excavated shall mark the horizontal and vertical placement of all said
facilities. Any registrant whose facilities are less than 20 inches below a
concrete or asphalt surface shall notify and work closely with the excavation
contractor to establish the exact location of its facilities and the best
procedure for excavation.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.27 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   (A)   When the county does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary
to maintain, support, or move a registrant's facilities to protect it, the
county shall notify the local representative as early as is reasonably
possible. The costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and
must be paid within 30 days from the date of billing. Each registrant shall be
responsible for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way which
it or its facilities damage. Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost
of repairing any damage to the facilities of another registrant caused during
the county's response to an emergency occasioned by that registrant's
facilities.
   (B)   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 216D, as amended, shall apply to all
situations involving damages to facilities during excavation operations.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.28 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   Reservation of right. If the county vacates a right-of-way that contains the
facilities of a registrant, the registrant's rights in the vacated right-of-way
are governed by Minn. Rules Part 7819.3200 and other applicable laws
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.29 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   By registering with the county, or by accepting a permit under this
chapter, a registrant or permittee agrees to defend and indemnify the county in
accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rules Part 7819.1250.
   (B)   Indemnification. 
      (1)   To the fullest extent permitted by law, a registrant or permittee
shall defend, indemnify, keep, and hold the county, its officials, employees,
and agents, free and harmless from any and all costs, specifically including
attorney fees and other costs of defense, liabilities, and claims for damages
of any kind arising out of the construction, presence, installation,
maintenance, repair, or operation of its equipment and facilities, or out of
any activity undertaken in or near a public right-of- way, whether or not any
act or omission complaint of is authorized, allowed, or prohibited by a public
right-of-way permit.
      (2)   The foregoing does not indemnify the county for its own negligence
or other wrongful act or omission except for claims arising out of or alleging
the county's negligence in issuing the permit or failing to properly or
adequately inspect or enforce compliance with a term, condition, or purpose of
a permit.
      (3)   All permits are granted subject to ownership rights the county may
have in the property involved and to the extent that state, federal, local
laws, rules, and regulations allow, and said permit is subject to all such laws
and rules.
   (C)   Limitation of liability. By registering with the county, or by
accepting a permit under this chapter, a registrant or permittee agrees to
defend and indemnify the county for any liability for:
      (1)   Bodily injury or death of persons, for property damage, or loss of
service claims by parties other than registrant or the county; or
      (2)   Claims or penalties of any sort resulting from the installation,
presence, maintenance, or operation of equipment or facilities by registrants
or permittees, or activities of registrants or permittees.
   (D)   This section is not, as to third parties, a waiver of any defense or
immunity otherwise available to the registrant, permittee, or the county, and
the registrant or permittee, in defending any action on behalf of the county,
shall be entitled to assert in any action every defense or immunity that the
county could assert in its own behalf. In defending the county, any registrant
or permittee shall obtain the consent of the County Board before any settlement
shall be enforced.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.30 ABANDONED AND UNUSED FACILITIES.
   (A)   Discontinued operations. A registrant who has determined to
discontinue all or a portion of its operations in the county must provide
information satisfactory to the county that the registrant's obligations for
its facilities in the right-of-way under Minn. Rules Chapter 7819 and this
chapter have been lawfully assumed by another registrant.
   (B)   Removal. Any registrant who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-
way shall remove them from that right-of-way if required in conjunction with
other right-of-way repair, excavation, or construction, unless this requirement
is waived by the county.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.31 APPEAL.
   (A)   A right-of-way user that has been denied registration, has been denied
a permit, has had a permit revoked, believes that the fees imposed are not in
conformity with M.S. § 237.163, subd. 6, or disputes a determination of the
county regarding §§
93.11,
93.13,
93.18, or
93.23 of this chapter may have the denial, revocation, fee imposition, or
decision reviewed, upon written request, to the County Board. The County Board
shall act on a timely written request at its next regularly scheduled meeting,
provided the right-of-way user has submitted its appeal with sufficient time to
include the appeal as a regular agenda item. A decision by the County Board
affirming the denial, revocation, or fee imposition will be in writing and
supported by written findings establishing the reasonableness of the decision.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.32 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY POLICE POWER.
   A registrant's or permittee's rights are subject to the regulatory and
police powers of the county to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
§ 93.33 SEVERABILITY AND FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   If any portion of this chapter is for any reason held invalid by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct, and independent provision and such holding shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions thereof.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter precludes the county from requiring a
franchise agreement with the applicant, as allowed by law, in addition to
requirements set forth herein.
(Ord. 91-2019, passed 2-5-19)
CHAPTER 94: USE OF CANNABIS PRODUCTS IN PUBLIC PLACES
Section
   
94.01   Statutory authority
   
94.02   Purpose and intent
   
94.03   Definitions
   
94.04   Prohibited acts
   
94.05   Jurisdiction
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authorization contained in M.S.
Chapter 342 and M.S. § 152.0263, subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time, that allows county boards to limit the use of cannabis flower, cannabis
products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products in a
public place.
(Ord. 106-2024, passed 5-21-24)
§ 94.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted by the Carver County Board of Commissioners
for the purpose of protecting public health and safety by prohibiting the use
of cannabis and cannabis derived products in public places and places of public
accommodation within Carver County.
   (B)   The county intends to be proactive in protecting public health and
safety by enacting a chapter that will mitigate threats presented to the public
and public health by the public use of cannabis. State law authorizes adoption
of ordinances to regulate actual or potential threats to the public health. See
M.S. § 145A.04 and § 145A.05.
   (C)   Carver County (hereinafter “the county”) recognizes the risks that
unintended access and use of cannabis products and exposure to cannabis and its
effects present to the health, welfare, and safety of members of the public and
in particular the youth of the county.
(Ord. 106-2024, passed 5-21-24)
§ 94.03 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. The following words, terms,
and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to
them except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS FLOWER. Cannabis flower that is approved for sale by the
Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management or is substantially similar to a
product approved by the Office. ADULT-USE CANNABIS FLOWER does not include
medical cannabis flower, hemp plant parts, or hemp-derived consumer products.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PRODUCTS. A cannabis product that is approved for sale by
the Office or is substantially similar to a product approved by the Office.
Adult-use cannabis product includes edible cannabis products but does not
include medical cannabinoid products or lower-potency hemp edibles.
   CANNABIS FLOWER. The harvested flower, bud, leaves, and stems of a cannabis
plant. CANNABIS FLOWER includes adult-use cannabis flower and medical cannabis
flower. CANNABIS FLOWER does not include cannabis seed, hemp plant parts, or
hemp-derived consumer products.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT. Any of the following:
      (1)   Cannabis concentrate;
      (2)    A product infused with cannabinoids, including but not limited to
tetrahydrocannabinol, extracted or derived from cannabis plants or cannabis
flower; or
      (3)   Any other product that contains cannabis concentrate.
   HEMP-DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCTS. 
      (1)   A product intended for human or animal consumption, does not
contain cannabis flower or cannabis concentrate, and:
         (a)   Contains or consists of hemp plant parts; or
         (b)   Contains hemp concentrate or artificially derived cannabinoids
in combination with other ingredients.
      (2)   Hemp-derived consumer products does not include artificially
derived cannabinoids, lower-potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived topical
products, hemp fiber products, or hemp grain.
   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. Any product that:
      (1)   Is intended to be eaten or consumed as a beverage by humans;
      (2)   Contains hemp concentrate or an artificially derived cannabinoid;
in combination with food ingredients;
      (3)   Is not a drug;
      (4)   Consists of servings that contain no more than five milligrams of
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol, 25 milligrams of cannabinol, or any combination
of those cannabinoids that does not exceed the identified amounts;
      (5)   Does not contain more than a combined total of 0.5 milligrams of
all other cannabinoids per serving;
      (6)   Does not contain an artificially derived cannabinoid other than
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol;
      (7)   Does not contain a cannabinoid derived from cannabis plants or
cannabis flower; and
      (8)   Is a type of product approved for sale by the Office or is
substantially similar to a product approved by the Office, including but not
limited to products that resemble nonalcoholic beverages, candy, and baked
goods.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION.
      (1)   A business, refreshment, entertainment, recreation, or
transportation facility of any kind, whose goods, services, facilities,
privileges, advantages, or accommodations are extended, offered, sold, or
otherwise made available to the public.
      (2)   Exceptions to the definition of PUBLIC PLACE or PLACE OF PUBLIC
ACCOMMODATION. A PUBLIC PLACE or a PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION does not
include the following:
         (a)   A private residence, including the individual’s curtilage or
yard.
         (b)   A private property, not generally accessible by the public,
unless the individual is explicitly prohibited from consuming cannabis flower,
cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer
products on the property by the owner of the property; or
         (c)   On the premises of an establishment or event licensed to permit
on-site consumption.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all properties and places within the County of Carver
owned, leased, or controlled by the County of Carver and any and all private
properties and places within the County of Carver that are made open to,
accessible to, or available for use by the public. The term PUBLIC PLACE
includes, but is not limited to, a public park; beach; recreation area or
trail; parking lot; in a vehicle or recreational vehicle within a county park
or trail; public street; right-of-way; sidewalk; any enclosed, indoor area used
by the general public, including, but not limited to, theaters; restaurants;
bars; food establishments; places licensed to sell intoxicating liquor, wine,
or malt beverages; retail businesses; gyms; common areas in buildings; public
shopping areas; auditoriums; arenas; or other places of public accommodation.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, pipe, or any other lighted or heated product containing
cannabis flower, cannabis products, artificially derived cannabinoids, or hemp-
derived consumer products. SMOKING includes carrying or using an activated
electronic delivery device for human consumption through inhalation of aerosol
or vapor from the product.
(Ord. 106-2024, passed 5-21-24)
§ 94.04 PROHIBITED ACTS. 
   (A)   No person shall use cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency
hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products in a public place or a place of
public accommodation unless the premises is an establishment or event licensed
to permit on-site consumption of adult-use cannabis flower and adult use
cannabis products, or an establishment or event licensed or registered with the
state to permit on-site consumption of lower-potency hemp edibles.
   (B)   No person shall vaporize or smoke cannabis flower, cannabis products,
artificially derived cannabinoids, or hemp-derived consumer products in any
location where the smoke, aerosol, or vapor would be inhaled by a minor.
(Ord. 106-2024, passed 5-21-24)
§ 94.05 JURISDICTION.
   If a city or town located in Carver County has enacted or enacts an
ordinance for the purpose of regulating consumption of cannabis and cannabis
derived products in public places, the city or town ordinance shall preempt and
supersede the Carver County ordinance so as to control the consumption of
regulated products in public places within that city or town. This chapter will
continue to govern any Carver County owned property and Carver County owned
parks regardless of any local government adopted ordinance.
(Ord. 106-2024, passed 5-21-24)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal penalty. A violation of this chapter shall be a petty
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to $300. Nothing in this chapter shall
prohibit the United States, the State of Minnesota, or the county from
investigating or prosecuting any other activity that is a crime under any other
federal or state statute or county ordinance.
   (B)   An alleged violation or violation of this chapter may be investigated
by a peace officer as defined in M.S. § 626.84, subd. 1. Any alleged violation
or violation of this chapter shall be prosecuted by the Office of the Carver
County Attorney.
(Ord. 106-2024, passed 5-21-24)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
111.   TOBACCO REGULATIONS
         
112.   CHARITABLE GAMBLING
         
113.   ADULT USE BUSINESSES
         
114.   CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
Sunday Liquor Sales
   
110.01   Authority
   
110.02   Jurisdiction
   
110.03   Adoption of state licensing regulations
   
110.04   Organizational structure requirements
SUNDAY LIQUOR SALES
§ 110.01 AUTHORITY.
   These regulations are adopted pursuant to M.S. § 340A.504, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 38, passed 8-16-94)
§ 110.02 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all land within the county
which is not within the boundaries of an incorporated city.
(Ord. 38, passed 8-16-94)
§ 110.03 ADOPTION OF STATE LICENSING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   M.S. §§ 340A.401 through 340A.510, as they may be amended from time to
time, are hereby adopted by reference and made part of this subchapter as
completely as if the statutes were full set forth herein, except as herein
after modified.
   (B)   The hours of sale shall be from 8:00 a.m. to midnight on Sunday.
   (C)   Pursuant to M.S. §§ 340A.301, subd. 6d(a) and 340A.301, subd. 7(b),
the county approves the off-sale of growlers, as defined by M.S. § 340A.285, on
Sundays in accord with this chapter by holder of a small brewer license, issued
pursuant to M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6(c), (i) or (j).
   (D)   Pursuant to M.S. § 340A.26, subd. 5, the county approves on-sale
business on Sundays at taprooms in accord with this chapter by the holder of a
small brewer license, issued pursuant to M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6(c), (i) or
(j).
(Ord. 38, passed 8-16-94)
§ 110.04 ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS.
   Approval of applications and renewal applications for Sunday liquor hours
pursuant to M.S. § 340A.504, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time,
shall be granted by the County Board, upon approval of written application by
each organization.
(Ord. 38, passed 8-16-94)
CHAPTER 111: TOBACCO REGULATIONS
Section
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Definitions and interpretations
   
111.03   License requirements
   
111.04   Fees
   
111.05   License; basis for denial
   
111.06   Prohibited sales
   
111.07   Vending machines
   
111.08   Self-service sales
   
111.09   Responsibility
   
111.10   Compliance checks and inspections
   
111.11   Other illegal acts
   
111.12   Violations
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Because the county recognizes that many persons under the age of 18
years purchase or otherwise obtain, possess and use tobacco, tobacco products
and tobacco related devices, and the sales, possession and use are violations
of both state and federal laws; and because studies, which are hereby accepted
and adopted have shown that most smokers begin smoking before they have reached
the age of 18 years and that those persons who reach the age of 18 years
without having started smoking are significantly less likely to begin smoking;
and because smoking has been shown to be the cause of several serious health
problems which subsequently place a financial burden on all levels of
government.
   (B)   This chapter shall be intended to regulate the sale, possession and
use of tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco related devices for the purpose of
enforcing and furthering existing laws, to protect minors against the serious
effects associated with the illegal use of tobacco, tobacco products and
tobacco related devices, and to further the official public policy of the state
in regard to preventing young people from starting to smoke as stated in M.S. §
144.391, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (1)   “Cigarette Smoking - Attributable, Mortality and Years of Potential
Life Lost - United States 1990,” in MMWR, CDC, DHHS, 42(33):645-649.
      (2)   Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, “Preventing Tobacco Use
Among Young People: A Report of the Surgeon General, U.S. Government Printing
Office,” Washington, D.C., 1994. Johnston L. Backman J. O’Malley P.
      (3)   “Cigarette smoking among American teens rises again in 1995,” Ann
Arbor, Michigan University of Michigan News and Information Services, December
11, 1995.
      (4)   “Minnesota Estimates of Mortality and Economic Costs Due to
Smoking, Based on 1995 Data,” Minnesota Department of Health, Center of Health
Promotion, November 1996.
      (5)   The George H. Gallup International Institute, Teenage Attitudes and
Behavior Concerning Tobacco, September 1992.
(Ord. 42, passed 2-10-98)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the county uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco related devices
are following and complying with the requirements of this chapter. COMPLIANCE
CHECKS shall involve the use of minors as authorized by this chapter.
COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall also mean the use of minors who attempt to purchase
tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices for educational research
and training purposes as authorized by state and federal laws. COMPLIANCE
CHECKS may also be conducted by other units of government for the purpose of
enforcing appropriate federal, state or local laws and regulations relating to
tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco related devices.
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE. Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia, or any other substance intended for human consumption that can be used
by a person to simulate smoking in the delivery of nicotine or any other
substance through inhalation of vapor from the product. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY
DEVICE includes any component part of a product, whether or not marketed or
sold separately. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE does not include any product that
has been approved or certified by the United States Food and Drug
Administration for sale as a tobacco- cessation product, as a tobacco-
dependance product, or for other medical purposes, and is marketed and sold for
such an approved purpose.
   INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED. The practice of selling any tobacco or tobacco
product wrapped individually for sale. Individually wrapped tobacco and tobacco
products shall include, but not be limited to single cigarette packs, single
bags or cans of loose tobacco in any form, and single cans or other packaging
of snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons or other packaging containing more than a
single pack or other container as described in this chapter shall not be
considered INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED.
   LOOSIES. The common term used to refer to a single or individually packaged
cigarette.
   MINOR. Any natural person who has not yet reached the age of 18 years.
   MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated out of a truck,
van, automobile or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and not a
fixed address store front or other permanent type of structure.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where tobacco, tobacco products
or tobacco related devices are available for sale to the general public. RETAIL
ESTABLISHMENTS include, but are not limited to grocery stores, convenience
stores and restaurants.
   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other consideration.
   SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING. Open displays of tobacco products or tobacco
related devices in any manner where any person shall have access to the
tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices, without the assistance or
intervention of the licensee or the licensee’s employee. The assistance or
intervention shall entail the actual physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco
product or tobacco related device between the customer and the licensee or
employee. SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING shall not include vending machines.
   TOBACCO or TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any substance or item containing tobacco leaf,
including but not limited to cigarettes; cigars; pipe tobacco; snuff; fine cut
or other chewing tobacco; cheroots; stogies; perique; granulated, plug cut,
crimp cut, ready-rubbed and other smoking tobacco; snuff flowers; cavendish;
shorts; plug and twist tobaccos; dipping tobaccos; refuse scraps, clippings,
cuttings, and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco leaf
prepared in a manner as to be suitable for chewing, sniffing or smoking.
   TOBACCO RELATED DEVICES. Any tobacco product as well as a pipe, rolling
papers, electronic delivery devices or other device intentionally designed or
intended to be used in a manner which enables the chewing, sniffing or smoking
of tobacco or tobacco products.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices
upon the insertion of money, tokens or other form of payment directly into the
machine by the person seeking to purchase the tobacco, tobacco product or
tobacco related device.
(Ord. 42, passed 2-10-98; Am. Ord. 82-2015, passed 1-5-16)
§ 111.03 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall sell or offer to sell any tobacco, tobacco products or
tobacco related device without first having obtained a license to do so from
the county.
   (B)   An application for a license to sell tobacco, tobacco products or
tobacco related devices shall be made on a form provided by the county. The
application shall contain the full name of the applicant, the applicant’s
residential and business addresses and telephone numbers, the name of the
business for which the license is sought, and any additional information the
county deems necessary. Upon receipt of a completed application, the County
Auditor shall forward the application to the County Administrator for action at
the next regularly scheduled county board meeting. If the County Auditor
determines an application to be incomplete, the application shall be returned
to the applicant with notice of the information necessary to make the
application complete.
   (C)   The County Board may either approve or deny the license, or it may
delay action for a reasonable period of time as necessary to complete any
investigation of the application or the applicant as it deems necessary. If the
County Board approves the license, the County Auditor shall issue the license
to the applicant. If the County Board denies the license, notice of the denial
shall be given to the applicant along with notice of the applicant’s right to
appeal the decision pursuant to §
111.12.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid for one calendar
year from the date of issue.
   (E)   Any license issued under this chapter may be revoked or suspended as
provided in §§
111.12 and
111.99.
   (F)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid only on the
premises for which the license was issued and only for the person or entity to
whom the license was issued. No transfer of any license to another location,
person or entity shall be valid without the prior approval of the County Board.
   (G)   No license shall be issued to a moveable place of business. Only fixed
location businesses shall be eligible to be licensed under this chapter.
   (H)   All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of the
general public on the licensed premise.
   (I)   The renewal of a license issued under this section shall be handled in
the same manner as the original application. The request for a renewal shall be
made at least 30 days but no more than 60 days before the expiration of the
current license. The issuance of a license issued under this chapter shall be
considered a privilege and not an absolute right of the applicant and shall not
entitle the holder to an automatic renewal of the license.
(Ord. 42, passed 2-10-98)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.04 FEES.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license
fee shall be paid in full. The annual fee for a license under this chapter
shall be established annually by the County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 42, passed 2-10-98; Am. Ord. 82-2015, passed 1-5-16)
§ 111.05 LICENSE; BASIS FOR DENIAL.
   (A)   If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it shall be
revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the license under
this section.
   (B)   The following shall be grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of
a license under this chapter. Except as may otherwise be provided by law, the
existence of any particular ground for denial does not mean that the county
must deny the license:
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted within the past five years of any
violation of federal, state or local law, ordinance provision or other
regulation relating to tobacco or tobacco products or tobacco related devices;
      (3)   The applicant has had a license to sell tobacco, tobacco products
or tobacco related devices revoked within the preceding 12 months of the date
of application;
      (4)   The applicant fails to provide information required on the
application, or provides false or misleading information;
      (5)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state or other local law,
ordinance or other regulation, from holding a license; and/or
      (6)   The real estate taxes for the land on which the retail
establishment that is selling the tobacco, tobacco products and/or tobacco
related devices is located are delinquent.
(Ord. 42, passed 2-10-98)
§ 111.06 PROHIBITED SALES.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell or offer to
sell any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco related device:
   (A)   To any person under the age of 18 years;
   (B)   By means of any type of vending machine, except as may otherwise be
provided in this chapter;
   (C)   By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not need to
make a verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed premise in
order to receive the tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco related device and
whereby there is not a physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product or
tobacco related device between the licensee or the licensee’s employee and the
customer;
   (D)   By means of “loosies,” as defined in §
111.02;
   (E)   Containing opium, morphine, jimsonweed, belladonna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic or controlled
substances, except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process; and/or
   (F)   By any other means, to any other person, in any other manner or form
prohibited by federal, state or other local law, ordinance provision or other
regulation.
(Ord. 42, passed 2-10-98)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.07 VENDING MACHINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this chapter to allow the
sale of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices by the means of a
vending machine.
(Ord. 42, passed 2-10-98)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.08 SELF-SERVICE SALES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to allow the
sale of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices by any means
whereby the customer may have access to such items without having to request
the item from the licensee or the licensee’s employee and whereby there is not
a physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product or the tobacco related
device between the licensee or his or her clerk and the customer. All tobacco,
tobacco products and tobacco related devices shall either be stored behind a
counter or other area not freely accessible to customers. Any tobacco, tobacco
products or tobacco related devices in a case, other storage unit or free
standing, shall not be permitted on any counter accessible to customers.
   (B)   Any retailer selling tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related
devices at the time this chapter is adopted shall comply with this section
within 60 days of enactment.
   (C)   A license holder who operates an establishment that sells only
tobacco-related products is exempt from the self-service merchandising
provision if the license holder prohibits anyone under 18 years of age from
entering the establishment, unless accompanied by a parent, and the license
holder conspicuously displays a notice prohibiting persons under 18 years of
age from entering the establishment unless accompanied by a parent.
(Ord. 42, passed 2-10-98)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.09 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions of
their employees in regard to the sale of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco
related devices on the licensed premises, and the sale of an item by an
employee shall be considered a sale by the license holder. Nothing in this
section shall be construed as prohibiting the county from also subjecting the
employee to whatever penalties are appropriate under this chapter, state or
federal law or other applicable law or regulation.
(Ord. 42, passed 2-10-98)
§ 111.10 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by the County
Sheriff’s Department or other authorized official during regular business
hours.
   (B)   From time to time, but at least once per year, the county shall
conduct compliance checks by engaging, with the written consent of their
parents or guardians, minors over the age of 15 years but less than 18 years,
to enter the licensed premise to attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products
or tobacco related devices. Minors used for the purpose of compliance checks
shall be supervised by designated law enforcement officers or other designated
county personnel. Minors used for compliance checks shall not be guilty of the
unlawful purchase or attempted purchase, nor the unlawful possession of
tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices when the items are
obtained or attempted to be obtained as a part of the compliance check. No
minor used in compliance checks shall attempt to use a false identification
misrepresenting the minor’s age, and all minors lawfully engaged in a
compliance check shall answer all questions about the minor’s age asked by the
licensee or his or her employee and shall produce any identification, if any
exists, for which he or she is asked.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit compliance checks authorized by
state or federal laws for educational, research or training purposes or
required for the enforcement of a particular state or federal law.
(Ord. 42, passed 2-10-98)
§ 111.11 OTHER ILLEGAL ACTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be a violation of this
chapter:
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell or
otherwise provide any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco related device to any
minor.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to have in his
or her possession any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco related device. This
division shall not apply to minors lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to smoke, chew,
sniff or otherwise use any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco related device.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to purchase or
attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco
related device. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to
purchase or otherwise obtain the items on behalf of a minor. It shall further
be a violation for any person to coerce or attempt to coerce a minor to
illegally purchase or otherwise obtain or use any tobacco, tobacco product or
tobacco related device. This division shall not apply to minors lawfully
involved in a compliance check.
   (E)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to attempt to
disguise his or her true age by the use of a false form of identification,
whether the identification is that of another person or one on which the age of
the person has been modified or tampered with to represent an age older than
the actual age of the person.
(Ord. 42, passed 2-10-98)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.12 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon discovery of a suspected violation, the alleged violator shall be
issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets forth the alleged
violation and which shall inform the alleged violator of his or her right to be
heard.
   (B)   Following receipt of a notice of denial issued under §
111.03 or a notice of a violation and penalty issued under §
111.99, an applicant, license holder or employee of the license holder may
request a hearing before a hearing officer appointed by the County Board or its
designee. A request for a hearing shall be made by the applicant, license
holder or employee of the license holder in writing and filed with the County
Administrator within ten days of personal service or the mailing of the notice
of denial or alleged violation. Following receipt of a written request for
hearing, the applicant, license holder or employee of the license holder shall
be afforded an opportunity for a hearing before the hearing officer.
   (C)   If after the hearing, the applicant or license holder is found
ineligible for a license, or the license holder or employee of the license
holder is in violation of this chapter, that decision, along with the hearing
officer’s reasons for the decision shall be in writing. A copy shall be
provided to the applicant, license holder or employee of the license holder
within ten days of the date of the decision.
   (D)   Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officer shall be filed in
the district court for the county within 30 days of the decision of the hearing
officer.
   (E)   If the applicant, license holder or employee of the license holder has
been provided written notice of the denial or violation and if no request for a
hearing is filed within the ten-day period, then the denial, penalty,
suspension and/or revocation imposed pursuant to this chapter shall take effect
by default. The County Sheriff’s Office shall investigate compliance with the
suspension or revocation.
   (F)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the county from seeking
prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of this chapter. The
county also has the right to seek prosecution as set forth in M.S. Chapter 609,
as it may be amended from time to time, and any other applicable state criminal
statutes.
   (G)   Each violation, and every day in which a violation occurs or
continues, shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 42, passed 2-10-98)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any licensee found to have violated this chapter, or whose
employee shall have violated this chapter, shall be charged an administrative
fine of $100 for a first violation; $200 for a second offense at the same
licensed premises within a 24-month period; and $250 for a third or subsequent
offense at the same location within a 24-month period. In addition, after the
third offense, the license shall be suspended for not less than seven days.
      (2)   Other individuals, other than minors regulated by division (A)(3)
below, found to be in violation of this chapter shall be charged an
administrative fine of $50.
      (3)   Minors found in unlawful possession or who unlawfully purchase or
attempt to purchase, tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devises,
shall be issued a citation and processed through the Criminal Justice
Intervention Project, as established by County Court Services.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the providing of tobacco,
tobacco products or tobacco related devices to a minor as part of a lawfully
recognized religious, spiritual or cultural ceremony. It shall be an
affirmative defense to the violation of this chapter for a person to have
reasonably relied on proof of age as described by state law.
(Ord. 42, passed 2-10-98)
CHAPTER 112: CHARITABLE GAMBLING
Section
   
112.01   Authority
   
112.02   Adoption of Minnesota Statutes
   
112.03   Jurisdiction
   
112.04   Limitation on certain gambling sites
   
112.05   Limitation on certain leases
   
112.06   Organizational structure requirements
   
112.07   Reports
   
112.08   Non-compliance
§ 112.01 AUTHORITY.
   These regulations are adopted pursuant to M.S. § 349.213, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 29, passed 2-25-86)
§ 112.02 ADOPTION OF MINNESOTA STATUTES.
   M.S. §§ 349.11 through 349.22, as they may be amended from time to time, are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter as completely as if
said statutes were fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 29, passed 2-25-86)
§ 112.03 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this ordinance shall apply to all land within the county
which is not within the boundaries of an incorporated city.
(Ord. 29, passed 2-25-86)
§ 112.04 LIMITATION ON CERTAIN GAMBLING SITES.
   No more that one licensed organization may conduct lawful gambling on any
premises at which there is a gambling site during the same period or periods of
time that another licensed organization is conducting lawful gambling. All
leases pertaining to lawful gambling shall state the days of the week during
which a licensee may conduct a lawful gambling on said premises. This
prohibition shall, however, not apply to the conduct of raffles.
(Ord. 29, passed 2-25-86)
§ 112.05 LIMITATION ON CERTAIN LEASES.
   Lawful gambling consisting of the use of pull tabs may only be conducted by
a licensed organization on premises owned by said organization or upon space
leased by said organization.
(Ord. 29, passed 2-25-86)
§ 112.06 ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS.
   Approval of applications and renewal applications for lawful gambling
licenses pursuant to M.S. §§ 349.11 through 349.22, as they may be amended from
time to time, shall be granted by the County Board only to those organizations
which meet the following requirements:
   (A)   The organization is a qualified organization under M.S. § 349.14, as
it may be amended from time to time;
   (B)   Either 50% or more of the active members of the organization reside
within the county or the organization meets regularly at least once per month
and at least 90% of such regularly scheduled meetings are conducted within the
county; and
   (C)   The organization has been in existence for at least 24 consecutive
months.
(Ord. 29, passed 2-25-86)
§ 112.07 REPORTS.
   Each licensee shall annually, at least 60 days prior to the close of each
annual licensing period, file a report with the Carver County Auditor in such
form as prescribed by the county, showing how the profits derived from lawful
gambling conducted by such licensee have been spent for lawful purposes as
defined by M.S. § 349.12, sub. 11, as it may be amended from time to time. At
least 75% of said profits shall be spent for lawful purposes within the county
or to benefit residents of the county.
(Ord. 29, passed 2-25-86)
§ 112.08 NON-COMPLIANCE.
   Failure to comply with any provision of this ordinance shall be sufficient
cause for withholding approval by the County Board for issuing or renewing an
organization license.
(Ord. 29, passed 2-25-86)
CHAPTER 113: ADULT USE BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Statutory authorization
   
113.02   Findings and purpose
   
113.03   Title and short title
   
113.04   Jurisdiction
   
113.05   Compliance
   
113.06   Non-conforming uses
   
113.07   Enforcement
   
113.08   Interpretation
   
113.09   Inapplicability of M.S. § 617.242
   
113.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
113.11   Referral to other laws
   
113.12   Definitions
Administration
   
113.25   Adult use license and conditional use permit required
   
113.26   License fees
   
113.27   Granting of adult use license
   
113.28   Persons ineligible for adult use license
   
113.29   Permitted locations for adult use; principal
   
113.30   Conditions of adult use license
   
113.31   Expiration and renewal
   
113.32   Suspension and revocation
   
113.33   Hearing; denial, suspension, revocation of license; Appeal
Adult Use Operational Restrictions
   
113.45   Adult use; principal
   
113.46   Adult use; accessory
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority delegated to Carver County
by M.S. Chapter 394.
(Ord. 66-2010, passed 4-13-10)
§ 113.02 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is intended to regulate “adult uses”, those premises,
enterprises, establishments, businesses or places open to some or ail members
of the public, at or in which there is an emphasis on the presentation,
display, depiction or description of “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas” which are capable of being seen by members of the
public.
   (B)   The nature of adult uses is such that they are recognized as having
adverse secondary effects, based upon studies of the effects that adult
establishments have on the surrounding areas. These studies have been conducted
by the Minnesota Attorney General, and cities such as St. Paul, Minnesota;
Indianapolis, Indiana; Phoenix, Arizona; Los Angeles, California; Houston,
Texas; Newport News, Virginia; and Seattle, Washington.
   (C)   The adverse secondary effects found in the studies include increased
crime rates, decreased property values, increased transiency, neighborhood
blight, and potential health risks. These effects are particularly apparent
when they are accessible to minors and located near residential properties or
residential uses such as schools, day care centers, libraries or parks. The
nature of the adult uses requires that they not be allowed within certain
zoning districts, or set back a minimum distance from each other, or other
residential uses. Special regulation of these uses is necessary to ensure that
the adverse secondary effects will not contribute to or enhance criminal
activity in the area of such uses, nor will it contribute to the blighting or
downgrading of the surrounding property and lessening of its value.
   (D)   It is therefore in the best interest of the public health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of Carver County that certain types of activities, as
set forth in this chapter, are prohibited upon the premises of licensed liquor,
wine and beer establishments so as to best protect and assist the owners and
operators and employees of these premises, as well as patrons and the public in
general. This chapter is intended to prevent harm stemming from the physical
immediacy and combination of alcohol, nudity, and sex. The Carver County Board
of Commissioners also desires to prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual
harassment or activities likely to lead to the possibility of various acts of
criminal conduct such as prostitution, sexual assault, and disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 66-2010, passed 4-13-10)
§ 113.03 TITLE AND SHORT TITLE.
   (A)   Title. The title of this chapter is Carver County Code,
Chapter 113, Carver County Adult Use Businesses.
   (B)   Short title. This chapter shall be known, and may be referred to, as
Adult Use Businesses. When used herein, it shall be known as “this chapter.”
(Ord. 66-2010, passed 4-13-10)
§ 113.04 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all adult uses located in the
unincorporated areas within the boundaries of Carver County.
(Ord. 66-2010, passed 4-13-10)
§ 113.05 COMPLIANCE.
   All adult uses shall be in full compliance with requirements of this
chapter, the Carver County Zoning Code, the Carver County Subsurface Sewage
Treatment System Ordinance, other applicable provisions of county, state or
federal laws, and applicable fire, health, and/or safety codes.
(Ord. 66-2010, passed 4-13-10)
§ 113.06 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   Any adult use business existing on the effective date of the adoption of
this chapter may be continued subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   No such adult use business shall be expanded or enlarged except in
conformity with this chapter.
   (B)   A non-conforming adult use business shall be required to comply with
this ordinance, and apply for and receive an adult use license and conditional
use permit from the county within six months of the date of this chapter. The
county does not require a public hearing before issuing a license for the non-
conforming adult use business.
(Ord. 66-2010, passed 4-13-10) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Carver County Board of Commissioners, the Carver County Sheriff, and the
Carver County Land Management Department, or their designee, shall have
authority to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 66-2010, passed 4-13-10)
§ 113.08 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall
be interpreted to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the citizens
of Carver County by providing for the regulation of adult uses in an effort to
prevent or minimize adverse secondary effects associated with such adult uses.
This chapter is not intended to limit or repeal any other powers granted to
Carver County by the State of Minnesota.
(Ord. 66-2010, passed 4-13-10)
§ 113.09 INAPPLICABILITY OF M.S. § 617.242.
   Section 617.242 of the Minnesota Statutes does not apply to or in the
unincorporated areas of Carver County. The section is also inapplicable to or
in the unincorporated areas of Carver County as to any portion of the
operations of sexually-oriented businesses that are not regulated by this
chapter but which may otherwise have been subject to it.
(Ord. 66-2010, passed 4-13-10)
§ 113.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, or impair
any existing ordinances, or laws. If this chapter is inconsistent with any
other ordinance or law, that which imposes the greater restriction shall
prevail.
(Ord. 66-2010, passed 4-13-10)
§ 113.11 REFERRAL TO OTHER LAWS.
   If any section of this chapter references another ordinance, statute, rule
or other provision of law, the reference shall be for that other provision of
law as is currently enacted and as it may be amended or re-codified in the
future.
(Ord. 66-2010, passed 4-13-10)
§ 113.12 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Word usage. Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used
in this chapter shall be interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as
they have in common usage and so as to give this chapter its most reasonable
application. For the purposes of this chapter, the words “must” and “shall” are
mandatory and not permissive. All distances, unless otherwise specified, shall
be measured horizontally.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses of land or buildings as hereinafter
listed shall be permitted only in the districts indicated, and under the
conditions specified.
   (C)   Definitions. Any words not defined in this section shall have the
meanings given them in Merriam-Webster’s Collegiate Dictionary, Tenth Edition
or most recent edition. The following words and terms, whenever they occur in
this chapter are defined as follows.
      ADULT USE; BODY PAINTING STUDIO. A business or establishment if such
building or portion of a building excludes minors by virtue of age, and which
provides the service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent
or non-transparent, to or on the body of a patron when such body’s specified
anatomical areas are displayed, or the application of paint or other substance
by a patron to the body of another person if such body’s specified anatomical
areas are displayed.
      ADULT USE; BOOKSTORE. A building or portion of a building, establishment,
or business used for the barter, rental, or sale of items consisting of printed
matter, pictures, slides, records, audio tape, videotape, or motion picture
film if such building or portion of a building excludes any minor by reason of
age, and if a substantial or significant portion of such items are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the presentation, display,
depiction, or description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”.
      ADULT USE; CABARET. A building or portion of a building used for
providing dancing or other live entertainment, if such building or portion of a
building excludes minors by virtue of age and if such dancing or live
entertainment is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
presentation, display, depiction, or description of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
      ADULT USE; COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A companionship establishment
which excludes minors by reason of age and which provides the service of
listening to or engaging in conversation, talk, or discussion between an
employee of the establishment and a customer, if such service is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”.
      ADULT USE; CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A conversation/rap parlor which
excludes minors by reason of age and which provides the service of listening to
or engaging in conversation, talk, or discussion, if such service is
distinguished by or characterized by an emphasis on “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
      ADULT USE; HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sports club which excludes minors
by reason of age and such club is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
      ADULT USE; HOTEL/MOTEL. A hotel or motel which excludes minors by reason
of age and wherein material is presented which is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matters depicting, describing or relating to
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
      ADULT USE; MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health club
which excludes minors by reason of age, and which regularly provides the
service of massage if such service is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
      ADULT USE; MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a
building with a capacity of less than 50 persons used for presenting material
if such building or portion of a building excludes minors by reason of age and
if such material is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” for observation by patrons
therein.
      ADULT USE; MODELING STUDIOS. An establishment which excludes minors by
reason of age and whose major business is the provision to customers of figure
models who are provided with the intent of providing sexual stimulation or
sexual gratification to such customers and who engage in “specified sexual
activities” or exhibit “specified anatomical areas” while being observed,
painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn, sculpted, photographed, or otherwise
depicted by such customers.
      ADULT USE; MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein minors are excluded by reason of age, and where
coin operated or slug operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically
controlled or operated still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons
per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
      ADULT USE; MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a building
with a capacity of more than 50 persons used for presenting material if such
building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors by
reason of age or if such material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” for
observations by patrons therein.
      ADULT USE; NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which excludes minors by reason
of age, and which has as a principal activity the sale of devices which
stimulate human genitals or devices which are designed for sexual stimulation.
      ADULT USE; SAUNA/STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or portion of
a building used for providing a sauna, steam bath or heat bathing room used for
the purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam or
hot air as a cleaning, relaxing, or reducing agent, if  such building or
portion of a building excludes minors by reason of age or if the service
provided by the steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas”.
      ADULT USES. Adult uses include, but are not limited to, adult bookstores,
adult motion picture theaters, adult picture rental, adult mini-motion picture
theaters, adult massage parlors, adult steam room/bathhouse/sauna facilities,
adult companionship establishments, adult rap/conversation parlors, adult
health/sport clubs, adult cabarets, adult novelty businesses, adult motion
picture arcades, adult modeling studios, adult hotel/motels, adult body
painting studios, and other premises, enterprises, establishments, businesses
or places open to some or all members of the public, at or in which there is an
emphasis on the presentation, display, depiction or description of “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” which are capable of being
seen by members of the public. This definition does not apply to the practice
of medicine, surgery, osteopathy, chiropractic, physical therapy or podiatry by
state licensed registered persons. Activities classified as obscene are defined
by M.S. § 617.241 and are not lawful and are not included in the definitions of
adult uses.
      ADULT USES; ACCESSORY. A use, business, or establishment having 10% or
less of its stock in trade or floor area allocated to, or 20% or less of its
gross revenues derived from, the sale or rental of adult merchandise.
      ADULT USES; PRINCIPAL. A use, business, or establishment meeting any of
the definitions of adult uses excepting those uses that meet the definition of
adult use; accessory.
      COUNTY. The County of Carver, Minnesota, or any department or
representative of the county who is authorized by this chapter or otherwise by
the County Board to represent the county in the administration or enforcement
of this chapter.
      COUNTY BOARD. The Carver County Board of Commissioners or its designee.
      DEPARTMENT. The Carver County Land Management Department.
      LIQUOR LICENSE. Any of the following licenses issued or approved pursuant
to M.S.Chapter 340A.
      MINOR. Person(s) under 18 years of age.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
         (a)   Human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, anus, or female breast
(s) below a point immediately above the top of the areola, unless completely
and opaquely covered.
         (b)   Erect penis, even if completely and opaquely covered.
      SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.
         (a)   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of
obscenity or illegal pornography; sale, distribution or display of harmful
material to a minor; sexual performance by a child; possession or distribution
of child pornography; lewdness; sexual battery; rape; indecent exposure;
indecency with a child; engaging in organized criminal activity relating to a
sexually oriented business; sexual assault; molestation of a child; or
distribution of a controlled substance; criminal attempt, conspiracy or
solicitation to commit any of the foregoing offenses or offenses in other
jurisdictions that, if the acts would have constituted any of the foregoing
offenses if the acts had been committed in Minnesota; for which:
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
            2.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a gross misdemeanor or felony offense; or
            3.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24 month
period.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
         (a)   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship, and any of the following sexual-oriented acts or conduct:
analingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty;
         (b)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual
stimulation, arousal, or tumescence;
         (c)   Use of human or animal ejaculation or ejaculate, sodomy, oral
copulation, coitus, or masturbation;
         (d)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or female breast(s);
         (e)   Situations involving a person or person, any of whom are nude,
clad in undergarments, or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged
in activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding, or other
physical constraint of any such persons;
         (f)   Erotic or nude touching, fondling or other sexually oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; and/or
         (g)   Human erection, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation.
(Ord. 66-2010, passed 4-13-10)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 113.25 ADULT USE LICENSE AND CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall own or operate an adult use; principal without first
having secured an adult use license and a conditional use permit from Carver
County pursuant to this chapter and
Chapter 152 of the Carver County Code.
   (B)   Application. The application for issuance of an adult use license (and
renewal) shall be submitted on forms provided by Carver County Land Management
and shall include:
      (1)   If the applicant is an individual: the name, residence, phone
number and birth date of the applicant. If the applicant is a partnership: the
name, residence, phone number, and birth date of each general and limited
partner. If the applicant is a corporation: the name, residence, phone numbers,
and birth dates of all persons holding more than 5% of the issued outstanding
stock of the corporation;
      (2)   The name, address, phone number, and birth date of the operator and
manager of such operation, if different from the owner(s);
      (3)   The address and legal description of the premises where the adult
establishment is to be located;
      (4)   Proof of ownership interest in the land or premises where the adult
establishment is to be located or a signed purchase agreement or other
authorization from the owner(s) of the land or premises;
      (5)   A statement detailing each specified criminal activity, as defined
in this chapter, for which persons required to be disclosed in division (B)(1)
of this section, operator, or manager above have been convicted and whether or
not the applicant has ever applied for or held a license to operate a similar
type business in any other community(s);
      (6)   The activities and types of business to be conducted;
      (7)   The hours of operation;
      (8)   Provisions to be utilized to restrict access by minors; and
      (9)   A building plan of the premises detailing all internal operations
and activities.
   (C)   Responsibility to obtain other permits/licenses. The granting of any
permit or license pursuant to the requirements of this chapter, or other
applicable Carver County ordinances, shall not relieve the applicants of their
responsibility to obtain any required state or federal permits.
(Ord. 66-2010, passed 4-13-10) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.26 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Submittal of fees. Each application for an adult use license shall be
submitted to the Land Management Department and shall be accompanied by payment
in full of the required fee for the adult use license.
   (B)   Fee. The fee for the adult use license application and adult use
license renewal application shall be as detailed in the fee schedule
established by the County Board. The fee may be adjusted from time to time by
Board action.
   (C)   Refund of fee. If any application for a license is rejected, the
license fee shall not be refunded. No part of the fee paid for any license
issued under this chapter shall be refunded.
(Ord. 66-2010, passed 4-13-10) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.27 GRANTING OF ADULT USE LICENSE.
   (A)   Investigation by sheriff. The Carver County Sheriff and the Department
have authority to investigate all facts set out in the application. The
applicant(s), operator, and each owner of the establishment shall be subject to
a criminal history background investigation by the Sheriff or his or her
designee. Cost of the criminal history investigations shall be borne by the
applicant according to the Carver County fee schedule. The application for the
adult use license shall not be considered complete until all required
information has been furnished, the investigation has been completed by the
Sheriff, and a report provided to the Department by the Sheriff.
   (B)   Granting of adult use license. Upon receipt of a completed application
pursuant to division (A) of this section, the Department shall forward its
findings on the application to the County Board. The County Board shall grant
or deny the application in a timeframe so as to comply with M.S. § 15.99. The
County Board shall deny the application if any of the ineligibility conditions
in §
113.28 exist, or if the proposed location does not meet the requirements set
forth in §
113.29. If the application is granted, a provisional adult use license will be
issued by the County Board. The issuance of a provisional adult use license
does not automatically result in a conditional use permit being issued, and the
applicant must follow the procedures set forth in
Chapter 152 in order to obtain a conditional use permit. The County Board shall
change the provisional adult use license to an adult use license immediately
following the granting of the conditional use permit if all requirements have
been met.
   (C)   Expiration of provisional adult use license. A provisional adult use
license shall expire 120 days from the date the license is granted unless an
extension is granted by the County Board.
   (D)   Adult use license is non-transferable. The provisional adult use
license and adult use license shall be issued only to the applicant and only
for the premises described in the application. No more than one adult use
premises may be listed on each application. No license may be transferred to
another premises or person without the written approval of the County Board. If
the licensee is a partnership or corporation, a change in the identity of any
of the general or limited partners or a change in persons holding more 5% or
more of the issued and outstanding stock of the corporation shall be deemed to
be a transfer of the license.
(Ord. 66-2010, passed 4-13-10) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.28 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR ADULT USE LICENSE.
   A license shall not be issued to any person:
   (A)   Under 21 years of age;
   (B)   Who is overdue in payments to a city, county, state, or federal
government of taxes, fees, fines or penalties, or charges for municipal
services and utilities assessed against him/her or imposed upon him or her;
   (C)   Who has been convicted of a specified criminal activity, as defined in
this chapter;
   (D)   Who is not the owner of the establishment for which the license is
issued;
   (E)   To any applicant who is acting as an agent for an individual who would
be disqualified pursuant to the criteria in this section;
   (F)   Who has not paid the required investigation/licensing fees required by
this chapter;
   (G)   No license shall be granted for an adult use business on any premises
where a licensee has been convicted of a violation of this chapter, or where
any license hereunder has been revoked for cause, until one year has elapsed
after such conviction or revocation; or
   (H)   No adult use license shall be granted for any adult use business which
is not in compliance with the county’s land use regulations, or fire, health,
and safety codes and all provisions of federal and state law.
(Ord. 66-2010, passed 4-13-10) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.29 PERMITTED LOCATIONS FOR ADULT USE; PRINCIPAL.
   (A)   Adult use; principal shall only be allowed in the rural service
districts as defined in
Chapter 152.
   (B)   Adult use; principal shall be located at least 1,000 lineal feet as
measured in a straight line from the nearest point of the business premises and
associated parking lot of the adult use; principal to the nearest structure
associated with:
      (1)   Any single or multiple family residence or farmstead;
      (2)   Any licensed daycare facility;
      (3)   Any public or private educational facility classified as an
elementary, junior high, or senior high school;
      (4)   Any hotel or motel;
      (5)   Any public park or trails system;
      (6)   Any nursing home;
      (7)   Any church or church related organization;
      (8)   Another adult use business. No adult use; principal shall be
located in the same building or upon the same property as another adult use;
principal; or
      (9)   Any establishment that has a liquor license or serves alcoholic
beverages.
   (C)   All adult uses shall meet the required access, parking, screening,
lighting, and other relevant site related criteria as set forth in the Carver
County Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 66-2010, passed 4-13-10) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.30 CONDITIONS OF ADULT USE LICENSE.
   (A)   All licensed premises shall have the license posted in a conspicuous
place at all times.
   (B)   No minor shall be permitted on the premises.
   (C)   Any designated inspection officer of the county shall have the right
to enter, inspect, and search the premises of a licensee during business hours.
A licensee’s knowing or intentional refusal to permit such an inspection shall
constitute a violation of this section for purposes of license denial,
suspension, and/or revocation. This section shall be narrowly construed by the
county to authorize reasonable inspections of the licensed premises pursuant to
this chapter, but not to authorize an excessive pattern of inspections or
violations of constitutional rights.
   (D)   No adult goods or material shall be offered, sold, transferred,
conveyed, given, displayed, or bartered to any minor.
   (E)   The licensee must keep itemized written records of all transactions
involving the sale or rental of all items or merchandise for at least one year
after the transaction. At a minimum, those records must describe the date of
the transaction, a description of the transaction, the purchase or rental
price, and a detailed description of the item or merchandise that is being
purchased or rented. These written records must be provided to the Department
or the Department’s designee(s) upon request.
   (F)   The licensee must cover or otherwise arrange all windows, doors, and
apertures to prevent any person outside the licensed premises from viewing any
items or merchandise inside the premises depicting “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
   (G)   All adult use businesses shall prominently display a sign at the
entrance and located within two feet of the door opening device of the adult
use business or section of the establishment devoted to adult use which states:
“This business sells or displays material containing adult themes. Persons
under eighteen (18) years of age shall not enter”.
(Ord. 66-2010, passed 4-13-10) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.31 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Expiration. Each license shall expire one year from the date the
license is granted and may be renewed only by making application as provided in
§§
113.25 through
113.27. Application for renewal must be submitted to the Department at least 60
days before the expiration date.
   (B)   Denial of renewal. When the County Board denies the renewal of a
license, the applicant shall not be issued a license for one year from the date
of denial. The license applicant may appeal the decision to a court of law
within 30 days of the final decision of the County Board or its designee. Any
decision adverse to the licensee shall be deemed final immediately upon its
issuance, but shall not take effect for 30 days. If, subsequent to denial, the
County Board finds that the basis for denial of the renewal license has been
corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90 days
have elapsed since the date denial became final.
(Ord. 66-2010, passed 4-13-10) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.32 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Suspension. The County Board may issue a letter of intent to suspend,
for up to 30 days, an adult use license if a licensee knowingly commits, or
allows an employee to commit, a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Revocation. The County Board may issue a letter of intent to revoke an
adult use business license, if a licensee knowingly commits, or allows an
employee to commit, three or more violations of this chapter within a one year
period, or if one or more of the following occurs:
      (1)   A licensee or an employee of the licensee has committed fraud, or a
material misrepresentation in securing the adult use license;
      (2)   A licensee or an employee of the licensee has knowingly allowed
possession, use, or sale of controlled substances, including alcohol, on the
premises;
      (3)   A licensee or an employee of the licensee has engaged in or allowed
prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee or an employee knowingly operated the adult use business
during a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended; and/or
      (5)   A licensee has been convicted of a specified criminal activity.
(Ord. 66-2010, passed 4-13-10)
§ 113.33 HEARING; DENIAL, SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE; APPEAL.
   (A)   Written notice. Denial, revocation or suspension shall be preceded by
written notice to the applicant or licensee and a public hearing before the
County Board or its designee. The notification shall be directed to the most
current business address or other mailing address on file with the Department
for the applicant or licensee and shall state the grounds for which a denial,
revocation, or suspension is being requested. The notice shall be delivered by
certified mail or personal service.
   (B)   Hearing. Within 20 days of the written notice to the applicant or
licensee, the County Board shall conduct a hearing for the purpose of
determining whether to deny, revoke, or suspend the license. Applicant or
licensee may be represented by counsel and may submit all relevant evidence or
arguments. The County Board or its designee shall issue a written decision
within ten days after the hearing, which decision shall deny, suspend, revoke,
or grant the license, and state the reasons for such action. Any decision
adverse to the applicant or licensee shall be deemed final immediately upon its
issuance, but shall not take effect for 30 days.
   (C)   Appeal of suspension or revocation. If the County Board or its
designee orders the suspension or revocation, the applicant or licensee may
appeal the decision to a court of law within 30 days of the final decision of
the County Board or its designee and the licensee may continue in business
until the conclusion of the action.
   (D)   Appeal of denial. If the County Board or its designee orders the
denial of a new adult use license, the license applicant may appeal the
decision to a court of law within 30 days of the final decision of the County
Board or its designee. The applicant may not commence doing business unless the
action is concluded in its favor.
(Ord. 66-2010, passed 4-13-10) Penalty, see §
113.99
ADULT USE OPERATIONAL RESTRICTIONS
§ 113.45 ADULT USE; PRINCIPAL.
   (A)   General provisions. Adult uses as defined in §
113.12(C) shall be subject to the following general provisions.
      (1)   An adult use which does not qualify as an accessory use pursuant to
§
113.46 shall be classified as an adult use; principal.
      (2)   No person(s) under 18 years of age shall be permitted in any adult
use; principal premises, enterprise, establishment, business or place.
      (3)   No liquor license shall be issued to any adult use; principal.
      (4)   No adult use related premises, enterprise, establishment, business
or place shall allow or permit the sale or service of set ups to mix alcoholic
drinks. No alcoholic beverages shall be consumed on the premises of such
premises, enterprise, establishment, business, or place.
      (5)   Activities classified as obscene as defined in M.S. § 617.241 are
not permitted and are prohibited. In no instance shall the application or
interpretation of this chapter be construed to allow an activity otherwise
prohibited by law.
      (6)   Adult use; principal shall be prohibited from locating in any
building which is also utilized for residential purposes.
      (7)   Any adult use; principal having available for customers, patrons,
or employees, a booth, room or cubicle for the private viewing of any
“specified anatomical areas” or “specified sexual activities” must comply with
the following requirements:
         (a)   Each booth, room or cubicle shall be without doors and the
occupant must be visible at all times;
         (b)   Only one person may be in a booth, room, or cubicle at a time;
         (c)   Walls separating booths, rooms, or cubicles must be such that
the occupants cannot engage in sexual activity;
         (d)   Each booth, room, or cubicle must be kept clean and sanitary;
and
         (e)   Minimum lighting requirements in accordance with the Carver
County Code of Ordinances must be maintained;
      (8)   Illumination of the premises exterior shall be adequate to observe
the location and activities of all persons on the exterior premises; and
      (9)   The owner/operator shall hire and employ their own security
personnel who shall maintain orderly conduct at such adult use; Principal.
These employees are not required to be licensed peace officers.
   (B)   Hours of operation. No adult use shall be open to the public from the
hours of 12:00 midnight to 10:00 a.m. weekdays and Saturday, nor between 12:00
midnight and 12:00 noon on Sunday.
   (C)   Sign regulation. Adult use; principal shall adhere to the following
sign regulations in addition to those set forth in
Chapter 154 of the Carver County Code:
      (1)   Sign messages shall be generic in nature and shall only identify
the name and type of business;
      (2)   Signs shall not be obscene and/or graphic depictions of “specified
anatomical areas” or “specified sexual activities” as defined by this chapter;
and
      (3)   Signs shall be limited to the size, location, and number of signs
permitted in the district in which the use is located.
   (D)   Adult use; cabaret regulations. The following additional restrictions
apply to adult use; cabarets.
      (1)   No person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity shall
advertise, or cause to be advertised, an adult cabaret without a valid adult
use license.
      (2)   An adult use licensee shall maintain and retain for a period of two
years the names, addresses, and ages of all persons engaged, hired, or employed
as dancers or performers by the licensee.
      (3)   No owner, operator, or manager of an adult cabaret shall permit or
allow any dancer or other live entertainer to perform nude unless as provided
in divisions (D)(6) and (7) of this section.
      (4)   No patron or other person other than a dancer or live entertainer,
as provided in divisions (D)(6) and (7) of this section, shall be nude in an
adult cabaret.
      (5)   No dancer, live entertainer, or performer shall be under 18 years
of age.
      (6)   All dancing shall occur on a platform intended for that purpose
which is raised at least two feet above the level of the floor.
      (7)   No dancer or performer shall perform or dance closer than ten feet
from any patron unless such dancer or performer is enclosed behind a floor to
ceiling glass.
      (8)   No dancer shall fondle or caress any patron and no patron shall
fondle or caress any dancer or performer.
      (9)   No person under 18 years of age shall be admitted to an adult
cabaret.
      (10)   No patron shall pay or give any gratuity directly to any dancer or
performer.
(Ord. 66-2010, passed 4-13-10) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.46 ADULT USE; ACCESSORY.
   (A)   Permitted locations for accessory adult uses. Adult use; accessory
shall be permitted in the rural service districts as defined in
Chapter 152 at establishments where there is an existing permitted retail
establishment. Adult use; accessory shall conform to the following provisions:
      (1)   A use, business, or establishment having 10% or less of its stock
in trade or floor area allocated to, or 20% or less of its gross revenues
derived from, the sale or rental of adult merchandise;
      (2)   Not include any adult use activity except the sale or rental of
adult merchandise; and
      (3)   Adult use; accessory shall be prohibited from locating in any
building which is also utilized for residential purposes.
   (B)   Separation of areas. Adult use; accessory shall be restricted from,
and prohibit access to minors, by physically separating the following and
similar items from areas of general public access.
      (1)   Movie rental display areas shall be restricted from general view
and shall be located within a separate room, the access of which is in clear
view of, and under the control of, the person(s) responsible for the operation.
All adult use; accessory shall prominently display a sign at the entrance and
located within 2 feet of the door opening device of the adult use; accessory
establishment or section of the establishment devoted to adult use which
states: “Persons under eighteen (18) years of age shall not enter”.
      (2)   Magazines or publications containing “specified anatomical areas”
or “specified sexual activities” shall not be physically accessible to minors
and shall be covered with a wrapper or other means to prevent display of any
material other than the publication title.
   (C)   Advertising. Adult use; accessory shall be prohibited from both
internal and external advertising and signing of adult materials and products.
(Ord. 66-2010, passed 4-13-10) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation a misdemeanor. Any person who fails to comply with the terms
of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Injunctive relief. In the event of a violation or threat of a
violation of this chapter, the county may institute appropriate actions or
proceedings, including injunctive relief to prevent, restrain, correct or abate
such violations or threatened violations. If a person fails to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, the county may recover fees and costs, including
costs incurred by the county for corrective action. Such fees and costs may be
certified by the court as a special tax against the real property.
(Ord. 66-2010, passed 4-13-10)
CHAPTER 114: CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES
Section
Administration
   
114.01   Findings and purpose
   
114.02   Authority and jurisdiction
   
114.03   Enforcement
   
114.04   Definitions
Registration of Cannabis Retail Businesses
   
114.15   Registration of cannabis retail businesses required
   
114.16   Compliance checks prior to retail registration
   
114.17   Registration and application procedure
   
114.18   Renewal of registration
   
114.19   Suspension of registration
Limiting of Cannabis Retail Businesses
   
114.30   Limit on number of businesses
   
114.31   Initial limit and increase
   
114.32   Limit for cities and townships that transfer cannabis retail
registration authority to county
   
114.33   Limit for cities and townships that do not transfer cannabis retail
registration authority to county
 
   
114.99   Penalty
ADMINISTRATION
§ 114.01 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to implement the provisions of M.S. Chapter
342, which authorizes the county to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare of the county residents by limiting the number of cannabis retail
businesses within the legal boundaries of the county. The county finds and
concludes that the proposed provisions are in the public interest and for the
public good.
(Ord. 111-2025, passed 7-25-25)
§ 114.02 AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The county has the authority to adopt this chapter pursuant to M.S. §
342.22, regarding the local registration and enforcement requirements of state-
licensed cannabis retail businesses.
   (B)   This chapter shall be applicable within the legal boundaries of the
county.
(Ord. 111-2025, passed 7-25-25)
§ 114.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   The County Election and Licensing Department is responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter. Unless otherwise indicated, any
violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements constitutes a misdemeanor and is punishable as defined by law.
Violations of this chapter can occur regardless of whether a permit is required
for a regulated activity listed in this chapter.
(Ord. 111-2025, passed 7-25-25)
§ 114.04 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise noted in this section, words and phrases contained in M.S.
§ 342.01 and the rules promulgated pursuant to any of these acts shall have the
same meanings in this chapter.
   CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESS. A retail location and the retail location(s) of a
mezzo businesses with a retail operations endorsement, microbusinesses with a
retail operations endorsement, medical combination businesses operating a
retail location, excluding lower-potency hemp edible retailers.
   CANNABIS RETAILER. Any person, partnership, firm, corporation, or
association, foreign or domestic, selling cannabis product to a consumer and
not for the purpose of resale in any form.
   OFFICE OF CANNABIS MANAGEMENT. Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management,
referred to as OCM in this chapter.
   PRELIMINARY LICENSE APPROVAL. OCM pre-approval for a cannabis business
license for applicants who qualify under M.S. § 342.17.
   RETAIL REGISTRATION. An approved registration issued by the County Elections
and Licensing Department to a state-licensed cannabis retail business.
   STATE LICENSE. An approved license issued by the Minnesota Office of
Cannabis Management to a cannabis retail business.
(Ord. 111-2025, passed 7-25-25)
REGISTRATION OF CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES
§ 114.15 REGISTRATION OF CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES REQUIRED.
   No individual or entity may operate a state-licensed cannabis retail
business within the county without first registering with the County Elections
and Licensing Department. Any state-licensed cannabis retail business that
sells to a customer or patient without valid retail registration shall incur a
civil penalty of $1,000 for each violation.
(Ord. 111-2025, passed 7-25-25) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.16 COMPLIANCE CHECKS PRIOR TO RETAIL REGISTRATION.
   Pursuant to M.S. Chapter 342, within 30 days of receiving a copy of a state
license application from OCM, the applicable zoning authority shall certify on
a form provided by OCM whether a proposed cannabis retail business complies
with local zoning ordinances and, if applicable, whether the proposed business
complies with the state fire code and building code.
(Ord. 111-2025, passed 7-25-25)
§ 114.17 REGISTRATION AND APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Fees. The county shall not charge an application fee. A registration
fee, as established in the county fee schedule, shall be charged to applicants
depending on the type of retail business license.
   (B)   Application submittal. The County Elections and Licensing Department
shall issue a retail registration to a state-licensed cannabis retail business
that adheres to the requirements of M.S. § 342.22.
      (1)   An applicant for a retail registration shall fill out an
application form, as provided by the County Elections and Licensing Department,
which shall include, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Full name of the property owner and applicant;
         (b)   Address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant;
         (c)   The address and parcel ID for the property which the retail
registration is sought;
         (d)   Certification that the applicant complies with the requirements
of local ordinances established pursuant to M.S. § 342.13; and
         (e)   Certification (provided by County Auditor) that the applicant is
current on all property taxes and assessments at the location where the retail
establishment is located.
      (2)   The applicant shall include with the form:
         (a)   The registration fee as required in division (A) above;
         (b)   A copy of a valid state license or written notice of OCM license
preapproval; if operator is a business entity, evidence of business
registration with the Secretary of State;
         (c)   Evidence of adequate coverage by commercial liability insurance,
which shall meet the following minimum limits of liability:
            1.   One million and five hundred thousand dollars each occurrence;
            2.   Three million dollar general aggregate; and
            3.   Three million dollar products and completed operations
aggregate.
      (3)   Once an application is considered complete, the County Elections
and Licensing Department shall inform the applicant as such, process the
application fees, and forward the application to the County Board of
Commissioners for approval or denial.
      (4)   The registration fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
   (C)   Application approval.
      (1)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application shall not be
approved if the cannabis retail business would exceed the maximum number of
registered cannabis retail businesses permitted under §§
114.30 through
114.33.
      (2)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application shall not be
approved or renewed if the applicant is unable to meet the requirements of this
chapter.
      (3)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application that meets
the requirements of this chapter shall be approved.
   (D)   Annual compliance checks. Law enforcement shall conduct at minimum one
unannounced age verification compliance check at least once per calendar year.
Age verification compliance checks shall involve persons at least 17 years of
age but under the age of 21 who, with the prior written consent of a parent or
guardian if the person is under the age of 18, attempt to purchase adult-use
cannabis flower and products under the direct supervision of a law enforcement
officer or an employee of the local unit of government. Any failures under this
section must be reported to the Office of Cannabis Management.
   (E)   Location change. A state-licensed cannabis retail business shall be
required to submit a new application for registration under division (B) above
if it seeks to move to a new location still within the legal boundaries of the
county.
(Ord. 111-2025, passed 7-25-25) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.18 RENEWAL OF REGISTRATION.
   The County Elections and Licensing Department shall renew an annual
registration of a state-licensed cannabis retail business at the same time OCM
renews the cannabis retail business’s license. A state-licensed cannabis retail
business shall apply to renew registration on a form established by the county.
A cannabis retail registration issued under this chapter shall not be
transferred.
   (A)   Renewal fees. The County Elections and Licensing Department may charge
a renewal fee for the registration starting at the second renewal, as
established in the county fee schedule.
   (B)   Renewal application. The application for renewal of a retail
registration shall include but is not limited to all items required under §
114.17(B).
   (C)   History of compliance. By way of its renewal application, the
applicant shall consent to the release by OCM to the county of the state’s
historical compliance records related to applicant’s business. Any records
related to compliance from OCM or from county-performed compliance checks shall
be taken into account when renewal is considered.
(Ord. 111-2025, passed 7-25-25)
§ 114.19 SUSPENSION OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   When suspension is warranted. The County Elections and Licensing
Department may suspend a cannabis retail business’s registration if it violates
any city ordinance or county ordinance or state or federal law or poses an
immediate threat to the health or safety of the public. The County Elections
and Licensing Department shall immediately notify the cannabis retail business
in writing the grounds for the suspension.
   (B)   Notification to OCM. The County Elections and Licensing Department
shall immediately notify the OCM in writing the grounds for the suspension. OCM
will provide the County Elections and Licensing Department and the cannabis
business retailer a response to the complaint within seven calendar days and
perform any necessary inspections within 30 calendar days.
   (C)   Length of suspension. The suspension of a cannabis retail business
registration may be for up to 30 calendar days or for the period OCM suspends
the license, whichever is longer. The business may not make sales to customers
while their registration is suspended. The County Elections and Licensing
Department may reinstate a registration if it determines that the violations
have been resolved.
(Ord. 111-2025, passed 7-25-25)
LIMITING OF CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES
§ 114.30 LIMIT ON NUMBER OF BUSINESSES.
   The county shall limit the number of cannabis retail businesses to no fewer
than one registration for every 12,500 population.
(Ord. 111-2025, passed 7-25-25)
§ 114.31 INITIAL LIMIT AND INCREASE.
   The initial overall number of cannabis retail businesses in the county shall
be limited to ten based on the county’s 2023 Met Council population estimate of
113,332 (published July 2024). When the county’s population estimate is between
137,501 and 150,000, the overall limit of cannabis retail businesses in the
county will automatically increase to 11.
(Ord. 111-2025, passed 7-25-25)
§ 114.32 LIMIT FOR CITIES AND TOWNSHIPS THAT TRANSFER CANNABIS RETAIL
REGISTRATION AUTHORITY TO COUNTY.
   For cities and townships that transfer cannabis retail registration
authority to the county, the County Election and Licensing Department shall
limit the number of cannabis retail business within each jurisdiction based on
the jurisdiction’s current Met Council population estimate. For example, a
limit of one cannabis retail business for a jurisdiction with less than 12,500
population (all Carver County Townships and with exceptions all cities in the
county); limit of two for a population between 12,501 and 25,000 (i.e.,
Waconia); and limit of three for a population between 25,001 and 36,500 (i.e.,
Chanhassen and Chaska).
(Ord. 111-2025, passed 7-25-25)
§ 114.33 LIMIT FOR CITIES AND TOWNSHIPS THAT DO NOT TRANSFER CANNABIS RETAIL
REGISTRATION AUTHORITY TO COUNTY.
   For cities and townships that do not transfer cannabis retail registration
authority to the county, the number of cannabis retail businesses within their
jurisdiction shall not be limited by this chapter but will be counted towards
the county’s overall limit calculated in §
114.31.
(Ord. 111-2025, passed 7-25-25)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Subject to M.S. § 342.22, subd. 5(e), the County Elections and Licensing
Department may impose a civil penalty, as specified in the county fee schedule,
for registration violations, not to exceed $2,000.
(Ord. 111-2025, passed 7-25-25)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: CURFEW
Section
   
130.01   Purpose and findings
   
130.02   Authority
   
130.03   Definitions
   
130.04   Prohibited acts
   
130.05   Exceptions
   
130.06   Enforcement
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners finds that there has been an increase in
juvenile violence and crime by juveniles in recent years.
   (B)   Juveniles are particularly susceptible by their lack of maturity and
experience to participate in unlawful activities and to be victims of older
perpetrators of crime.
   (C)   Because of the foregoing, special and extenuating circumstances
presently exist within the county that require special regulation of juveniles
within the county in order to protect them and other persons during the
nighttime hours, to aid in crime prevention, to promote parental supervision
and authority over minors and to decrease juvenile crime rates.
   (D)   In accordance with prevailing community standards, this chapter serves
to regulate the conduct of minors in public places during nighttime hours, to
be effectively and consistently enforced for the protection of juveniles from
each other and from other persons, in public places during nighttime hours, for
the enforcement of parental control of, authority over and responsibility for
their children, for the protection of the general public from nighttime
mischief by juveniles, for the reduction in the incidents of juvenile criminal
activities, for the furtherance of family responsibility and for the public
good, safety and welfare.
   (E)   It is the intent of the County Board to review and evaluate the need
and effect of nighttime curfew for juveniles set forth in this chapter on the
incidents of juvenile criminal activity and protection of juveniles against
criminal activity.
(Ord. 25, passed 2-1-96)
§ 130.02 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to M.S. § 145A.05(7)(a), as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 25, passed 2-1-96)
§ 130.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED ADULT. Any person who is at least 18 years of age and authorized
by a parent or guardian to have custody and control of a juvenile.
   COUNTY BOARD. The Board of Commissioners of the county.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to a
fire, a natural disaster or automobile accident or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   JUVENILE. A person under the age of 18 years. The term does not include
persons under 18 who are married or have been legally emancipated.
   PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a juvenile:
      (1)   As natural, adoptive parent or step-parent;
      (2)   As a legal guardian; or
      (3)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the
court.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to streets, highways,
roadways, parks, public recreation, entertainment or civic facilities, schools
and the common areas of hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
(Ord. 25, passed 2-1-96)
§ 130.04 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a juvenile under the age of 12 to be present in any
public place within the county:
      (1)   Any time between 9:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday or Thursday and 5:00 a.m. of the following day; and/or
      (2)   Any time between 10:00 p.m. on any Friday or Saturday and 5:00 a.m.
the following day.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any juvenile age 12 to 14 years to be present in
any public place within the county:
      (1)   Any time between 10:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday or Thursday and 5:00 a.m. of the following day; and/or
      (2)   Any time between 11:00 p.m. on any Friday or Saturday and 5:00 a.m.
on the following day.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any juvenile age 15 to 17 years to be in any public
place within the county:
      (1)   Any time between 11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday or Thursday and 5:00 a.m. of the following day; and/or
      (2)   Any time between 12:01 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on any Saturday or
Sunday.
   (D)   It is unlawful for a parent or authorized adult of a juvenile to
knowingly, or through negligent supervision, to permit the juvenile to be in
any public place within the county during the hours prohibited by this section
under circumstances not constituting an exception to this chapter. The term
KNOWINGLY includes knowledge which a parent or authorized adult shall
reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a juvenile under
the person’s care.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person operating or in charge of any place of
amusement or refreshment which is open to the public to knowingly permit any
juvenile to be in the place during the hours prohibited by this section under
circumstances not constituting an exception to this chapter. The term PERSON
OPERATING shall mean any individual, firm, association, partnership or
corporation operating, managing or conducting any establishment. The term
includes the members or partners of an association or partnership and the
officers of a corporation.
(Ord. 25, passed 2-1-96)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The following constitute valid exceptions to the operation of the
curfew:
      (1)   If a juvenile is accompanied by his or her parent or an authorized
adult;
      (2)   If a juvenile is involved in, or attempting to remedy, alleviate or
respond to an emergency;
      (3)   If the juvenile is engaged in a lawful employment activity, or is
going to or returning home from his or her place of employment;
      (4)   If the juvenile is attending an official school, religious or other
social or recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a city or
the county, a civic organization or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the juvenile;
      (5)   If the juvenile is going to or returning home from, without any
detour or stop, the official school, religious or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by a city or the county, a civic
organization or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
juvenile;
      (6)   If the juvenile is on an errand as directed by his or her parent,
without any detour or stop;
      (7)   If the juvenile is engaged in interstate travel;
      (8)   If the juvenile is on the public right-of-way, boulevard or
sidewalk abutting the juvenile’s residence or abutting the neighboring
property, structure or residence;
      (9)   If the juvenile is exercising First Amendment rights protected by
the United States Constitution, or those similar rights protected by Article I
of the State Constitution, such as free exercise of religion, freedom of speech
and the right of assembly; or
      (10)   If the juvenile is homeless or uses a public or semi-public place
as his or her usual place of abode.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under §
130.04 that:
      (1)   The owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly
notified the Police Department or Sheriff’s Department that a juvenile was
present on the premises of the establishment during curfew hours; and/or
      (2)   The owner, operator or employee reasonably and in good faith relied
upon a juvenile’s representations of proof of age. Proof of age may be
established pursuant to M.S. § 340A.503(6), as it may be amended from time to
time, or other verifiable means, including, but not limited to school
identification cards and birth certificates.
(Ord. 25, passed 2-1-96)
§ 130.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a police
officer or Sheriff’s Deputy shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason
for being in a public place.
   (B)   The officer/deputy shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under
this section unless the officer/deputy reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that no exception set forth in §
130.05 is applicable.
(Ord. 25, passed 2-1-96)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of this chapter will be prosecuted and will be subject to
penalties.
   (B)   Violation of §
130.04(D) or (E) is a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 25, passed 2-1-96)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
         
151.   SUBDIVISIONS
            
APPENDIX: ROAD STANDARDS
         
152.   ZONING CODE
         
153.   WATER RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
            
APPENDIX A: VOLUME AND WATER QUALITY CALCULATIONS
            
APPENDIX B: MAINTENANCE
         
154.   SIGN REGULATIONS
         
155.   ILLICIT STORMWATER DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION
 
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   State Building Code adopted
   
150.02   Application, administration, and enforcement
   
150.03   Fees
   
150.04   Violations and penalties
   
150.05   Separability; supremacy
Conveyance of Titles
   
150.30   Purpose
   
150.31   Instruments requiring approval
   
150.32   Procedure
   
150.33   Recording prohibited
   
150.34   Exclusions
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The currently enforced Minnesota State Building Code (Residential and
Commercial), established pursuant to M.S. §§ 326B.101 to 326B.197, as amended
from time to time, is hereby adopted as the building code (hereinafter “code”)
for the county. The Minnesota State Building Code is hereby incorporated in
this subchapter as if fully set out herein.
(Ord. 52, passed 11-25-03; Am. Ord. 63-2008, passed 2-26-08; Am. Res. 93-22,
passed 11-15-22)
§ 150.02 APPLICATION, ADMINISTRATION, AND ENFORCEMENT.
   This code shall be effect in the unincorporated areas of the county. The
Land Management Department shall be the Building Code Department of the county.
This code shall be enforced by a Minnesota Certified Building Official
designated by the county to administer the code.
(Ord. 52, passed 11-25-03; Am. Ord. 62-2007, passed 12-11-07; Am. Res. 93-22,
passed 11-15-22)
§ 150.03 FEES.
   The issuance of permits and the collection of fees shall be as follows.
   (A)   Fees shall be assessed for work governed by this code in accordance
with the fee schedule adopted by the county and through the State Building
Code. In addition, a surcharge fee shall be collected on all permits issued for
work governed by this code.
   (B)   An investigation fee, in addition to the permit fee, shall be
collected whenever any work for which a permit is required by this code has
been commenced without first obtaining the permit. The payment of the
investigation fee shall not exempt any person from compliance with all other
provisions of this code nor from any penalty prescribed by law.
   (C)   Fee refunds may be authorized by the Building Official of any fee paid
hereunder which was erroneously paid or collected. The Building Official may
authorize refunding of not more than 80% of the permit fee paid when no work
has been done under a permit issued in accordance with this code. The Building
Official shall not authorize refunding of any fee paid except on written
application filed by the original permittee not later than 180 days after the
date of fee payment. All plan review fees shall be paid by the applicant
whether the project is to be completed or not.
(Ord. 52, passed 11-25-03; Am. Res. 93-22, passed 11-15-22)
§ 150.04 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions hereof or who shall make any false statement in any document
required to be submitted under the provisions of this code shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Each day that the violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (B)   Injunctive relief and other remedies. In the event of a violation or
threat of a violation of this code, the county may institute appropriate
actions or proceedings, including injunctive relief, to prevent, restrain,
correct, or abate such violations or threat of violations.
(Ord. 52, passed 11-25-03; Am. Res. 93-22, passed 11-15-22)
§ 150.05 SEPARABILITY; SUPREMACY.
   (A)   Separability.  Every section, provision, or part of this subchapter or
any permit issued pursuant to this subchapter is declared separable from every
other section, provision, or part thereof to the extent that if any section,
provision, or part of this subchapter or any permit issued pursuant to this
subchapter shall be held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, it shall
not invalidate any other section, provision, or part thereof.
   (B)   Supremacy. When any condition imposed by any provision of this
subchapter on the use of land or building or on the bulk of buildings is either
more restrictive or less restrictive than similar conditions imposed by any
provision of any other community ordinance or regulation, the more restrictive
conditions shall prevail.
(Ord. 52, passed 11-25-03; Am. Res. 93-22, passed 11-15-22)
CONVEYANCE OF TITLES
§ 150.30 PURPOSE.
   The county has adopted rules by which it regulates the platting or
subdivision of lands outside of municipalities as authorized by M.S. § 505.11,
as it may be amended from time to time. The purpose of this subchapter is to
facilitate the uniform application and enforcement of the regulations and is
adopted pursuant to the authority granted by state law.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-16-89; Am. Ord. 6A, passed 5-16-89; Am. Res. 93-22, passed
11-15-22)
§ 150.31 INSTRUMENTS REQUIRING APPROVAL.
   All instruments by which the legal title to real estate situated in the
county is conveyed from one owner to a new owner shall be submitted to the
Zoning Administrator before the same is recorded in the Office of the County
Recorder.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-16-89; Am. Ord. 6A, passed 5-16-89; Am. Res. 93-22, passed
11-15-22)
§ 150.32 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall examine all instruments to determine
that the proposed conveyance complies with county regulations, as the same may
be amended from time to time. If the Zoning Administrator is satisfied that the
proposed conveyance complies with the regulations, he or she shall affix his or
her stamp to the deed, which stamp shall be in the following form: “I certify
that this instrument complies with Carver County Ordinance No. 97 and is
eligible for recording or registration.”
   (B)   If the Zoning Administrator shall have any doubt concerning any
proposed conveyance, he or she shall refer the same to the County Surveyor and
shall not approve the same for recording or registration until the instrument
has also been approved by the County Surveyor.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-16-89; Am. Ord. 6A, passed 5-16-89; Am. Res. 93-22, passed
11-15-22)
§ 150.33 RECORDING PROHIBITED.
   The County Recorder shall not record or register any of the instruments
referred to in §
150.31 until the instrument has been approved for recording or registration by
the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-16-89; Am. Ord. 6A, passed 5-16-89; Am. Res. 93-22, passed
11-15-22)
§ 150.34 EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   Real estate mortgages and leases for a period of 20 years or less
shall not require approval prior to recording.
   (B)   Contracts for deed and other executory contracts for the sale of land
shall be deemed an instrument of conveyance hereunder.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-16-89; Am. Ord. 6A, passed 5-16-89)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Short title
   
151.002   Policy
   
151.003   Purposes
   
151.004   Jurisdiction
   
151.005   Platting authority
   
151.006   Interpretation and scope
   
151.007   Definitions
   
151.008   Restrictions on building permit, improvements, acceptance,
maintenance
   
151.009   Registered land surveys
   
151.010   Metes and bounds
   
151.011   Compliance with comprehensive plan, zoning code, official map
   
151.012   Adoption of a manual of standard procedures
   
151.013   Fees
General Procedures for the Subdivision of Land
   
151.025   Platting required
   
151.026   Required steps
   
151.027   Re-subdivision of land
   
151.028   Board of adjustment/variances
   
151.029   Public hearing notice
Sketch Plan
   
151.040   Purpose
   
151.041   Information required
   
151.042   Submission
   
151.043   Action by the Planning Commission
   
151.044   Determination of requirement for environmental review documents
Preliminary Plat
   
151.055   Requirement for application
   
151.056   Information to be furnished with preliminary plat
   
151.057   Filing and review of application
   
151.058   Submission
   
151.059   Report of the Planning Commission
   
151.060   Board action
   
151.061   Approval or denial
   
151.062   Qualifications governing approval of the preliminary plat
Final Plat
   
151.075   Filing of application and requirements for application
   
151.076   Review, approval, or denial
   
151.077   Form and content
   
151.078   Completion of improvements
   
151.079   Approval/denial
   
151.080   Recording
   
151.081   Print to county
   
151.082   Partial approval - extension of preliminary plat approval
   
151.083   Record plans
Minor Subdivision Approval
   
151.095   Application of provisions
   
151.096   Minor subdivisions
   
151.097   Major subdivision
   
151.098   Application procedure
   
151.099   Procedures for approval/denial
   
151.100   Reserved
   
151.101   Recording
Improvements
   
151.135   Responsibility
   
151.136   Standards and requirements
   
151.137   Development contract
   
151.138   Construction plans
   
151.140   Inspection
   
151.141   Completion of improvements
   
151.142   Maintenance of improvements
   
151.143   Deferral or waiver of required improvements
   
151.144   Issuance of building permits and certificates of occupancy prior to
the completion of improvements
Subdivision Design and Public Improvement/Installation Standards
   
151.155   General provisions
   
151.156   Lot standards
   
151.157   Blocks
   
151.158   Roads and alleys
   
151.159   Subsurface sewage treatment systems
   
151.160   Natural features and amenities
   
151.161   Engineering requirements
   
151.162   Standard plans
   
151.163   Roadway and utility design requirements
   
151.164   Roadway, utility and general construction and restoration
Financial Guarantee
   
151.175   Financial guarantee
   
Appendix:    Road standards
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Carver County Subdivision Ordinance, and
will be referred to herein as this chapter.
(Ord. 33, § 1.1, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.002 POLICY.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the county to consider the
subdivision of land and the subsequent development of the plat as subject of
the control of the county pursuant to the comprehensive plan of the county for
the orderly, planned, efficient and economical development of the county.
   (B)   Land to be subdivided shall be of such character that it can be used
safely for building purposes without danger to health or peril from fire,
flood, or other menace, and land shall not be subdivided unless proper
provisions have been made for drainage, water, sewage, and capital improvements
such as schools, parks, recreation facilities, transportation facilities and
any other necessary improvements.
   (C)   Each lot created through subdivision must be suitable in its natural
state for the proposed use with minimal alteration. Suitability analysis shall
consider susceptibility to flooding, existence of wetlands, soil and rock
formations with severe limitations for development, severe erosion potential,
steep topography, inadequate water supply or sewage treatment capabilities,
near-shore aquatic conditions unsuitable for water-based recreation, important
fish and wildlife habitat, presence of significant historic sites, or any other
feature of the natural land likely to be harmful to the health, safety, or
welfare of future residents of the proposed subdivision or of the community.
   (D)   The existing and proposed public improvements shall conform to and be
properly related to the county and township comprehensive plans, official map,
and the capital budget and program of the county, and it is intended that these
regulations shall supplement and facilitate the enforcement of the provisions
and standards contained in the building code, zoning code, the comprehensive
plan, official map, and capital budget and program of the county.
(Ord. 33, § 1.2, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.003 PURPOSES.
   These regulations are adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To protect and provide for the public health, safety, and general
welfare of the county;
   (B)   To guide the future growth and development of the county, in
accordance with the comprehensive plan;
   (C)   To preserve prime and good agricultural land in tracts large enough
for viable commercial agricultural operations;
   (D)   To provide for adequate light, air, and privacy, to secure safety from
fire, flood, and other danger, and to prevent overcrowding of the land and
undue congestion of population;
   (E)   To protect the character and the social and economic stability of all
parts of the county and to encourage the orderly and beneficial development of
all parts of the county;
   (F)   To protect and conserve the value of land throughout the county and
the value of buildings and improvements upon the land, and to minimize the
conflicts among the uses of land and buildings;
   (G)   To guide public and private policy and action in order to provide
adequate and efficient transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks,
playgrounds, recreation, and other public requirements and facilities;
   (H)   To provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of land
and buildings and the circulation of traffic throughout the county, having
particular regard to the avoidance of congestion in streets and highways, and
the pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the various uses of land and
buildings, and to provide for the proper location and width of streets and
building lines;
   (I)   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and resubdivisions, in order to further the orderly layout and use
of land and to insure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided
land;
   (J)   To insure that adequate public facilities are available and will have
a sufficient capacity to serve the proposed subdivision;
   (K)   To prevent the pollution of air, streams, and ponds; to assure the
adequacy of drainage facilities; to safeguard the water table and to encourage
the wise use and management of natural resources throughout the county in order
to preserve the integrity, stability, and beauty of the community and the value
of the land;
   (L)   To preserve the natural beauty and topography of the county and to
insure appropriate development with regard to these natural features; and
   (M)   To provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and
layout of the land, including the use of average density in providing for
minimum width and area of lots, while preserving the density of land as
established in the zoning code of the county.
(Ord. 33, § 1.3, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.004 JURISDICTION.
   These rules and regulations shall apply to all plats and subdivisions of
land, including registered land surveys, within the unincorporated areas of the
county, except within orderly annexation areas or other areas where there is an
agreement between the township, the city and the county for the subdivision of
land.
(Ord. 33, § 1.4, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.005 PLATTING AUTHORITY.
   The County Board shall serve as the platting authority of the county in
accordance with M.S. Chapters 394 and 505, as they may be amended from time to
time. No plat, replat, subdivision of land or registered land survey, excluding
minor subdivisions, shall be filed or accepted for filing by the County
Recorder/Registrar of Titles of Carver County unless it is accompanied by a
certified copy of a resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of the majority
of the members of the County Board approving such plat, replat, subdivision of
land or registered land survey except as provided in §§
151.095 et seq.
(Ord. 33, § 1.5, passed 1-21-92; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11)
§ 151.006 INTERPRETATION AND SCOPE.
   All subdivisions of land within Carver County shall equal or exceed the
standards set forth in this chapter. The standards established by this chapter
are not intended to repeal, abrogate, annul or impair private agreements or
restrictive covenants running with the land which are equal to or more
restrictive than the standards hereby established, except that the most
restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 33, § 1.6, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
   BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision which is entirely bounded by
streets or by a combination of streets, railroad right-of-way, public parks, or
cemeteries, the exterior boundary or boundaries of the subdivision, or the
shoreline of the above with a river or lake.
   BLUFF. Refer to the Zoning Code regulations,
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
   BOULEVARD. That portion of the street right-of-way between the curb line and
the property line.
   BUILDING. Refer to the Zoning Code regulations,
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to a lot line or the ordinary high water
level at the required setback beyond which a structure may not extend.
   BUTT LOT. A lot at the end of a block and located between two corner lots.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM (CIP). An itemized program setting forth the
schedule and details of specific contemplated public improvements by fiscal
year, together with their estimated cost, the justification for each
improvement, the impact that such improvements will have on the current
operating expense of the government, and such other information on capital
improvements as may be pertinent.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. Refer to the Zoning Code regulations,
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
   CROSSWALK or PEDESTRIAN WAY. A publicly owned right-of-way which crosses a
block and furnishes pedestrian access to adjacent streets or properties.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only one outlet and having an appropriate
terminus for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
   DEPARTMENT. Refer to the Zoning Code regulations,
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
   EASEMENT. A grant or authorization by a property owner for the use of a
designated part of his or her property, by the public, a corporation, or
persons for a specific purpose such as the construction of utilities, drainage
ways and roadways.
   ENGINEER. The County Engineer or a consultant engineer employed by the
county.
   ESCROW. The deposition of funds in an account maintained by the governmental
unit specifically for the purpose of ensuring fulfillment of certain
obligations assumed pursuant to this chapter.
   FLEXIBLE ZONING TECHNIQUES. Zoning which permits the use of land and density
of buildings and structures different from those which are allowed by right in
the zoning district in which the land is situated. Some examples are planned
unit developments, group housing projects, average or density zoning projects.
   FRONTAGE, HAVE FRONTAGE ON, FRONT ON. Abut, immediately adjacent to.
   GOVERNING BODY. County Board of Carver County.
   GRADE, PERCENTAGE OF. The rise or fall of a street in feet and tenths of a
foot for each 100 feet of horizontal distance measured at the center line of
the street.
   IMPROVEMENT, LOT. Any building, structure, work of art, or other object, or
improvement of the land on which they are situated constituting a physical
betterment of real property, or any part of such betterment. Certain lot
improvements may require bonding under the provisions of this chapter.
   IMPROVEMENT, PUBLIC. Any drainage facility, roadway, parkway, park,
sidewalk, pedestrian way, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement
or other facility for which the local government may ultimately assume the
responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an
improvement for which county responsibility is established.
   LOT. The smallest unit of a subdivision individually numbered or designated
on the plat for purposes of description, recording, conveyance, development and
taxation. The terms LOT, PARCEL, and TRACT are synonymous.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two streets.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between a street right-of-way line
and the opposite rear line of the lot measured in the general direction of the
side lot lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets.
   LOT LINE. A lot line is a property line bounding a lot except that where any
portion of a lot extends into or abuts the public right-of-way or a proposed
public right-of-way, the nearest line of such public right-of-way shall be the
lot line for applying this chapter.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot
measured at the location of the principal building and at the road right-of-way
line or ordinary high water level.
   MINIMUM SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS. The guides, principles and
specifications for the preparation of subdivision plans indicating among other
things, the minimum and maximum dimensions of the various elements set forth in
the preliminary plat.
   OFFICIAL MAP. Refer to the Zoning Code regulations,
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL. Refer to the Zoning Code regulations,
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
   OUTLOT. A parcel of land shown on a subdivision plat as an outlot, and
designated alphanumerically, for example - Outlot A. Outlots are used to
designate one of the following: land that is part of the subdivision but is to
be subdivided into lots and blocks at a later date; land that is to be used for
a specific purpose as designated in a development contract or other agreement
between the county and the subdivider; or for a public purpose.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership,
corporation, trust or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary
interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain
proceedings to subdivide the same under these regulations.
   PERSON. Shall include both female and male and shall also extend and be
applied to bodies politic and corporate and partnerships and other
unincorporated associations.
   PLAT. The drawing or map of a subdivision prepared for filing of record
pursuant to M.S. Chapter 505, as it may be amended from time to time, and
containing all elements and requirements set forth in applicable local
regulations adopted pursuant to M.S. § 562.358 and Chapter 505, as they may be
amended from time to time.
   PLAT, FINAL. The final map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider’s plan
or subdivision is presented to the County Board for approval and which, if
approved, will be submitted to the County Recorder/Registrar of Titles.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. The preliminary map, drawing or chart indicating the
proposed layout of the subdivision to be submitted to the Planning Commission
and County Board for their consideration for compliance with the county plan
and these regulations along with required supporting data.
   PLATTING OFFICER. The manager of the Department assigned to perform the
duties so outlined in this chapter.
   PROTECTIVE/RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS. Documents filed in the office of the
County Recorder/Registrar of Titles which constitute a restriction on the
property in the subdivision.
   REGISTERED ENGINEER. An engineer properly licensed and registered in the
state.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. A land surveyor properly licensed and registered
in the state.
   RESPONSIBLE AUTHORITY. The unit of government or other organization as
designated in a developer’s agreement that will be responsible for the
operation and/or maintenance of an improvement within a subdivision plat.
   RESUBDIVISION. A change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision plat
if such change affects any street layout on such map or area reserved thereon
for public use, or any lot line or if it affects any map or plan legally
recorded prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas
pipeline, watermain, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees, or for another
special use. The usage of the term RIGHT-OF-WAY for land platting  purposes
shall mean that every right-of-way hereafter established and shown on a final
plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such
right-of-way and not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots or
parcels. Rights-of-way intended for streets, crosswalks, watermain, sanitary
sewers, storm drains, shade trees, or any other use involving maintenance by a
public agency shall be dedicated to public use by the make of the plat on which
such right-of-way is established.
   ROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH. The distance between property lines measured at
right angles or radially to the centerline of the street.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure, sewage
treatment system, or other facility, and an ordinary high water level, sewage
treatment system, top of bluff, road, highway, property line, or other
facility.
   SHORELAND. Land located within the following distance from public waters:
1,000 feet from the ordinary high water level of a lake, pond or flowage and
300 feet from a river or stream as shown on the Carver County Zoning Map; or
the landward extent of a floodplain designated by ordinance of such a river or
stream, whichever is greater. The practical limits of shorelands may be less
than statutory limits wherever the waters involved are bounded by natural
topographic divides which extend landward from the waters for lesser distances
and when approved by the Commissioner of Natural Resources.
   STREET, ARTERIAL. A street of considerable continuity, which is used
primarily for heavy through traffic between major traffic generation areas.
Arterial streets are designated in the comprehensive plan.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A feeder street as designated in the comprehensive plan
which provides connection primarily between arterial streets or arterial
streets and minor streets. Collector streets include the principal entrance
streets of a residential development and the principal streets for circulation
within such development.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A comparatively short minor street having one end open
to traffic and the other end permanently terminated by a vehicular turn-around.
   STREET, LOCAL. A minor street, the principal function of which is to provide
access to individual parcels of property. Culs-de-sac and marginal access
streets are to be considered local streets.
   STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS SERVICE STREET OR FRONTAGE ROAD. A minor street
which is parallel and adjacent to a highway or an arterial street and which
provides access to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
   STREET WIDTH. The width of the improved surface of the street as measured at
right angles or radially to the centerline of the street from curb face to curb
face, or on a street without curbs from the outside edge of the improved
shoulder to outside edge of improved shoulder.
   SUBDIVIDER. A person, owner, applicant, or developer who submits a plat for
the purpose of land subdivision as defined herein. The subdivider may be the
owner or authorized agent of the owner of the land to be subdivided.
   SUBDIVISION. The separation of an area, parcel, or tract of land into two or
more parcels, tracts, lots, or long-term leasehold interests where the creation
of the leasehold interest necessitates the creation of streets, roads, or
alleys, for residential, commercial, industrial, or other use or any
combination thereof, except those separations:
      (1)   Where all the resulting parcels, tracts, or interests will be 20
acres or larger in size and 500 feet in width for residential or agricultural
uses and 5 acres or larger in size for commercial and industrial uses;
      (2)   Creating cemetery lots;
      (3)   Resulting from court orders, or the adjustment of a lot line by the
relocation of a common boundary.
   ZONING CODE. The ordinance so named, and any amendments thereto, adopted by
the county regulating the use of land within the unincorporated areas of the
county.
(Ord. 33, § 13.0, passed 1-21-92; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11)
§ 151.008 RESTRICTIONS ON BUILDING PERMIT, IMPROVEMENTS, ACCEPTANCE,
MAINTENANCE.
   No subdivision shall be entitled to be recorded in the office of the County
Recorder/Registrar of Titles nor shall it have any validity unless approved as
provided in this chapter. The county shall not issue any building permits for
any structure in any lot in a subdivision that has not received final approval
pursuant to this chapter. The County Board shall not permit any improvements to
be installed unless the preliminary plat is approved and shall expend no public
monies for street or utility maintenance services until the approval of the
final plat. The County Board shall not accept the dedication of any
improvements prior to the approval of the final plat.
(Ord. 33, § 1.7, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.009 REGISTERED LAND SURVEYS.
   All registered land surveys under the jurisdiction of this chapter shall be
filed with the Platting Officer and shall be subject to the same procedure as
required for the filing and approval of a plat. The standards and requirements
in this chapter shall apply to registered land surveys and all the restrictions
contained in this section shall apply to registered land surveys.
(Ord. 33, § 1.8, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.010 METES AND BOUNDS.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, no land shall be
conveyed or subdivided by a metes and bounds description.
(Ord. 33, § 1.9, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.011 COMPLIANCE WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN, ZONING CODE, OFFICIAL MAP.
   No subdivision of land shall conflict with the provisions of the county or
affected township comprehensive plan, zoning code, or official map.
(Ord. 33, § 1.10, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.012 ADOPTION OF A MANUAL OF STANDARD PROCEDURES.
   The county is hereby authorized to adopt by resolution a manual of standards
for the subdivision of land and the design and installation of public
improvements associated with the subdivision of land.
(Ord. 33, § 1.11, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.013 FEES.
   The Carver County Board is hereby authorized to adopt by resolution a
schedule of fees for the subdivision and development of land as provided by
this chapter.
(Ord. 33, § 1.12, passed 1-21-92)
GENERAL PROCEDURES FOR THE SUBDIVISION OF LAND
§ 151.025 PLATTING REQUIRED.
   With the exception of those divisions of land specifically provided for in
§§ 151.095 et seq., all subdivisions of land regulated by this chapter shall be
platted in accordance with the procedures of
§§ 151.040 et seq.,
151.055 et seq., and
151.075 et seq.
(Ord. 33, § 2.1, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.026 REQUIRED STEPS.
   Whenever any subdivision of land is proposed, regardless of whether the land
has been previously subdivided, before any contract is made for the sale of any
part thereof, and before any permit for the erection of a structure on such
proposed subdivision shall be granted, the subdividing owner or his or her
authorized agent shall apply for and secure approval of such proposed
subdivision in accordance with the procedures set out in §§
151.040 et seq.,
151.055 et seq., and
151.075 et seq.
(Ord. 33, § 2.2, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.027 RE-SUBDIVISION OF LAND.
   Whenever a parcel of land is subdivided and the subdivision plat shows one
or more lots that may eventually be resubdivided into smaller building sites,
the County Board may require that the land be platted so as to allow for the
future opening of streets and the ultimate extension of adjacent streets.
Easements providing for the future opening and extension of such streets may be
made a requirement of the plat. The plat shall provide for the location of
structures so as to permit future subdivision into smaller lots.
(Ord. 33, § 2.3, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.028 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT/VARIANCES.
   A plat or subdivision shall not be approved where a variance will
subsequently be required in order to use the lot(s) for their intended use.
But, where the Board of Adjustment finds that extraordinary hardship(s) or
practical difficulty(s) may result from strict compliance with these
regulations and/or the purposes of these regulations may be serviced to a
greater extent by an alternative proposal, the Board of Adjustment may approve
variances from these subdivision regulations, provided that such variances
shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of this chapter,
the Zoning Code, or the Comprehensive Plan, and further provided the Board of
Adjustment shall not approve or disapprove variances unless it shall make
findings based upon the evidence presented in the Zoning Code regulations,
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11)
§ 151.029 PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE.
   In all cases where a public hearing is required, official notice of said
hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area at
least 10 days but no more than 30 days prior to the date of said hearing.
Mailed notice of the hearing shall be provided to all property owners within
1,320 feet of the boundaries of the affected land. Timing of the notice shall
be the same as that for the published notice. Defects in the public notices
shall not abrogate or annul subsequent proceedings provided a good faith
attempt was made to give proper notice.
(Ord. 33, § 2.5, passed 1-21-92)
SKETCH PLAN
§ 151.040 PURPOSE.
   Subdividers shall prepare, for review and approval by the Department, a
sketch plan depicting a subdivision proposal. In addition, the subdivider shall
prepare, for review and approval by the Planning Commission, a sketch plan
depicting a subdivision proposal if a conditional use permit is required. The
sketch plan and accompanying information shall serve as the basis for
discussions between the subdivider, the Planning Commission and the staff, and
is intended to provide the developer with an advisory review of the subdivision
without incurring major costs. This step may not be necessary if another
action, typically a zoning action, accomplishes the same purpose as the sketch
plan review.
(Ord. 33, § 3.1, passed 1-21-92; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11)
§ 151.041 INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   The following information shall be supplied at a minimum:
   (A)   A sketch plan showing proposed lot, density, use acreage, and
relationship to the surrounding land, location within the county, and
generalized natural features;
   (B)   Any required zoning changes;
   (C)   Proposed timing and staging of development;
   (D)   Documents demonstrating the applicant’s interest in the property.
(Ord. 33, § 3.2, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.042 SUBMISSION.
   The sketch plan and associated information shall be submitted to the
Platting Officer no later than 12 calendar days prior to a regularly scheduled
Planning Commission meeting. The Platting Officer shall review the application
and determine if the proposed division is under the jurisdiction of this
chapter. If the Officer determines that the division is not under the
jurisdiction of this chapter, the Platting Officer shall execute a
certification to that fact within 10 days. If it is determined that this
chapter applies, the Platting Officer shall place the sketch plan review on the
Planning Commission agenda.
(Ord. 33, § 3.3, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.043 ACTION BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   If applicable, the Planning Commission shall recommend to the County Board
the conformity of the subdivision with the comprehensive plan, the subdivision
regulations, potential variances that may be required, and of other applicable
official controls. Any comments or recommendations for modifications made and/
or approval at this point by the Planning Commission are recommendations only
from the Planning Commission, and shall not constitute approval or commitment
to approve. If the subdivider determines to proceed with the subdivision as
proposed or revised, he or she may proceed with the preparation of the
preliminary plat as provided in §§
151.055 et seq.
(Ord. 33, § 3.4, passed 1-21-92; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11)
§ 151.044 DETERMINATION OF REQUIREMENT FOR ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW DOCUMENTS.
   The Platting Officer shall review the sketch plan and shall determine if
environmental review documents must be completed pursuant to Minn. Rules Parts
4410.0200 through 4410.7800, as they may be amended from time to time. If such
documents are required, the Platting Officer shall notify the subdivider of the
requirement.
(Ord. 33, § 3.5, passed 1-21-92)
PRELIMINARY PLAT
§ 151.055 REQUIREMENT FOR APPLICATION.
   After the completion of the sketch plan process if required, the owner or
subdivider shall file with the Platting Officer an application for preliminary
plat approval which shall consist of the following:
   (A)   A completed application form and documents demonstrating sufficient
ownership or control in the applicant to apply for the subdivision;
   (B)   Six copies of the preliminary plat, plus any additional copies deemed
necessary by the Platting Officer plus one reproducible copy reduced to 8½
inches x 11 inches. The application shall contain at a minimum the information
required in §
151.056 and any additional information required by the county;
   (C)   Application fee. Refer to the Carver County Fee Schedule. This fee
will be used for the expenses of the county in connection with approval or
disapproval of said plat.
   (D)   If the subdivider requests that any existing special assessments which
have been levied against the premises described in the subdivision be divided
and allocated to the respective lots in the subdivision plat, the county shall
estimate the clerical cost of preparing the revised assessment roll, filing the
same with the County Taxpayers Services Department, and making such division
and allocation, and upon approval by the Board of such estimated cost the same
shall be paid to the County Finance Department in addition to the fee mentioned
above to cover the cost of preparing and filing such revised assessments.
   (E)   Completed environmental review documents required pursuant to §
151.044.
(Ord. 33, § 4.1, passed 1-21-92; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11)
§ 151.056 INFORMATION TO BE FURNISHED WITH PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The preliminary plat stage is the point in the process that all
information pertinent to the proposed development is furnished by the developer
for review by county staff, the Planning Commission, the County Board, and the
public. The information provides a basis for approval/denial of the
application. The information submitted in the application should address both
existing conditions and changes that will occur during and after development.
The preliminary plat is a plan of how property will be developed. Changes may
be required by the Planning Commission or County Board and additional
information may be requested during the review process. In certain cases some
information required by these standards may not be appropriate or may need to
be modified in order to provide an adequate basis for making a decision. The
staff, Planning Commission, and County Board may request additional
information. Modifications to the informational requirements may be made by the
County Board, the Planning Commission and authorized staff.
   (B)   Preliminary plat information is typically furnished on the plat map,
however, some information is more appropriately submitted in other forms. The
plat and associated information should be submitted in a form that is legible,
organized and understandable. The following information should be submitted as
the preliminary plat application:
      (1)   General information. The application shall consist of a map and
accompanying documents. The map and documents shall contain the following
general information:
         (a)   The proposed name of the plat;
         (b)   Name, address, phone number of the owner, developer, agent,
applicant, engineer, surveyor, planner, attorney or other principle involved in
the development of the plat;
         (c)   Proof of ownership or sufficient interest in the property to
legally make application;
         (d)   School district, watershed, or other special purpose of
government in which the proposed plat is located;
         (e)   Existing zoning or any zoning changes needed, reference to any
zoning or similar land use actions that have already occurred that are
pertinent to the proposed development;
         (f)   Total acreage of the land to be subdivided;
         (g)   Boundary line survey and legal description;
         (h)   North arrow and scale of 1:200 to 1:50 depending upon the size
of the plat and the detail of the information to be shown;
         (i)   Existing covenants, liens, or encumbrances.
      (2)   Existing features to be shown.
         (a)   Existing property lines and property lines extending 100 feet
from the exterior boundaries of the parcel to be subdivided, the names of the
adjacent property owners shall be indicated and their addresses provided.
         (b)   Existing roads both public and private, showing width of road,
types of construction, any associated easements.
         (c)   Any and all existing easements with purpose of easement and
types and location of any facility or installation that is located in the
easement.
         (d)   Location, size, capacity, of all existing drainage storm sewer
and agricultural tiles, abandoned wells, sewer, water, and utility facilities
including utility poles and utilities stubbed to the property.
         (e)   Permanent buildings or other substantial land uses.
         (f)   Topography at 2-foot intervals, to include at least 100 feet
beyond the limits of the property.
         (g)   Existing wooded areas - the location and species of all trees
with a trunk diameter of 6 inches or greater shall be shown in areas planned to
be disturbed during the development.
         (h)   Waterways, watercourses, lakes, and wetlands with ordinary high
water level and/or 100-year flood elevations shown.
         (i)   The toe and top of any bluffs present.
         (j)   In shoreland areas, information shall be submitted regarding
near-shore aquatic conditions including depths, types of bottom sediments and
aquatic vegetation.
         (k)   The information submitted shall also include an analysis of the
soils in the area to be platted. Areas with soils that will present problems
for development shall be shown and any measures taken to alleviate problems
shall be outlined. The comprehensive plan and the Carver County Soils Survey
are the primary information sources for this information. Representative soil
borings are advised, in some cases they may be required.
      (3)   Proposed features to be shown. The following information is
required for the preliminary plat. Additional information that will aid in
decision-making should also be submitted:
         (a)   Proposed lot lines, dimensions, and acreage of all new lots;
         (b)   Proposed uses and densities including parks, ponding areas,
areas of common ownership;
         (c)   Location, grade, and width of proposed streets, pedestrian ways,
sidewalks, bicycle paths, trails, walking paths and provision for extending
streets to serve adjacent areas;
         (d)   General plans for the connection/installation of sewer, water,
electricity, telephone, gas, and drainage facilities;
         (e)   Location of two sites suitable for on-site sewer systems with
the method of protecting the unused site for future use outlined;
         (f)   Grading plans showing how the site will be graded and showing
the final contours into the existing contours;
         (g)   Proposed easements for drainage, slope protection, flood
protection, and protection of wetlands and waterbodies including storm-water
storage areas, easements for the installation of utilities and street trees;
         (h)   The minimum setbacks and resulting building lines;
         (i)   Documents outlining the content of proposed restrictions,
covenants, and establishment of homeowners’ associations in sufficient detail
to review for content;
         (j)   Information or easements showing how utilities, drainage, and
roads can be extended to serve adjacent property;
         (k)   Erosion control measures to be taken to prevent erosion and
sedimentation both during and after development;
         (l)   If the entire parcel is not being proposed for subdivision, a
sketch indicating how the remaining property could be subdivided;
         (m)   Other information not specifically required in this section may
be supplied by the applicant. Examples of other information that could be
supplied include sample site plans and artist’s conceptions of the final
development.
(Ord. 33, § 4.2, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.057 FILING AND REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   The preliminary plat application shall be considered to be officially
filed when the Platting Officer has received and examined the application and
has certified that the application is complete.
   (B)   If the determination has not been previously made, the Platting
Officer shall then determine if the proposed subdivision is within the scope of
these regulations.
   (C)   If the determination is made that this chapter does not apply, the
county shall execute a certification to that fact within ten days and refund
any fees that may have been paid.
   (D)   Within a reasonable time after receiving and certifying the
preliminary plat application, the Platting Officer shall:
      (1)   Set a public hearing on the preliminary plat, such hearing to be
held by the Planning Commission within 45 days. Public notice shall be in
accordance with §
151.029. The Planning Commission shall report its findings and recommendations
to the governing body. The recommendation may be conditional, and may recommend
approval or denial of all or part of the preliminary plat. Notice of said
hearing shall be published once in the official newspaper at least ten days
prior to the hearing.
      (2)   Refer copies of the preliminary plat to the Planning Commission,
and other staff, advisory boards, committees, commissions, consultants, or
agencies as appropriate.
(Ord. 33, § 4.3, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.058 SUBMISSION.
   The Platting Officer shall submit copies of the preliminary plat together
with reports and other relevant materials to the Planning Commission within ten
days of the public hearing.
(Ord. 33, § 4.4, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.059 REPORT OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Platting Officer shall prepare a report of the Planning Commission
findings and recommendations and transmit same to the County Board within 30
days subsequent to the close of the public hearing on said preliminary plat.
(Ord. 33, § 4.5, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.060 BOARD ACTION.
   The County Board shall act on the preliminary plat within 120 days of the
date of receipt by the county of an application completed in accordance with
this chapter. If the report of the Planning Commission has not been received in
time to meet this requirement, the Board may act on the preliminary plat
without such a report. The County Board may make such changes or revisions as
it deems necessary for the health, safety, general welfare and convenience of
the county. Should the County Board fail to act within the 120-day period, the
preliminary plat shall be deemed approved and the county shall upon demand
furnish certification to that effect. The 120-day period may be extended upon
agreement with the applicant.
(Ord. 33, § 4.6, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.061 APPROVAL OR DENIAL.
   Approval or denial shall be by resolution, including findings of fact, and
shall be entered in the proceedings of the Board and transmitted to the
applicant. If the preliminary plat is approved, such approval shall not
constitute final approval of the subdivision.
(Ord. 33, § 4.7, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.062 QUALIFICATIONS GOVERNING APPROVAL OF THE PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The preliminary plat shall conform such standards and specifications
as adopted by the county.
   (B)   The approval of a preliminary plat by the County Board is an
acceptance of the general layout as submitted, and indicates to the subdivider
that he or she may proceed toward fulfilling the necessary steps for approval
of the final plat in accordance with the County Board’s approval.
   (C)   Subsequent approval of the engineering proposals required by this
chapter pertaining to water supply, storm drainage, sewerage and sewage
disposal, sidewalks, gas and electric service, grading, gradients and roadway
widths and the surfacing of streets shall be necessary by the public officials
having jurisdiction, prior to the approval of the final plat by the county.
   (D)   No plat will be approved for a subdivision which does not conform to
applicable floodplain regulations.
   (E)   A plat or subdivision shall not be approved unless there is provision
for two on-site sewer systems, streets as required by the township, and
provisions for the proper disposal of storm water.
   (F)   A plat or subdivision shall not be approved where a variance will
subsequently be required in order to use the lots for their intended purpose.
(Ord. 33, § 4.8, passed 1-21-92)
FINAL PLAT
§ 151.075 FILING OF APPLICATION AND REQUIREMENTS FOR APPLICATION.
   (A)   The owner or subdivider shall file five copies of the final plat no
later than six months after the date of approval of the preliminary plat or as
provided in a developer’s agreement, otherwise, the preliminary plat approval
shall be considered void unless an extension is requested in writing by the
subdivider and for good cause granted by the County Board. In the case of a
final plat filed for only a portion of the preliminary plat, the remaining
preliminary plat may be extended as above. The owner or subdivider shall also
submit at the same time an up-to-date certified abstract of title or registered
property report, and such other evidence, as the County Attorney or Platting
Officer may require, showing sufficient title or control in the applicant. Any
restrictive covenants, developer’s agreement, be submitted for review by the
County Attorney unless such agreements or contracts have already been reviewed
and executed. The applicant shall also submit one copy of the final plat to the
County Surveyor for mathematical checking, conformance with §§
151.155 et seq., subdivision plats and registered land surveys, and conformance
with state statute. Required fees shall be paid at the time of filing.
   (B)   The final plat shall have incorporated all changes or modifications
required by the County Board. In all other respects it shall conform to the
preliminary plat. It may constitute only that portion of the approved
preliminary plat which the subdivider proposes to record and develop at the
time, provided that such portion conforms with all the requirements of these
regulations.
   (C)   The final plat shall be considered officially filed after the Platting
Officer has examined it and certified that all requirements have been met.
(Ord. 33, § 5.1, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.076 REVIEW, APPROVAL, OR DENIAL.
   Within a reasonable time after the final plat is filed with the county, the
Platting Officer shall refer copies of the final plat to the township and
private utility companies as appropriate. The report by the County Attorney and
the County Surveyor shall be considered by the Planning Commission and the
County Board. Final action on the plat shall not be taken until such time as
these reports are available and have been reviewed. The procedure and timing
for the reports of the County Planning Commission and action by the County
Board are the same as for preliminary plat except that no public hearing is
required in processing the final plat. The County Board shall act on the final
plat within 60 days of official filing with the Platting Officer, unless an
extension of the deadline is mutually agreed to by the County Board and the
applicant. Action shall consist of resolutions passed by the Planning
Commission and the County Board approving or denying the plat. The resolutions
shall include appropriate findings and any conditions or requirements of
approval. The County Board resolution shall authorize the chairman to sign the
plat if the plat is to be approved. Failure to act shall constitute approval
provided all requirements and conditions upon which preliminary approval are
based are met.
(Ord. 33, § 5.2, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.077 FORM AND CONTENT.
   The final plat shall be of the form and content as prescribed in the §§
151.155 et seq.
(Ord. 33, § 5.3, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.078 COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   A final plat shall not be approved or signed unless:
   (A)   All of the required improvements, including improvements required on
individual lots, are completed in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter, and such completion is certified by the County Engineer, and all
improvements to be dedicated to the county are free and clear of all
encumbrances and liens; or
   (B)   The applicant shall post a financial guarantee pursuant to §§
151.175 et seq. at the time of application for final subdivision approval in an
amount estimated by the County Engineer as sufficient to secure to the county
the satisfactory construction, installation and dedication of the uncompleted
portion of required improvements. The financial guarantee shall also secure all
lot improvements on the individual lots of the subdivision.
      (1)   Such financial guarantee shall comply with all statutory
requirements and shall be satisfactory to the County Attorney as to form,
sufficiency, and manner of execution as set forth in these regulations. The
period within which required improvements must be completed shall be specified
by the County Board in the resolution approving the final subdivision plat and
shall be incorporated in the financial guarantee and shall not in any event
exceed two years from date of final approval.
      (2)   Such guarantee shall be approved by the County Board as to amount,
surety, and conditions. The Planning Commission may, upon proof of difficulty,
recommend to the County Board extension of the completion date set for in such
financial guarantee for a maximum period of one additional year.
(Ord. 33, § 5.4, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.079 APPROVAL/DENIAL.
   The County Board shall approve or deny the final plat by resolution. The
resolution shall include the appropriate findings of fact supporting the
approval or denial. The applicant shall be notified of the action.
(Ord. 33, § 5.5, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.080 RECORDING.
   If the final plat is approved by the County Board, the subdivider shall
record it within the office of the County Recorder/Registrar of Titles within
six months after the date of approval otherwise the approval of the final plat
shall be considered void.
(Ord. 33, § 5.6, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.081 PRINT TO COUNTY.
   The subdivider shall, immediately upon recording, furnish the county with
one print of the final plat showing evidence of the recording. No building
permits shall be issued until these conditions have been complied with.
(Ord. 33, § 5.7, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.082 PARTIAL APPROVAL - EXTENSION OF PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL.
   Upon receiving approval of a final plat for a portion of the approved
preliminary plat the subdivider shall be required to request a continuation of
the county’s recognition of the preliminary plat so as to maintain its
approval.
(Ord. 33, § 5.8, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.083 RECORD PLANS.
   The subdivider shall make a set of record plans indicating thereon all
changes in the work and including accurate as built locations, dimensions,
elevations, grades, slopes and all other pertinent information concerning the
completed work. The subdivider shall submit to the county one complete set of
reproducible MYLAR record plans and two sets of prints of the record plan.
(Ord. 33, § 5.9, passed 1-21-92)
MINOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL
§ 151.095 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   Notwithstanding the requirements of §§
151.025 et seq., the provisions of this subchapter shall apply only to those
subdivisions classified as minor subdivisions.
(Ord. 33, § 6.1, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.096 MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   The following shall be considered minor subdivisions:
   (A)   Residential. Any subdivision of land creating not more than one new
residential lot in which the lot to be subdivided conforms to all the
following:
      (1)   The subdivision meets the zoning code requirements for frontage on
an existing road.
      (2)   The subdivision does not require the construction of any new public
facilities, public improvements or new roads.
      (3)   The subdivision complies with the comprehensive plan, zoning code,
and any official map.
   (B)   Minor boundary adjustments. The relocation of the boundary line
between two abutting existing parcels of property shall be considered a minor
subdivision provided such relocation shall not cause the creation of an
additional parcel or parcels and the resulting parcels comply with the zoning
code.
   (C)   Agricultural. Any division of agricultural land for the purpose of
transfer of ownership for agricultural purposes shall be considered a minor
subdivision provided all of the requirements of the zoning code are fulfilled.
   (D)   Subdivisions resulting from the issuance of a conditional use permit.
Any division of land creating not more than two new lots and required for a use
permitted through the issuance of a conditional use permit shall be considered
a minor subdivision upon issuance of a conditional use permit.
   (E)   Land exchanges and additions to existing lots. Exchanges of abutting
land between owners, and the addition of land to an existing lot shall be
considered a minor subdivision provided the new lot and the remaining lot meet
the zoning code requirements.
(Ord. 33, § 6.2, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.097 MAJOR SUBDIVISION.
   Any subdivision of land regulated by this chapter shall be considered a
major subdivision unless specifically defined as a minor subdivision in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 33, § 6.3, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.098 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Whenever any subdivision of land as outlined in §
151.095 is proposed, before any contract is made for the sale of any part
thereof, and before any permit for the erection of a structure in such proposed
subdivision shall be granted, the subdividing owner or his or her authorized
agent, shall apply for and secure approval of such proposed subdivision in
accordance with the following procedures.
   (B)   Prior to subdividing land, an owner of the land or his or her agent,
shall file an application for approval of a minor subdivision. The application
shall be made on forms available from the Department and include:
      (1)   A map or sketch drawn to scale and showing:
         (a)   All contiguous property and all roads and their proper name;
         (b)   Proposed new property lines with dimensions noted;
         (c)   Proposed driveway location and location of existing driveways on
the same side of the road, if these are not shown on existing aerial half
section maps;
         (d)   Citation and location of any existing legal rights-of-way or
easements affecting the property;
         (e)   Name and address, including telephone number, of legal owner
and/or agent of property;
         (f)   Proposed legal description of the parcel to be subdivided, if
available;
         (g)   General location, purpose and dimensions of all existing
buildings. Location shall note distance of those buildings closest to property
lines from the existing and proposed property lines;
         (h)   General location of any existing tile lines, abandoned wells,
drainage ways, waterways, watercourses, lakes, wetlands and the toe and top of
any bluffs present. When applicable, the ordinary high water level and 100-year
flood elevations must be shown;
         (i)   Location of a primary and a secondary area for an on-site sewer
system on parcels of less than 20 acres.
      (2)   A survey of the proposed lots or parcels showing the location of
all existing buildings thereon which has been prepared and signed by a licensed
land surveyor when:
         (a)   The parcel to be created is less than five acres or has less
than 500 feet of frontage on a public road and could be used or is being used
for a residential building site;
         (b)   The parcel is to be used for a non residential or non-
agricultural purpose for which a conditional use permit has been issued; or
         (c)   The parcel is to be used solely for agricultural purposes, will
be attached to an adjoining parcel and has no road frontage.
         (d)   Boundary adjustments unless this requirement is waived by the
Department.
(Ord. 33, § 6.4, passed 1-21-92; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11)
§ 151.099 PROCEDURES FOR APPROVAL/DENIAL.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after certification of completion of the
application, the Platting Officer shall review the documents demonstrating
ownership or control or refer the documents to the County Attorney for review.
   (B)   The Carver County Platting Officer or designee has authority to
approve the minor subdivision when:
      (1)   The subdivision is not in conflict with the comprehensive plan, the
zoning code, or any other official controls of the county; or
      (2)   A variance has been granted by the Carver County Board of
Adjustment.
   (C)   Approval shall be signified by the signature of the Platting Officer
on the application and the deed of conveyance in accordance with Ordinance No.
6.
   (D)   In cases where the parcels to be conveyed or retained are not eligible
residential sites under the provisions of the zoning code any instrument of
conveyance and all Department records of the parcels shall be marked “not an
eligible building site”.
(Ord. 33, § 6.5, passed 1-21-92; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11)
§ 151.100 RESERVED.
§ 151.101 RECORDING.
   If the subdivision is approved, the subdivider shall record the deeds in the
office of the County Recorder/Registrar of Titles within 90 days after the date
of approval otherwise the approval of the subdivision shall be considered null
and void.
(Ord. 33, § 6.7, passed 1-21-92)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 151.135 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All required improvements are to be installed and furnished by subdivider
including all costs of inspection by the county, at the sole expense of the
subdivider and at no expense to the county. If any improvement installed within
the boundaries of the subdivision is determined to be of substantial benefit to
lands beyond the boundaries of the subdivision, the County Board may make
provisions for causing a portion of the cost of the improvement, representing
the benefit to such lands, to be assessed against the same and in such case the
subdivider will be required to pay only for such portion of the whole cost of
said improvements that represents the benefit to the property within the
subdivision.
(Ord. 33, § 8.1, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.136 STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   Engineering requirements, standards for plans, the required improvements,
and the standards for design and installation thereof shall conform to such
standards and specifications as adopted by the county and any additional or
more restrictive standards adopted by the township in which the subdivision is
located.
(Ord. 33, § 8.2, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.137 DEVELOPMENT CONTRACT.
   (A)   Prior to installation of any required improvements and prior to
approval of the final plat, the subdivider shall enter into a contract in
writing with the county and the township requiring the subdivider to furnish
and construct said improvements at his or her sole cost and in accordance with
plans and specifications and usual contract conditions and/or pay appropriate
costs for improvements or other costs associated with the plat. Further, the
contract shall provide for the development of any restrictions, covenants,
easements, or other conditions of the approved preliminary plat and provide for
the proper execution, recording or other action required.
   (B)   Approval of the development contract shall be by County Board
resolution and town board resolution.
      (1)   The development contract shall include provisions for the
supervision of the details of construction by the County Engineer or someone
acting in that capacity, and grant to the County Engineer or his or her agent,
authority to correlate the work to be done under said contract by any
subcontractors authorized to proceed thereunder, and with any other work being
done or contracted by the county in the vicinity.
      (2)   The development contract shall require the subdivider to provide a
financial guarantee to ensure completion of all improvements as provided in §
151.140 and §
151.175.
      (3)   Upon the request of the subdivider, the contract may provide for
completion of part or all of the improvements covered thereby prior to
acceptance of the final plat. In such event the amount of the guarantee shall
be reduced in a sum equal to the estimated cost of the improvements so
completed prior to acceptance of the final plat.
      (4)   The time for completion of the work and the several parts thereof
shall be determined by the County Board and/or town board upon recommendation
of the County Engineer after consultation with the subdivider and shall be
reasonable in relation to the work to be done, the seasons of the year, and
proper correlation with construction activities in the subdivision.
      (5)   The development contract shall state that the subdivider agrees
that the county is authorized to automatically draw from the financial
guarantee account should it find the subdivider to be in violation of county
code and/or the conditions set forth in this contract.
      (6)   One copy of the development contract which was signed by the
applicant, Town Board, and the county shall be submitted to the Department at
time of final plat approval. The County Board shall ensure that the development
contract and all attachments, exhibits, easements, and other associated
documents are recorded in the County Recorder’s Office with the final plat. All
recording costs shall be the responsibility of the developer.
(Ord. 33, § 8.3, passed 1-21-92; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11)
§ 151.138 CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   Construction plans for the required improvements shall conform in all
respects with the ordinances and standards of the county. Construction
documents shall be prepared at the subdivider’s expense by a professional
engineer who is registered in the State of Minnesota, and said plans shall
contain his or her certification. Such plans together with the quantities of
construction items shall be submitted to the County Engineer for his or her
approval and for his or her estimate of the total cost of the required
improvements. Upon approval they shall become a part of the contract required
by §
151.137. One set of the reproducible MYLAR of the plans approved by the County
Engineer plus two copies shall be furnished to the county.
(Ord. 33, § 8.4, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.140 INSPECTION.
   All required improvements on the site that are to be installed under the
provisions of this chapter shall be inspected during the course of construction
by the County Engineer or his or her agent at the subdivider’s expense.
(Ord. 33, § 8.5, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.141 COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Temporary improvement. The applicant shall build and pay for all costs
of temporary improvements required by the County Board and shall maintain same
for the period specified by the County Board. Prior to construction of any
temporary facility or improvement, the developer shall file with the county a
separate suitable financial guarantee for temporary facilities, which guarantee
shall ensure that the temporary facilities will be properly constructed,
maintained, and removed.
   (B)   Governmental units. Governmental units to which these guarantee and
contract provisions apply may file in lieu of said contract or financial
guarantee a certified resolution or ordinance from officers or agencies
authorized to act in their behalf, agreeing to comply with the provisions of
this section.
   (C)   Failure to complete improvement. For a subdivision for which no
financial guarantee has been posted, if the improvements are not completed
within the period specified by the County Board in the resolution approving the
plat, the approval shall be deemed to have expired. In those cases where a
financial guarantee has been posted and required improvements have not been
installed within the terms of such development contract, the county may
thereupon declare the development contract to be in default and require that
all the improvements be installed regardless of the extent of the building
development at the time the financial guarantee is declared to be in default.
   (D)   Acceptance of dedication offers. Acceptance of formal offers of
dedication of improvements required pursuant to this chapter shall be by
resolution of the responsible authority. The approval by the County Board of a
subdivision plat shall not be deemed to constitute or imply the acceptance by
the responsible authority of any improvements required pursuant to this
chapter. The County Board may require said plat to be endorsed with appropriate
notes to this effect.
   (E)   Release or reduction of financial guarantee
      (1)   Certification of satisfactory completion. The County Board shall
not release nor reduce a financial guarantee until the County Engineer has
certified that all required improvements have been satisfactorily completed and
until the applicant’s engineer or surveyor has certified to the Engineer,
through submission of detailed record plans, survey plat of the subdivision,
indicating location, dimensions, materials, and other information required by
the County Board or Engineer, that the layout of the line and grade of all
public improvements is in accordance with construction plans for the
subdivision and that the improvements are completed, are ready for acceptance
by the responsible authority and are free and clear of any and all liens and
encumbrances. Upon such approval and recommendation, the County Board in the
name of the responsible authority shall thereafter accept the improvements for
dedication in accordance with the established procedure.
      (2)   Reduction of financial guarantee. A financial guarantee shall be
reduced upon actual acceptance of public improvements and then only to the
ratio that the cost of public improvement dedicated bears to the total cost of
public improvements for plat. In the event that the financial guarantee is
reduced below 125% of the cost of the work to be completed, the county may stop
work on the subdivision until the guarantee deposit is replenished to the
amount of 125% of the cost of the remaining development work.
(Ord. 33, § 8.6, passed 1-21-92; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11)
§ 151.142 MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall be required to maintain all improvements on the
individual subdivided lots and provide for snow removal on streets and
sidewalks, if required, until acceptance of said improvements by the
responsible authority. If there are any certificates of occupancy on a street
not dedicated to the responsible authority, the responsible authority may on 12
hours’ notice plow the street or effect emergency repairs and charge same to
applicant.
   (B)   The subdivider shall be required to file a guarantee with the
responsible authority prior to acceptance in an amount considered adequate by
the County Engineer and in a form satisfactory to the County Attorney, in order
to assure the satisfactory condition of the required improvements, including
all lot improvements on the individual subdivided lots for a period of two
years after the date of their acceptance by the responsible authority and
dedication of same to the responsible authority.
(Ord. 33, § 8.7, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.143 DEFERRAL OR WAIVER OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The County Board may defer or waive at the time of final plat approval
subject to appropriate conditions, the provision of any or all such
improvements that, in its judgment, are not requisite in the interests of the
public health, safety, and general welfare, or which are inappropriate because
of inadequacy or lack of connecting facilities.
   (B)   Whenever it is deemed necessary by the County Board to defer the
construction of any improvement required herein because of incompatible grades,
future planning, inadequate or lack of connecting facilities, or for other
reasons, the applicant shall pay his or her share of the costs of the future
improvements to the county prior to signing of the final subdivision plat, or
the applicant may post a financial guarantee ensuring completion of said
improvements upon demand of the county.
(Ord. 33, § 8.8, passed 1-21-92)
§ 151.144 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY PRIOR TO
THE COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   As provided for elsewhere in this chapter, building permits shall not be
issued prior to the approval of the final plat. The developer’s agreement may
provide further restrictions on the issuance of building permits. Certificates
of occupancy shall not be issued until such time as adequate improvements have
been made and accepted on the site. Minimum improvements shall be functioning
sewer, water, electricity, provision for heating, and sufficient improvement of
the street to provide all weather access by the prospective occupant and by
police and fire equipment. Adequacy of improvements shall be determined by the
County Engineer and responsible authority. No building permit shall be issued
for the final 10% of lots in a subdivision or if 10% be less than two, for the
final two lots of a subdivision, until all public improvements required by the
County Board for the plat have been fully completed and dedicated to the
responsible authority. However, this provision does not require the county to
issue any building permits until all improvements required by the county have
been fully completed and accepted by the county.
(Ord. 33, § 8.9, passed 1-21-92)
SUBDIVISION DESIGN AND PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT/INSTALLATION STANDARDS
§ 151.155 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with statutes, ordinances, regulations, plans. In addition
to the standards and guidelines established herein, all subdivisions and plats
shall comply with all applicable statutory regulations, this subchapter, the
zoning code, building and housing codes, the comprehensive plan including the
comprehensive sewer policy plan and the capital improvement program, the
official map, all applicable state rules and Metropolitan Waste Control
Commission regulations.
   (B)    Plats straddling local government boundaries. In cases where a plat
straddles two or more local governmental boundaries, lot lines shall be laid
out so as not to cross corporate limits. If access is required across land in
another local government or county, the Planning Commission may request
assurance from the local County Board’s Attorney and/or Engineer that the
access is legally established and adequately improved or that a performance
bond has been executed and is in sufficient amount to assure construction of
the access road.
   (C)   Land unsuitable for development. Land which is unsuitable for urban
development due to flooding, improper drainage, inadequate water supply, land
unsuitable for on-site sewers, topography or other features shall not be
subdivided or developed unless adequate methods to solve the problems are
formulated by the developer and approved by the County Board.
   (D)   No duplication of names. The proposed name of the subdivision shall
not duplicate nor approximate the name of any other subdivision within the
county.
§ 151.156 LOT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Lot arrangement. Lots shall be arranged such that they comply with the
zoning code and obtain driveway access from a public road or private access
road. Orientation for solar access is encouraged.
   (B)   Lot dimensions. Lot dimensions and overall size shall meet the minimum
standards of the zoning code. Lot lines shall be at right angles or radial to
the road right-of-way. Variations may be permitted when the subdivision is
designed to maximize solar access.
   (C)   Corner lots. Dimensions of corner lots shall be sufficient to permit
the erection of buildings observing the minimum front yard setback requirement
for both streets. The width shall in any case be increased a minimum of 20 feet
over the minimum standard for the interior lots.
   (D)   Double frontage lots. Double frontage lots shall not be permitted
except where necessary to provide the separation of residential development
from traffic arterials or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and
orientation. Double frontage lots shall have an additional depth of 50 feet for
screen plantings or other buffer.
   (E)   Butt lots. The use of butt lots shall be discouraged.
   (F)   Access. All lots created shall have access to a public road either via
a public road, a private road or a driveway. All private access roads must
intersect with a public road. Developments occurring under provisions of
flexible zoning techniques shall provide for equivalent access. Single-family
residential lots and similar uses shall utilize no more than one access to a
public road, with the exception of the case where alleys are installed, one
access to the alley may also be established. Access to non-single-family type
residential developments and to commercial or industrial developments shall be
determined during the development review. Traffic safety and protection of the
carrying capacity of the street shall be the primary consideration. Access to
lots shall comply with the zoning code and the comprehensive plan. Where a lot
can be subdivided so as to have a choice of access on streets of different
functional classifications as designated in the comprehensive plan, the lot
shall be subdivided so as to derive access from the street of lower functional
classification. Where accesses are combined in order to meet separation or
other requirements, separate accesses shall not be granted in the future.
   (G)   Lot remnants. Lot remnants which are less than the standard area and/
or dimensional requirements must be added to adjacent or surrounding lots
unless it can be demonstrated that the remnant can be combined with future
contiguous development, in which case it shall be designated an outlot.
(Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11)
§ 151.157 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Length. Blocks in residential subdivisions shall be a minimum of 400
feet long and normally not exceed 1,000 feet in length except where topography
or other conditions justify a departure from this maximum. In blocks longer
than 800 feet, the County Board may require that pedestrian ways be located
near the center of the block.
   (B)   Width. With the exception of lots abutting a major street to which
access is not permitted, residential lots shall be of sufficient size to permit
two tiers of lots of appropriate depth. Commercial or industrial lots shall be
of sufficient width to accommodate structures and required off-street parking,
access and loading facilities.
§ 151.158 ROADS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Topography and arrangement. All streets shall be arranged to set the
finish floor elevations of structures above the street elevation or so as to
prevent the flow of water from the street and driveway into the residence.
Proposed streets shall be properly integrated with existing streets and
proposed thoroughfares.
   (B)   Access to an improved street. Lots to be subdivided shall have
frontage on a private access road or a public road.
   (C)   Grading and improvements. Roads shall be graded and improved in a
manner in conformance with township plans and specifications, the standards in
this subchapter, and in accordance with construction plans as approved by the
County Engineer.
   (D)   Access to principal, intermediate, and minor arterials. Where a
subdivision borders on or contains an existing or proposed arterial street,
direct access to individual lots from such street shall be in accordance with §
151.156(G). Service roads parallel to arterials shall be permitted with access
occurring at points as shown or specified in the comprehensive plan.
   (E)   Street names. Street names shall be determined by the county upon
recommendation of the developer and consistent with the county street naming
plan. Roads which are continuations of existing and/or planned streets shall
have the same name.
   (F)   Dead-end streets. Permanent dead-end streets are discouraged.
Temporary dead end streets may be permitted providing that the right-of-way is
extended to the property line, a T or L turn-around or a temporary cul-de-sac
is provided and length is the same as the cul-de-sac standard.
   (G)   Minor streets. Minor streets shall be designed to discourage use by
non-local traffic.
   (H)   Half streets. Half streets are not permitted.
   (I)   Continuation of existing streets. New street alignments shall permit
and encourage continuation of existing street.
   (J)   Projection of streets. When a plat includes only a portion of the
subdivider’s total land holding, the County Board shall require a tentative
projection of the proposed future street system for the balance of the property
and to connect with adjacent property.
   (K)   Alleys. Alleys or other acceptable service areas not less than 24 feet
in width shall be provided in all commercial and industrial areas. Public
streets shall not be used as alleys or service areas. Alleys shall not be
permitted in residential areas except as a continuation of an existing alley.
In such cases, the minimum width of the alley continuation shall be 16 feet or
shall be the same as the existing alley whichever is greater.
   (L)   Reserve strips. The creation of reserve strips, also known as spite
strips, shall not be permitted abutting or at the end of a proposed street in
such a manner as to deny access from adjacent property to such a street.
   (M)   Street signs. The developer shall be required to furnish street signs,
regulatory signs, warning signs and posts in accordance with county standards.
   (N)   Street lighting. The developer shall be responsible for the electric
bill for street lighting until 50% of the total units in the project are
constructed and occupied. In the case of multi-phase developments, the
developer shall be responsible for all electric charges until 50% of the first
phase is constructed and occupied with all subsequent phases in the same
manner.
§ 151.159 SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Location. Refer to the subsurface sewage treatment system regulations,
Chapter 52 and zoning code regulations,
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Design. Drainfields must be designed so that there is a three-foot
separation between the first instance of mottling shown in the soil borings and
the bottom of the drainfield trench. Design must be in accordance with the
Carver County On-site Sewer Ordinance.
(Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11)
§ 151.160 NATURAL FEATURES AND AMENITIES.
   (A)   General. Existing features which add value to a proposed development
or to the local government as a whole such as trees, watercourses, waterbodies,
areas of historic significance and similar irreplaceable features, shall be
preserved in the design of the subdivision. No trees shall be removed from any
subdivision nor any change of grade of the land effected until approval of the
preliminary plat has been granted. All trees on the plat required to be
retained shall be reserved, and all trees where required shall be welled and
protected against change of grade. The preliminary plat shall show the number,
species, size and location of all proposed shade trees along the street side of
each lot.
   (B)   Trees.
      (1)   Shade trees to be planted by developer. If trees are to be planted
in a subdivision they shall conform to these standards. Any trees are to be
planted at least within five feet outside of the planned right-of-way of the
road or roads within and abutting the subdivision. As a condition of
subdivision approval the developer may be required to provide new trees.
      (2)   Species/size. New trees to be provided shall be approved by the
county and shall be planted in accordance with the requirements of the county.
Such trees shall have a minimum trunk diameter as determined by the county, but
shall not be seedlings. Only long-lived shade trees, of varying species,
acceptable to the county shall be planted, in accordance with the local tree
plan if applicable.
   (C)   Steep slopes. Subdivision design shall be consistent with limitations
presented by steep slopes and any restrictions on development on slopes in the
zoning code. Subdivision design and construction on slopes of 12% to 18% shall
provide for control of erosion, sedimentation, and slippage both during the
construction/installation of improvements and utilities and of structures. If
the subdivision includes the development of land with slopes greater than 18%,
the development contract and/or a restriction of the deed/title shall provide
to the design of the site and structure by a certified, registered engineer. In
cases where the design of the subdivision provides for a prohibition or
limitation of development on steep slopes or other sensitive area, the
prohibition or limitation may be enforced as a restriction or an easement to be
filed as covenants, dedication to the unit of government, or other suitable
method implementing the prohibition or limitation.
   (D)   Soils.
      (1)   The design of the subdivision and the design and installation of
improvements shall take into account the nature of the soils on the land to be
subdivided. The comprehensive plan and the Carver County Soils Survey identify
the areas that have constraints for development due to soil conditions and
identify the type of constraint. Areas with severe constraints as identified by
the soil survey are generally developable, but may need drainage, erosion
control, special building or site design, grading, fill or other action to
solve soils problems. Any action taken to alleviate soils problems shall
require the specific review and approval of the County Engineer. Areas
identified as having very severe constraints for development should generally
be considered as undevelopable for residences or other urban development and
should be planned for uses that can be accommodated given the soil conditions.
      (2)   The County Engineer or Platting Officer may request soil borings to
determine soil conditions in any subdivision. Soil borings may be required in
any areas indicated as having severe or very severe constraints for
development. The location, depth and number of borings required shall be
determined upon recommendation of the County Engineer or Platting Officer.
   (E)   Watercourses and waterbodies.
      (1)   For the purposes of these regulations, waterbodies and watercourses
shall be those waterbodies and watercourses shown on the MN/DNR inventory of
protected waters map as protected waters or wetlands and shall also include any
similar areas as designated in the comprehensive plan or by floodplain maps.
      (2)   In areas where flood information is unavailable, structures shall
have a floor elevation a minimum of three feet above the ordinary high water
level or the outlet level, whichever is higher. Ordinary high water level shall
be determined by DNR data, vegetation analysis or other method as approved by
the County Engineer.
      (3)   The county shall require the dedication of an easement to the
elevation of the ordinary high water level for waterbodies not otherwise
protected and an easement at least to the 100-year flood protection elevation
of any waterbody or watercourse having a flood potential. The county may
require the further dedication of easements around wetlands, watercourses, and
waterbodies in order to protect and preserve them and/or for the storage and
flow of storm water run-off.
   (F)   Land in the floodplain district.
      (1)   Review criteria. All lots within the floodplain districts as
designated in the Carver County Zoning Code shall contain a building site as
defined in the zoning code at or above the regulatory flood protection
elevation. All subdivisions shall have water and sewage treatment facilities
that comply with the provisions of this subchapter and the Carver County zoning
and on-site sewer provisions. All lots intended for human habitation or
occupation shall have road access both to the subdivision and to the individual
building sites no lower than two feet below the regulatory flood protection
elevation. For all subdivisions in the floodplain, the floodway and flood
fringe boundaries, the regulatory flood protection elevation and the required
elevation of all access roads shall be clearly labeled on all required
subdivision drawings and platting documents.
      (2)   Floodway/flood fringe determinations in the General Floodplain
District. In the General Floodplain District, applicants shall provide the
information required in §
152.149 to determine the 100-year flood elevation, the Floodway and Flood
Fringe District boundaries and the regulatory flood protection elevation for
the subdivision site.
      (3)   Removal of special flood hazard area designation. The Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established criteria for removing the
special flood hazard area designation for certain structures properly elevated
on fill above the 100-year flood elevation. FEMA’s requirements incorporate
specific fill compaction and side slope protection standards for multi-
structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should be investigated
prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of special flood hazard
area designation will be requested.
(Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11)
§ 151.161 ENGINEERING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   As set forth in various sections of the county’s ordinances and
these standards, developers of property within the jurisdiction of the
governmental unit’s subdivision provisions are required to submit certain plans
and specifications for review and approval by the County Engineer. These
include such items as grading plans, drainage plans, topographic surveys,
plats, street and utility plans and specifications, and any other plans or
specifications deemed necessary by the County Engineer. These plans and
specifications shall be prepared by competent professionals registered in
Minnesota.
      (2)   The professional services required of the developer might include
an architect, land surveyor, planner and engineer. The engineering services
shall include not only preparation of plans and specifications but field
staking and inspection certification in order to ensure the County Engineer
that the completed project is in conformance with the approved plans and
specifications.
   (B)   Procedure. When the development contract provides that the developer
shall install any or all improvements, the following procedures shall be
followed. When the county or township is to install all or part of the
improvements, substantially the same procedure shall be followed, as
appropriate, and any contractors employed by the county shall abide by these
procedures.
      (1)   Developer shall submit plans, specifications and copies of all
design calculations to the County Engineer for review and approval. Copies of
approved permits required by all regulatory agencies shall be furnished to the
County Engineer prior to construction. These plans are to be prepared by a
registered professional engineer as defined by the appropriate state statutes
and shall be in accordance with these standards as outlined herein. The
comprehensive plan shall be adhered to in design considerations. All sanitary
sewer and watermain testing shall be completed and copies of service ties
submitted to the County Engineer prior to issuance of any service connection
permits.
      (2)   Developer shall submit a stormwater pollution prevention plan
(SWPPP) and/or appropriate applications as required by the watershed district
or Water Management Organization (WMO) to the governing body for review and
approval, and to the watershed district, or similar agency, if one exists for
review and, if required, approval.
      (3)   The developer shall be responsible for not only plans and
specifications preparation, but also for providing staking and inspection of
said improvement. The developer shall be responsible for all costs related to
plan and specification preparation, staking and inspection.
      (4)   Copies of all bids, change orders, and the like, shall be forwarded
to the County Engineer.
      (5)   Developer shall furnish to the county a list of contractors being
considered for retention by the developer for the performance of the work
required of this contractor along with a list of all subcontractors performing
work on the project. The developer shall also require his or her contractor to
furnish to the county a certified copy of a financial guarantee in favor of the
developer, in a form and amount acceptable to the county, for all proposed work
and shall maintain the financial guarantee for the period of one year
commencing on the date of final payment for purposes of a warranty.
      (6)   Guaranty period. If within the time prescribed by law or by the
terms of any applicable special guarantees required by the contract documents,
any of the work is found to be defective or not in accordance with the contract
documents, the contractor shall correct it promptly after receipt of written
notice from the owner to do so unless the owner has previously given the
contractor a specific written acceptance of the particular defective or
nonconforming condition. The owner shall give prompt notice after discovery of
the condition.
      (7)   The development contractor shall take out and maintain in full
force for the duration of the contract the insurance designated below. Further,
the contractor shall submit certificates of insurance coverage to the county.
If any section of the work entails special hazards, the contractor shall
provide riders to the public liability and property damage insurance to provide
appropriate coverage.
         (a)   Worker’s compensation. The contractor shall take out and
maintain during the life of the contract worker’s compensation insurance for
all his or her employees employed at the work site and shall require all his or
her subcontractors to maintain insurance similarly. If any employees are
engaged in hazardous work not covered by worker’s compensation insurance, the
contractor shall provide, and shall require his or her subcontractors to
provide, adequate protection from employers’ liability insurance for protection
of employees not otherwise protected.
         (b)   Public liability and property damage. The contractor shall take
out and maintain during the life of the contract, public liability insurance
and property damage insurance covering personal injury (as determined by the
development contract), including death, and claims for property damage which
may arise out of work or the work of his or her subcontractors, or by one
directly or indirectly employed by either of them.
         (c)   Automobile liability. The contractor shall take out and maintain
during the life of the contract, automobile liability insurance (as determined
by the development contract) on all used in connection with the contract,
whether owned, non-owned, or hired.
         (d)   Fire. The contractor shall carry full insurance against loss by
fire and wind damage upon all materials in place or stored at the site for
installation. This provision does not exclude materials partially paid for by
the owner. This insurance shall be for the full insurable value of this
material and shall be kept in full force until final acceptance and payment for
the work by the owner.
         (e)   Proof of coverage. The contractor shall submit certification of
the required coverages to the county. If any section of the work entails
special hazards, the contractor shall provide riders to the public liability
and property damage insurance to provide protection from these special hazards.
      (8)   The developer may furnish and erect a project identification sign
on the project site in a location to be approved by the county. The sign may be
erected prior to construction and may remain until the development is complete.
The sign shall be removed by the developer upon completion of the development.
The sign shall meet the requirements of
Chapter 154, Sign Regulations of this code of ordinances.
      (9)   Any changes to the approved plans and specifications shall be
approved by the County Engineer in writing before they are made.
      (10)   The County Engineer will provide periodic inspections of
improvements and shall be notified of all tests required so its representatives
can be present at the time tests are made.
      (11)   Upon completion of all the work required, the County Engineer and
any other designated representative of the county, a representative of the
township, a representative of the contractor and a representative of the
developer’s engineer, will make a final inspection of the work. Before the
final payment is made to the contractor by the developer, all work shall be
completed to the satisfaction of the County Engineer and in accordance with the
approved plans and specifications, the developer’s engineer shall submit a
written statement attesting to same. Acceptance of said work shall be made by
resolution of the County Board upon the recommendation of the County Engineer.
(Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11)
§ 151.162 STANDARD PLANS.
   In order to standardize the construction and record drawings, the following
set of guidelines were developed to make all plans or drawings uniform. The
guidelines are to be adhered to insofar as they are practical, but may be
altered by the Platting Officer depending upon the project.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Incorporated in the set of plans shall be a sheet indicating the
entire project with corresponding sheet numbers on each separate sheet and
index.
      (2)   All record plans are to be mylar sepias from inked and clearly
legible drawings with unnecessary construction information removed.
      (3)   All sheets are to be 22 x 34.
      (4)   Scale: horizontal scale- 1 inch = 50 feet; vertical scale- 1 inch =
10 feet.
      (5)   The following are preferred locations for utilities:
         (a)   Sanitary sewer: On center line of street right-of-way or
easement.
         (b)   Watermain: When the watermain is to be placed at the same level
as the sewer line, 10 feet north or west of the street right-of-way or easement
centerline. When the watermain will be at least 18 inches in elevation above
the sanitary sewer, the watermain are to be shown 5 feet west or north of the
street right-of-way or easement centerline.
         (c)   Storm sewer: On the south or east side of street right-of-way or
center line of easement.
      (6)   A title block in the lower right corner of each plan sheet
indicating project description and sheet information clearly labeled.
      (7)   Construction details are to be on one separate plan sheet and
referenced to the proper sheet or combined in one section in the
specifications.
      (8)   The profile is to be directly below the plan with the stationing
aligned as closely as practical. Stationing is to be shown on the plan view as
well as the profile.
      (9)   All parcels are to be properly labeled with lot and block numbers
and plat name, or parcel number in unplatted areas. Developed parcels are to
have their address shown on the plan.
      (10)   All streets are to be clearly labeled.
      (11)   All match-line breaks are to be clean with reference points
clearly marked. All plans which are broken by a match-line are to be on the
same or consecutive sheets.
      (12)   Existing utilities are to be shown, stationed, and labeled as
existing.
      (13)   Approximate locations of gas, electric and telephone lines are to
be shown.
      (14)   Right-of-way and pavement or curb and gutter alignment data are to
be shown.
      (15)   All plans are to have properly placed north arrows and bar scale
(graphic scale) for each plan on the sheet.
      (16)   Bench marks are to be placed on all sheets.
   (B)   Specific requirements.
      (1)   Stationing of sanitary sewer wyes are to be indicated as in front
of the stationing.
      (2)   All sanitary services are to be drawn on the plan to the
constructed length and length noted. Indicated if jacked.
      (3)   If sanitary sewer wye only is constructed, it is to be noted as wye
only after the stationing.
      (4)   The approximate invert elevation of all sanitary sewer services are
to be shown on the plans. If risers are placed, the height of each is to be
indicated on the plans and each are to be drawn on the profile, and indicate
height of risers.
      (5)   All manholes are to be numbered in both plan and profile.
      (6)   All hydrants are to be stationed on the bottom of the profile.
      (7)   Stationing of water corporation cock is to be indicated by “w” in
front of stationing.
      (8)   All water services are to be drawn to constructed length and length
noted if other than to property line. Indicate if jacked.
      (9)   All gate valves are to be tied with at least two ties using the
following priority:
         (a)   Fire hydrants;
         (b)   Manholes;
         (c)   Catch basins, if curb and gutter is installed;
         (d)   Buildings or other permanent structures;
         (e)   Power poles, trees, other semi-permanent items;
         (f)   Stationing from hydrants, manholes, catch basins, if over 100
feet.
      (10)   The size and type of all sanitary sewer and water services are to
be noted on the plans.
      (11)   On combination sewer and water projects, services may be placed in
the same trench with sanitary sewer services three feet downstream from water
services. This shall be noted on the plans and “s & w” are to be placed before
the stationing.
      (12)   All services are to be tied with at least two ties using the
following priority:
         (a)   The served structure with address noted;
         (b)   Neighboring structures with address noted;
         (c)   Fire hydrants;
         (d)   Manholes, catch basins, if curb and gutter is installed;
         (e)   Other permanent structures, bridges, and the like;
         (f)   Power poles, trees, other semi-permanent items;
         (g)   Stationing from hydrant, manhole, catch basins. These may be
used with back of curb distance.
      (13)   All sewer and watermains are to be shown in profile with the
appropriate information such as size, material, grades, invert elevations, and
the like. Watermain profiles may be omitted if watermain is in existing or
proposed street, if the street grade is indicated, and if the depth is noted.
(Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11)
§ 151.163 ROADWAY AND UTILITY DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application. The following standards are generally accepted design
standards and in some cases are standards mandated by the state. These
standards are applicable to the typical situation. However, there are
situations where these standards may not be appropriate due to unique
topography, environmental factors, or a non-typical development proposal. In
response to these situations, other standards may be appropriate. These
standards are to be deviated from only upon the approval of the County
Engineer, and watershed district or Water Management Organization (WMO) as
deemed appropriate.
   (B)   Right-of-way and road width. Right-of-way and road width shall conform
to the standards in the county and township comprehensive plans, all applicable
ordinances and these standards. Roadways shall be considered in their relation
to existing and planned roads, to reasonable circulation of traffic, to
topographical conditions, to run-off of storm water, to public convenience and
safety and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the area to be
served.
      (1)   Right-of-way. Right-of-way width shall conform to the widths in the
table found in the appendix to this chapter. If there are conflicts, the widths
as in the comprehensive plan shall govern. Cul-de-sac configurations are to
have a minimum 70-foot radius for rural parcels and a minimum 60-foot radius
for urban parcels.
      (2)   Road width. Road width shall conform to the standards in the table
in the appendix to this chapter. If there are conflicts, the widths as in the
comprehensive plan shall govern.
      (3)   Road grades.  
         (a)   All center line gradients must be in accordance with the grade
percent in the table in the appendix to this chapter. Wherever feasible, road
grades within 50 feet at the curb line or shoulder line of an intersection
shall be between .05% and 3.0%, and the cross-road grade shall be between 0.5%
and 3.0%.
         (b)   Road grades may exceed the maximums presented above only upon
demonstration that the grade standards cannot reasonably be complied with, the
proposed grade will not cause a traffic hazard, impede the normal flow of
traffic, and upon approval of the County Engineer.
      (4)   Road alignment. Horizontal and vertical alignment for principal,
intermediate, minor arterials and collectors are to conform to the guidelines
in the Minnesota Department of Transportation Road Design Manual and the State
Aid Manual where applicable. All other roads are to be as follows:
         (a)   Horizontal alignment. Center line deflections are to be
connected by a radius of not less than 100 feet.
         (b)   Sag vertical curves. Minimum length shall be 25 times the
algebraic difference in percent of the intersecting grades.
         (c)   Crest vertical curves. Minimum length shall be 17 times the
algebraic difference in percent of the intersecting grades.
         (d)   Road jogs. Road jogs shall have a center line offset of 150 feet
or more when applied to local roads and 300 feet or more when applied to
collector roads. Road jogs are to be avoided for arterial roads.
         (e)   Minimum tangent length. Minimum tangent length between curves
are to be 75 feet.
      (5)   Road design loads. Roads classified as principal, intermediate or
minor arterial are to be designed to a minimum nine-ton loading. All local
residential roads are to be designed to a minimum five-ton loading. A seven-ton
loading is recommended on local roads and is required on all collector roads.
Roads serving or connecting to commercial and industrial areas are to be
designed to a minimum nine-ton load. The designs are to be in accordance with
the current MNDOT flexible pavement design standards. All calculations along
with a soils report are to be submitted with the plans for review and approval
by the County Engineer.
      (6)   Road intersections.
         (a)   The angles formed by the intersecting roads are to be at 90
degrees. A maximum 15-degree deviation may be permitted when circumstances will
not allow a 90-degree angle. All other situations are to be avoided.
         (b)   Intersections of more than four corners are prohibited.
         (c)   Road intersection radii are to be a minimum 30 feet. Road and
alley intersections are to be rounded by a radius of not less than 6 feet. The
intersection of the straight section with the turn- around of a cul-de-sac road
are to be rounded by a radius of not less than 30 feet. Center islands are to
be prohibited in all cul-de-sac turnarounds.
      (7)   Private roads. Private roads may be permitted for access to PUDs,
townhouses or other such development where an association or other suitable
mechanism is provided to ensure maintenance and upkeep. The requirements for
private roads shall be the same as the requirement for public roads.
   (C)   Drainage facilities and erosion control.
      (1)   General requirements. The following shall apply, in addition to the
stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP), watershed district or Water
Management Organization (WMO), or similar agency, if one exists for review and,
if required, approval. Detailed plans and calculations are to be submitted
along with the road plans for all drainage works. The plans are to address the
drainage for the entire area to be subdivided and demonstrate how the drainage
related to the drainage of the surrounding lands. The drawings are to show
location, capacity, type and size of any culverts and storm sewers or other
drainage facilities. Storm water and sedimentation retention basins may be
required.
      (2)   Surface water runoff systems. Surface water runoff systems are to
be as follows:
         (a)   Consider future expansion to undeveloped areas.
         (b)   Base design on current adopted comprehensive plan.
         (c)   Minimum culvert size of 18 inches on rural sections.
      (3)   Storm water retention and sedimentation ponds. Storm water
retention and sedimentation ponds are to be as follows: the pond or ponds are
to be constructed with initial phases of site grading or road construction and
are to be excavated one foot below finished bottom elevation for sediment
storage during construction.
      (4)   Erosion control barriers. Erosion control barriers are to be as
follows: the developer shall be responsible for maintaining barriers in a
functional condition until such time as the barriers are deemed no longer
necessary by the governing body.
      (5)   Drainage easement.
         (a)   Easements are to be a minimum of 20 feet in width centered above
the pipe on the storm sewer system outside of right-of-way areas.
         (b)   Easements for above ground drainage are to be a minimum of ten
feet on either side of the projected high water level.
         (c)   Easements around storage ponds are to include the 100-year high
water level.
         (d)   All these easements are to be dedicated to the public unless
otherwise requested by the county.
      (6)   Buildings adjacent to storage ponds. Buildings shall not be
constructed within 50 feet of the 100-year high water level.
   (D)   Facilities - other than sewer, water, drainage.
      (1)   Location. All utility facilities, excepting those addressed in
divisions (B) and (C), and including but not limited to gas, electric,
telephone, and cable television are to be located underground throughout the
subdivision. General location and the location of junction boxes, transformers,
and similar structures are to be located as specified by the County Engineer.
      (2)   Easements. Easements centered on all lot lines are to be provided
for utilities/facilities and said easements are to be at least 10 feet wide on
either side of the lot line. Where topographical or other conditions or the
design of the subdivision makes impractical the inclusion of the utilities
within the rear lot line easements, perpetual, unobstructed easements at least
20 feet in width centered on the lot line are to be provided along the side lot
lines with satisfactory access either to the road or rear lot line.
(Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11)
§ 151.164 ROADWAY, UTILITY AND GENERAL CONSTRUCTION AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Roadways.
      (1)   General requirements. All grading, gravel base, concrete curb and
gutter, bituminous curb and bituminous paving shall conform to the current
requirements of the Minnesota Department of Transportation Standard
Specifications for Highway Construction.
      (2)   Excavation and embankment.
         (a)   All operations are to be done in accordance with MNDOT
Specifications No. 2105. All compaction will be done by the ordinary compaction
method except as follows at the County Engineer’s option, density tests may be
taken to evaluate the compaction achieved. Where density tests are taken to
evaluate the compaction, the fill shall meet the requirements of MNDOT
Specification No. 2105 for embankment compaction by the specified density
methods. In areas of cut where no utility construction is proposed, the top 12
inches below the finished subgrade shall be excavated and recompacted to a
density of not less than 100% of maximum density.
         (b)   Granular borrow and select granular borrow are to be the
requirements of MNDOT Specification No. 3149, maximum particle size to be six
inches in diameter.
      (3)   Gravel surface, gravel base, bituminous base, bituminous wearing
course and bituminous seal coat.
         (a)   Gravel surface and base shall be class 5 or class 2 aggregate
meeting the requirements of MNDOT Specification No. 3138 unless otherwise
approved by the County Engineer.
         (b)   Bituminous base and wearing course construction is to meet the
requirements of MNDOT Specification Nos. 2331 and 2341, respectively. Recycled
bituminous base MNDOT Specification No. 2332 is also permitted.
         (c)   Bituminous seal coat shall be constructed in accordance with
MNDOT Specification No. 2356. The bituminous material and aggregate type are to
be determined based on traffic volumes and service conditions.
      (4)   Staged construction.
         (a)   All roads constructed in conjunction with sanitary sewer,
watermain and/or storm sewer improvements are to be completed over the course
of two construction seasons. The initial phase of construction shall include
the complete installation of the underground utilities, gravel base, curb and
gutter and bituminous base course within the roadway areas. The bituminous
wearing course shall be completed after at least one winter but before the
third winter.
         (b)   The minimum thickness of bituminous base MNDOT 2331 shall be two
inches during the interim period.
         (c)   All manholes and valve boxes are to be installed in the
bituminous base course and left ½-inch below the surface throughout the winter
and then raised to ½-inch below the final surface prior to placing the
bituminous wearing course.
   (B)   Utility construction restoration.
      (1)   General requirements. The utilities being referred to pertain to
sanitary sewers, storm sewers and watermains. The following requirements are to
pertain to each utility unless specifically noted.
      (2)   Backfilling and compaction.
         (a)   Utility trenches are to be backfilled in lifts approximately
eight inches in thickness and mechanically compacted to 100% of maximum density
in the upper three feet and 95% of maximum density below the upper three feet
in all roadway areas. Soil compaction shall be in accordance with MNDOT
Specification No. 2105 for compaction by the specified density method. The zone
around the pipe shall be bedded and compacted to industry standards depending
upon the pipe material and depth of installation.
         (b)   Where utilities are installed in easement areas, the top 12
inches shall be compacted to 100% maximum density and the area below the top 12
inches to 95% maximum density.
         (c)   The compaction requirements for the utilities include all branch
services and stubs as outlined above.
   (C)   General restoration.
      (1)   General requirements. All areas disturbed by construction are to be
restored to a condition equal to or better than what existed prior to
construction.
      (2)   Sod. Sod shall be required where improved lawn areas are disturbed.
Sod shall be densely rooted blue grass or other approved grasses free of
noxious weeds and objectionable grasses. After placement, sod shall be pressed
into the underlying soil by rolling or tamping. Pegging of sod shall be
required in ditches and drainage channels and on steeper slopes.
      (3)   Seed.  
         (a)   Seed shall be required where construction activities disturb
unimproved areas. Seed and application are to conform to mixture #700 under
Minnesota Department of Transportation Specification Nos. 2575 and 3876. Seed
shall be applied uniformly at 75 pounds per acre.
         (b)   In certain areas, seed and mulching may be required. All
mulching shall be done in accordance with MNDOT Specification Nos. 2575 and
3882 for Type 1 mulch.
         (c)   In areas of steep slopes, seeding with wood fiber blankets may
be substituted for sod. All such work shall be done in accordance with MNDOT
Specification Nos. 2575, 3876 and 3885 for wood fiber blankets.
      (4)   Topsoil. Topsoil shall be applied to the restoration areas prior to
sod or seed. Topsoil shall be pulverized black dirt acceptable to the Engineer
and shall be spread to a compacted thickness of three inches.
      (5)   Maintenance of sodded and seeded areas. All sodded and seeded areas
are to be watered and maintained in a satisfactory condition until acceptance
of that portion of the work. Sod and seed that dies, or washes out, prior to
acceptance are to be replaced by the developer.
   (D)   Debris and waste. Waste materials of any kind shall not be buried in
any land or left deposited on any lot or road.
FINANCIAL GUARANTEE
§ 151.175 FINANCIAL GUARANTEE.
   The development contract provided in §
151.137 requires the developer to provide a financial guarantee. The financial
guarantee shall take one of the following forms:
   (A)   Escrow deposit or appropriate surety. An escrow deposit in cash,
certificate of deposit, time certificate or other approved form, shall be made
to the county in the sum equal to 125% of the total cost as estimated by the
County Engineer, including cost of inspection and legal and administrative
costs incurred by the county, of all of the improvements to be furnished and
installed by the subdivider pursuant to the contract and which have not been
installed by the subdivider prior to the approval of the final plat. A separate
guarantee shall be required by the subdivider as part of
Chapter 153, Water Resource Management, to ensure erosion and sediment control
and installation of practices intended to meet the filtration/bioretention/
infiltration requirements.
      (1)   The county shall be entitled to reimburse itself out of said
deposit for any cost and expense incurred by the county for completion of work
in a case of default of the subdivider under said contract, and for any damages
sustained by the county on account of any breach thereof. Upon completion of
the work and termination of any liability to the county of the subdivider under
said contract the balance remaining in said deposit shall be refunded to the
subdivider.
      (2)   Immediately upon completion of said work the county shall submit to
the developer an itemized bill in detail, setting forth the actual cost of
inspection by the county; said bill shall be paid prior to the acceptance of
said work by the county.
   (B)   In lieu of guarantee, the agreement between the county and the
subdivider may provide that the county and/or township shall provide the
engineering services and construct all or any portion of said improvements and
that payment for said improvements will be made to the county as follows:
      (1)   Prior to final plat approval, the county may require payment to the
county in cash, certified check or cashier’s check in an amount of at least
125% of the total estimated cost of said improvements, exclusive of amounts
provided in division (B)(2).
      (2)   The remainder of the total cost thereof shall be assessed against
the benefitted property as determined by the county and shall be payable in
equal annual installments of not to exceed five such annual installments.
Assessments on any lot, which are not fully paid at the time of transfer, shall
be paid in full on or before such time of transfer, or transferred to the new
owner.
   (C)   However, depending upon economic conditions, the total amount of
improvements requested, the area of land to be subdivided and any other
relevant factors, the county shall determine what portion, if any, of said
improvements may be installed and constructed under the terms of this
provision.
(Ord. 33, § 9.0, passed 1-21-92; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11)
APPENDIX: ROAD STANDARDS
RURAL UNDIVIDED 2 LANE ROAD
MINIMUM R-O-W WIDTHS
FUNCTIONAL     DESIGN SPEED - mph
CLASSIFICATION 20 30 40 50 60 70
RURAL UNDIVIDED 2 LANE ROAD
MINIMUM R-O-W WIDTHS
FUNCTIONAL     DESIGN SPEED - mph
CLASSIFICATION 20  30  40  50  60  70
ARTERIAL - (Volumes to be based on projections)
ADT<750        – – – 100 100 100
ADT 750-1000   – – – 110 110 110
ADT > 1000     – – – 120 120 120
DHV 100-400    – – – 120 120 120
DHV > 400      – – – 120 120 120
COLLECTOR - (Volumes to be based on projections)
ADT < 750      – 100 100 100 100 100
ADT 750 - 1000 – 110 110 110 110 110
ADT > 1000     – 120 120 120 120 120
DHV 100 - 400  – 120 120 120 120 120
DHV > 400      – 120 120 120 120 120
LOCAL - (Volumes to be based on projections)
ADT < 100      66  66  66  66  66  –
ADT 100 - 200  66  66  66  66  66  –
ADT 201 - 750  100 100 100 100 100 –
ADT 750 - 1000 110 110 110 110 110 –
ADT > 1000     120 120 120 120 120 –
DHV 100 - 400  120 120 120 120 120 –
DHV > 400      120 120 120 120 120 –
ADT - Average Daily Traffic
DHV - Design Hourly Volume (Usually 13-17% of Rural ADT and 8-12% of
Urban ADT)
RURAL UNDIVIDED 2 LANE ROAD
STANDARD SURFACE WIDTHS
(Outside shoulder to outside shoulder)
FUNCTIONAL     DESIGN SPEED - mph
CLASSIFICATION 20 30 40 50 60 70
RURAL UNDIVIDED 2 LANE ROAD
STANDARD SURFACE WIDTHS
(Outside shoulder to outside shoulder)
FUNCTIONAL     DESIGN SPEED - mph
CLASSIFICATION 20 30 40 50 60 70
ARTERIAL - (Volumes to be based on projections)
ADT < 750      ––32 32 32 32
ADT 750 - 1000 ––36 36 36 36
ADT > 1000     ––40 40 40 40
DHV 100 -400   ––40 40 40 40
DHV > 400      ––44 44 44 44
COLLECTOR - (Volumes to be based on projections)
ADT < 750      –32 32 32 32 32
ADT 750 - 1000 –36 36 36 36 36
ADT > 1000     –40 40 40 40 40
DHV 100 - 400  –40 40 40 40 40
DHV > 400      –40 40 40 40 40
LOCAL* - (Volumes to be based on projections)
ADT < 100      24 24 24 24 24 24
ADT 100 - 200  24 24 24 24 24 24
ADT 201 - 750  32 32 32 32 32 32
ADT 750 - 1000 36 36 36 36 36 36
ADT > 1000     40 40 40 40 40 40
ADT - Average Daily Traffic

DHV - Design Hourly Volume (Usually 13-17% of Rural ADT and 8-12% of
Urban ADT)

* Projected ADT 200 and under applicable to gravel surfaced roadways.
Projected ADT over 200 applicable to bituminous roadways.
RURAL UNDIVIDED 2 LANE ROAD
STANDARD GRADE CONTROLS (PERCENT)
FUNCTIONAL     DESIGN SPEED - mph
CLASSIFICATION 20 30 40 50 60 70
ARTERIAL
LEVEL          –––4  3  3
ROLLING        –––4  4  4
COLLECTOR
LEVEL          7  7  7  6  5  4
ROLLING        10 9  8  7  6  5
LOCAL
LEVEL          8  7  7  6  5  –
ROLLING        11 10 9  8  6  –
 
CHAPTER 152: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Short title
   
152.002   Intent and purpose
   
152.003   Authority
   
152.004   Rules of language construction
   
152.005   Application and jurisdiction
   
152.006   Zoning districts and maps
   
152.007   Road classifications
   
152.008   Aerial photography
   
152.009   Non-conforming uses and structures
   
152.010   Definitions
   
152.011   Fees
Standards
   
152.025   Requirement for compliance
   
152.026   Disclosure of use of hazardous materials
   
152.027   Water management, erosion and sedimentation control
   
152.028   Structures in a public right-of-way
   
152.029   Fences
   
152.030   No garage, tent, trailer
   
152.031   No more than one principal residential structure
   
152.032   Unlicensed/inoperable motor vehicles or accumulation of licensed
motor vehicles
   
152.033   Lot requirements
   
152.034   Setbacks
   
152.035   Subsurface sewage treatment system (SSTS) standards
   
152.036   Access requirements
   
152.037   Height regulations
   
152.038   Parking standards
   
152.039   (Reserved)
   
152.040   Operational standards
   
152.041   Screening standards
Essential Services
   
152.050   Scope
   
152.051   Permitted uses
   
152.052   Conditional use permit required
   
152.053   Public utility buildings and structures
   
152.054   Public/quasi-public facilities
   
152.055   Transmission systems–no en-route consumption
   
152.056   Wireless communications facilities and towers or antennas
   
152.057   Energy production
“A” Agriculture District Regulations
   
152.070   Permitted principal uses
   
152.071   Animal agriculture
   
152.072   Building eligibilities
   
152.073   Permitted accessory uses and structures
   
152.074   Accessory uses and structures requiring an administrative special use
permit
   
152.075   Conditional uses
   
152.076   Conditional uses–agriculture; animal agriculture (allowed in AG
preserve)
   
152.077   Conditional uses–residential related
   
152.078   Conditional uses–additional density options
   
152.079   Conditional/interim uses–activities centered around a home or a home/
farm combination
   
152.080   Conditional/interim uses–large scale activities with unique land or
location needs
   
152.081   Interim use permit
   
152.082   Interim use permit-AG District
Rural Service Overlay District
   
152.095   Purpose
   
152.096   Designation
   
152.097   Conditional use permits
   
152.098   Interim use permits
   
152.099   Service level
Shoreland Overlay District
   
152.108   Statutory authorization and policy
   
152.109   General provisions
   
152.110   (Reserved)
   
152.111   Shoreland classification system
   
152.112   Permitted uses
   
152.113   Conditional uses
   
152.114   Accessory uses
   
152.115   Prohibited uses
   
152.115.1   Land uses by lake, river and stream classification
   
152.115.2   Controlled access lot frontage requirements
   
152.116   Lot size and width, setbacks, and yard requirements
   
152.117   Lowest floor elevation
   
152.118   Performance standards for public and private facilities
   
152.118.1   Water-oriented accessory structures or facilities
   
152.118.2   Mining standards
   
152.119   (Reserved)
   
152.120   Water supply
   
152.121   Sewage disposal requirements
   
152.122   Issuance of permits; SSTS compliance required
   
152.123   Waste disposal
   
152.124   Vegetation alterations
   
152.125   Vegetation removal prohibited
   
152.126   Grading and filling
   
152.127   Alterations at or below OHW
   
152.128   Connection to public water
   
152.129   Steep slopes/bluff impact zone
   
152.130   Wetland evaluation
   
152.131   Erosion control
   
152.131.1   Stormwater management
   
152.132   Signs within the shore impact zone
   
152.133   Significant historic sites
   
152.134   Administration
   
152.135   Nonconformities
Floodplain Overlay District
   
152.143   Statutory authorization, findings of fact, and purpose
   
152.144   General provisions
   
152.145   Establishment of floodplain districts
   
152.146   Requirements for all floodplain districts
   
152.147   Floodway District (FW)
   
152.148   Flood Fringe District (FF)
   
152.149   General Floodplain District (GF)
   
152.150   Subdivision standards
   
152.151   Utilities, railroads, roads, and bridges
   
152.152   Manufactured homes and recreational camping vehicles
   
152.153   Administration
   
152.154   Nonconformities
   
152.155   Violations and penalties
   
152.156   Amendments
Transition Area Overlay Zone
   
152.160   Purpose
   
152.161   Designation
   
152.162   General provisions
Residential Cluster District
   
152.175   Purposes of the district
   
152.176   General provisions
   
152.177   Agricultural area regulations
   
152.178   Residential area regulations
   
152.179   Lot, yard, access, and height regulations
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.190   Land Management Department; authority/responsibility
   
152.191   Certification of zoning compliance
Board of Adjustment
   
152.210   Creation
   
152.211   Membership
   
152.212   Organization
   
152.213   Authority power of variance and appeals
   
152.214   Appeals
   
152.215   Variances
   
152.216   Decision
   
152.217   Expiration/extension of variance
   
152.218   Rehearing
Planning Commission
   
152.230   Planning Commission established
   
152.231   Membership
   
152.232   Organization
   
152.233   Meetings
   
152.234   Authority and duties of Commission
Conditional and Interim Use Permits
   
152.245   Application
   
152.246   Hearing required
   
152.247   Consideration of adverse effects
   
152.248   Recommendations for conditions
   
152.249   Time of recommendation; transmittal to board
   
152.250   County Board action
   
152.251   Required findings
   
152.252   Conformity required, expiration extension, review, duration
Amendments
   
152.265   Amendment of zoning code
   
152.266   Initiation of amendment
   
152.267   Pre-application meeting
   
152.268   Application
   
152.269   Hearing required
   
152.270   Findings of fact
   
152.271   Transmittal to Board
   
152.272   County Board action
   
152.273   File with Commissioner of Natural Resources
   
152.274   Effect of denial
Public Hearings
   
152.285   Public hearings
   
152.286   Notice requirements
   
152.287   Property owner records
   
152.288   Failure to give notice
   
152.289   Applicant to appear
   
152.290   Additional information
   
152.291   Environmental concern
 
   
152.999   Penalty
 
   
Appendix:   Zoning map
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited, and referred to as the Carver County
Zoning Code except as referred to herein where it shall be known as “this
chapter.”
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.002 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the purpose of:
   (A)   Protecting the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general
welfare and to minimize the loss of life and property associated with flooding;
   (B)   Dividing the unincorporated portions of the county into zones and
districts;
   (C)   Restricting and regulating therein the location, construction,
reconstruction, alteration and use of structures and land;
   (D)   Promoting orderly development of the unincorporated areas of the
county;
   (E)   Providing for adequate light, air and convenience of access to
property by regulating the use of land and buildings and the bulk of structures
in relationship to surrounding properties;
   (F)   Guiding the future development and growth of the county in accordance
with the comprehensive plan;
   (G)   Preserving land for agricultural uses and protecting it from
conflicting land uses;
   (H)   Discouraging the pollution of air, lakes, streams and ponds and
encouraging the wise use and management of natural resources throughout the
county in order to preserve the integrity, stability, and beauty of the
community and the value of the land;
   (I)   Limiting congestion in public rights-of-way;
   (J)   Providing the compatibility of different land uses and the principal
use of land in the county;
   (K)   Providing for the administration of this chapter and defining the
powers and duties of the administering officers as provided hereinafter;
   (L)   Prescribing penalties for the violation of the provisions in this
chapter or any amendment thereto.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.003 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to M.S. § 394.21, M.S. § 473.865, and M.S.
Chapters 103B and 103F, as they may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.004 RULES OF LANGUAGE CONSTRUCTION.
   The language set forth in the text of this chapter shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction:
   (A)   The singular number includes the plural and the plural, the singular.
The present tense includes the past and future tenses and the future, the
present;
   (B)   The word “shall” is mandatory and the word “may” is permissive;
   (C)   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of
this chapter, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definition
thereof;
   (D)   All measured distances expressed in feet shall be to the nearest tenth
of a foot.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.005 APPLICATION AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the
public health, safety and welfare, and for carrying out the intent of the
comprehensive plan.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all land within the
county which is not within the boundaries of an incorporated city or within any
orderly annexation area where the city and township and county have a separate
agreement concerning zoning within the orderly annexation area, or where a
joint powers agreement or similar agreement provides for another zoning
authority.
   (C)   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of the chapter are
either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed
by any other law, ordinance, statute, resolution, or regulation of any kind,
the regulations which are more restrictive or which impose higher standards of
requirements shall prevail except that all uses legally established under the
provisions of Ordinance No. 97-2021 and amendments thereto may continue in the
manner established under this chapter. The provisions of this chapter shall not
apply until there is a change in use or an increase in the intensity of the
established use.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21; Am. Ord. 108-2024,
passed 11-19-24)
§ 152.006 ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAPS.
   (A)   Zoning districts. For the purpose of this chapter several zoning
districts shall be created within the area of Carver County and in effect
outside the corporate limits of incorporated areas. These districts shall carry
the title as follows:
      “A,” the Agriculture District
      “RSD,” the Rural Service Overlay Districts
      “S,” the Shoreland Overlay District
      “F,” the Floodplain Overlay District
      “R,” Residential Cluster District
      “T,” Transition Area Overlay District.
   (B)   Maps. The boundaries of the above districts are hereby established as
shown on the map entitled “Carver County Zoning Map” and all the flood
insurance rate maps identified in the index dated December 21, 2018. The maps
and all of the notations, references and other information shown thereon and
amendments thereto, shall have the same force and effect as fully set down
herein and are hereby made part of this chapter by reference and incorporated
herein as if set forth herein at length. The flood insurance study for the
county prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, dated December 21,
2018, is hereby attached to and made part of the official zoning map and this
chapter.
   (C)   Boundaries. District boundaries as indicated on the zoning map follow
property lines, the center line of streets and alleys projected, the center
line of water courses or the corporate limit lines, all as they exist upon the
effective date of this chapter or as hereafter amended. If the district
boundary lines do not follow any of the above described lines, the district
boundary lines are established by scaling the distances as drawn on the zoning
map. District boundary lines as shown on the Shoreland District Map are
nominal; final boundary determination shall be made based on air photos or
similar information or field measurements; in the case of floodplain areas
determination shall be made in accordance with the following rules for
interpretation of Floodplain District boundaries:
      (1)   Rules for interpretation of Floodplain District boundaries. The
boundaries of the Floodplain District shall be determined by scaling distances
on the Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM) dated December 21, 2018.
      (2)   Interpretation. Where interpretation is needed as to the exact
location of the boundaries of the district as shown on the above noted maps as,
for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions, the Board of Adjustment shall make the necessary
interpretation. This interpretation shall be based on ground elevations that
existed on the site at the time the county adopted its initial floodplain
ordinance or the date of the first National Flood Insurance Program Map showing
the area in the floodplain, if earlier, elevations on the applicable regional
(100 year) water surface profile and, where appropriate, other best available
technical information.
      (3)   Opportunity to contest. The person contesting the location of the
district boundaries shall be given a reasonable opportunity to present his or
her case to the Board of Adjustment and to submit technical evidence if he or
she so desires.
   (D)   Residential Cluster District. District boundaries may be shown on the
zoning map for information only. Actual boundaries will be as legally described
in Attachment A - Residential Cluster Zones, attached to Ordinance 47 and on
file in the office of the County Auditor.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 70-2010,
passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 88-2018, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-
20-21)
§ 152.007 ROAD CLASSIFICATIONS.
   Road classifications shall be as designated on the Future Functional Class
Map of the Carver County comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.008 AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHY.
   Several sections of the chapter reference the use of aerial photos as an
information source. If the need is for current information, the most current
Carver County geographic information systems (GIS) mapping shall be utilized.
If historical information is required the most appropriate set of GIS mapping
or photography done by a governmental unit shall be utilized.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.009 NON-CONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Any structure or use of a structure, or use of land lawfully existing
upon the effective date of this chapter may be continued at the size and in the
manner of operation existing upon the date, notwithstanding the certain classes
pursuant to M.S. § 394.36, except as hereinafter specified.
      (1)   Certain classes of property. This division applies to homestead and
non-homestead residential real estate and seasonal residential real estate
occupied for recreational purposes. Except as otherwise provided by law, a
nonconformity, including the lawful use or occupation of land or premises
existing at the time of the adoption of an official control under this chapter,
may be continued, including through repair, partial replacement, restoration,
maintenance, or improvement, but not including physical expansion, substantial
improvement, complete replacement, and intensification of use. If the
nonconformity or occupancy is discontinued for a period of more than one year,
or any nonconforming building or structure is destroyed by fire or other peril
to the extent of greater than 50% of its estimated market value, as indicated
in the records of the County Assessor at the time of damage, and no building
permit has been applied for within 180 days of when the property is damaged,
any subsequent use or occupancy of the land or premises must be a conforming
use or occupancy. If a nonconforming building or structure is destroyed by fire
or other peril to the extent of greater than 50% of its estimated market value,
as indicated in the records of the County Assessor at the time of the damage,
the Board may impose reasonable conditions upon a zoning or building permit in
order to mitigate any newly created impact on adjacent property or water body.
When a nonconforming structure in the Shoreland District with less than 50% of
the required setback from the water is destroyed by fire or other peril to
greater than 50% of its estimated market value, as indicated in the records of
the County Assessor at the time of damage, the structure setback may be
increased if practicable and reasonable conditions are placed upon a zoning or
building permit to mitigate created impacts on the adjacent property or water
body.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the placing of a structure in a
safe condition when the structure is declared unsafe by the Building Inspector,
providing the necessary repair shall not constitute more than 50% of fair
market value of the structure as shown in the records of the County Assessor.
   (C)   When any lawful non-conforming use of any structure or land in any
district has been changed to a conforming use, it shall not thereafter be
changed to a non-conforming use.
   (D)   A lawful non-conforming use of a structure or parcel of land may be
changed to a similar non-conforming use or to a more restrictive nonconforming
use.
   (E)   Whenever a lawful non-conforming structure shall have been damaged by
fire, flood, explosion, earthquake, war, riot, or act of God, it may be
reconstructed and used as before if it can be reconstructed within 12 months
after the calamity, unless the damage to the building or structure is 50% or
more of its fair market value of the entire nonconforming use, in which case
the whole thereof shall be demolished, and any construction thereafter shall be
for a use in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Whenever a lawful non-conforming use of a structure or land is
discontinued for a period of 12 months, any future use of the structure or land
shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   Any lawful non-conforming use of land not involving a structure and
any lawful nonconforming use involving a structure with an assessor’s true and
full valuation upon the effective date of this chapter of $1,000 or less, may
continue for a period of one year from the date of adoption of this chapter,
whereupon the non-conforming use shall cease unless brought into conformity.
   (H)   Any proposed structure which will under this chapter become non-
conforming, but for which a building permit has been lawfully granted not more
than six months prior to the effective date of this chapter, may be completed
in accordance with the approved plans provided construction is started within
six months of the effective date of this chapter and continues to completion
within two years of that date. The structure shall thereafter be a legally
existing non-conforming structure.
   (I)   Normal maintenance of a building or other structure containing or
related to a lawful non- conforming use is permitted, including necessary non-
structural repairs and incidental alterations which do not extend or intensify
the non-conforming use.
   (J)   Alterations may be made to a building containing lawful, nonconforming
residential units when they will improve the livability thereof, provided they
will not increase the number of dwelling units. The bulk of the building may be
increased if the Department rules that the increase in bulk will not intensify
the non-conformity.
   (K)   Non-conforming uses which would or could be conforming if they were
under the provisions of a conditional use permit, shall file for the permit.
Should the permit be denied, a non- conforming use certificate shall be issued
by the County Board defining the use, scale and operational limits in detail.
   (L)   A structure existing on the date of the adoption of this chapter that
intrudes upon a required setback may be expanded provided a variance is
approved, and the expansion does not decrease the distance between the
structure and the applicable lot line.
   (M)   A residential parcel of land with existing structures on the effective
date of this chapter because of its dimensions or because it does not have
sufficient road frontage is considered a legal lot. The lot may be expanded
provided a variance is approved, and the new lot meets all chapter criteria
except the minimum road frontage standard.
   (N)   Shoreland standards. For shoreland standards, see the Shoreland
Overlay District regulations in §§
152.108 through
152.135.
   (O)   Floodplain standards. For floodplain standards, see the Floodplain
Overlay District regulations in §§
152.143 through
152.156 of this chapter.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 88-2018,
passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21; Am. Ord. 108-2024, passed
11-19-24)
§ 152.010 DEFINITIONS.
   Any words not defined in this section shall have the meanings given them
in Merriam-Webster’s Collegiate Dictionary, Eleventh Edition or most recent
edition. The following words and terms, whenever they occur in this chapter are
defined as follows:
   ABUTTING. Making contact with or separated only by a public thoroughfare,
railroad, public utility right-of-way or navigable waters.
   ACCESSIBLE PARKING. A space reserved exclusively for an automobile
registered with a state with handicapped license plates or displaying an
official city or state-issued handicapped placard.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure of secondary or subordinate use to the
principal structure, located on the same parcel.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use subordinate to and serving the principal use on the
same parcel, which is compatible with and customarily incidental to the
principal use.
   ADAPTIVE REUSE. Rehabilitation or renovation of existing buildings or
structures for uses other than the current ones.
   ADDITION. A physical enlargement of an existing structure.
   ADJACENT PARCELS. Parcels of land that are touching at a minimum of a single
point or are separated only by a public road, railroad, trail or similar right-
of-way.
   ADMINISTRATIVE SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A permit that can be issued by the
Department.
   AGRICULTURAL AREA. Large contiguous land areas planned and zoned to maintain
agriculture as the primary land use.
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. Any structure located on a parcel of 20 acres or more
that is used exclusively for agricultural purposes and is not subject to State
Building Code.
   AGRICULTURAL PRESERVE PROGRAM (AG. PRESERVE). The program governed by M.S.
Chapter 473H, as amended from time to time, that is designed to value and tax
qualifying agricultural property in the metropolitan area, in a manner similar
to out-state Minnesota. In addition to a tax benefit, this program also places
some restrictive land use covenants on the subject property.
   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION LAND. Land that has been tilled and utilized for
growing of row crops, hay, forage, vegetables, fruits or similar purposes for
the majority of the past ten years. Land that is entered in a state or federal
program where there is reimbursement for maintaining the land out of production
shall be considered production land for the purposes of enforcing these
regulations.
   AGRICULTURE. The principal use of a parcel of land of 20 acres or more for
any one or combination of the following activities:
      (1)   The production and storage of fruits, vegetables, herbs,
floriculture, grains, seeds, trees, forage, cider, maple sap, honey or other
crops;
      (2)   The keeping, raising, feeding, breeding, or production of animals
whether on range, pasture, or feedlot (cattle, sheep, hogs, poultry, ostriches,
emus, alpaca, farmed elk, farmed deer, farmed buffalo and the like); or
      (3)   Dairying.
   AGRI-TOURISM.  Any agricultural, horticultural or agri-business activity
that allows organizations or members of the general public, for the purpose of
recreational entertainment, education or active involvement to view, enjoy, or
participate in rural activities of a farm or farm related operation. An
activity is an agri-tourism activity whether or not the individual pays to
participate in the activity.
   AIRPORT or HELIPORT. Any land, water, or structure which is used or intended
for use for the landing and takeoff of aircraft and any appurtenant land or
structure used or intended for use for port buildings or other port structures
or rights-of-way.
   ANIMAL AGRICULTURE. The keeping, raising, feeding, breeding, dairying or
production of livestock or animals whether on range, pasture, or feedlot.
   ANIMAL UNIT. Refer to the feedlot management regulations, Chapter 54 of this
code of ordinances. Animals such as dogs, cats or other animals customarily
kept as pets shall not be considered animal units for purposes of this chapter
provided they are being kept as pets.
   APPLICANT. The owners, their agent or person having legal control, ownership
and/or interest in land for which the provisions of this chapter are being
considered or reviewed.
   BACKYARD COMPOST SITE. A site used to compost food scraps, garden wastes,
weeds, lawn cuttings, leaves, and prunings from a single-family or household,
apartment building, or single commercial office, a member of which is the
owner, occupant, or lessee of the property.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation of the REGIONAL FLOOD. The term BASE
FLOOD ELEVATION is used in the flood insurance survey.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having more than
half of its floor below ground, regardless of the depth of excavation below
ground level.
   BERM. A natural or man-made earthen mound, hill or embankment typically
utilized for screening, drainage diversion or landscaping.
   BILLBOARD. See SIGN-ADVERTISING.
   BIOMASS. Organic materials used as energy production sources such as wood,
crops, and animal waste.
   BLUFF. A topographic feature such as a hill, cliff, or embankment having the
following characteristics:
      (1)   The slope rises at least 25 feet; and
      (2)   The grade of the slope from the toe of the bluff to the top of the
bluff averages 30% or greater, except that an area with an average slope of
less than 18% of a distance of at least 50 feet shall not be considered part of
the bluff.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a8d38408183f4b9976deef69493e99a252875466/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2480.png]
 
   BLUFF-ACTIVELY ERODING. A bluff with a visibly unstable slope including, but
not limited to, slopes that are substantially devoid of vegetation, evidence of
cracks, gullies or washouts in the soil, trees that are tipping or that have
curved trunks, or are determined to be actively eroding by the Soil and Water
Conservation District.
   BLUFF IMPACT ZONE. A bluff and land located within 20 feet from the top of a
bluff.
   BLUFF “TOE”. The toe is a point on the lower part of a 50-foot segment where
the average slope levels off to 18% or less.
   BLUFF “TOP”. The top of a bluff is a point on the upper part of a 50-foot
segment where the average slope levels off to 18% or less.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The Carver County Board of Adjustment established under
provisions of this chapter.
   BOATHOUSE. A facility as defined by M.S. §103G.245.
   BUFFER. A vegetative feature as defined by M.S. §103F.48.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
   BUILDING ELIGIBILITY. The eligibility to apply for and be issued a building
permit for a single- family home under the provisions of this chapter.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance above a reference datum measured to
the highest point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard
roof or to the average height of the highest gable of a pitched or hipped roof.
The reference datum shall be selected by either of the following, whichever
yields a greater height of building:
      (1)   The elevation of the highest adjoining sidewalk or ground surface
within a five-foot horizontal distance of the exterior wall of the building
when the sidewalk or ground surface is not more than ten feet above lowest
grade;
      (2)   An elevation ten feet higher than the lowest grade when the
sidewalk or ground surface described in division (1) above is more than ten
feet above lowest grade; or
      (3)   The height of a stepped or terraced building is the maximum height
of any segment of the building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a8d38408183f4b9976deef69493e99a252875466/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2036.png]
 
   BUILDING SITE. A parcel of land exclusive of easement and setback
requirements with the following characteristics:
      (1)   One acre in size with no dimension less than 30 feet;
      (2)   Slope of 18% or less;
      (3)   One foot above any known flood elevation or any nearby source of
flooding; and
      (4)   A minimum of 12 inches of original soil separation between the
periodically saturated soil or other limiting factor and the surface of the
soil. This separation shall be demonstrated by the submission of soil borings,
from a licensed SSTS designer identifying both a primary and alternate SSTS
site as required in
Chapter 52. The areas identified for on-site sewage treatment sites may be
included in the area utilized to obtain the one-acre minimum building site.
   BUSINESS. Any occupation, employment or enterprise wherein merchandise, or
associated equipment is exhibited, stored or sold, or where services are
offered for compensation.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS. Includes any of the following licensed under M.S. Chapter
342, and as amended from time to time: cannabis cultivator, cannabis delivery
service, cannabis event organizer, cannabis manufacturer, cannabis
microbusiness, cannabis mezzobusiness, cannabis retailer, cannabis testing
facility, cannabis transporter, cannabis wholesaler, medical cannabis
combination business, medical cannabis cultivator, medical cannabis processor,
and medical cannabis retailer.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATOR. A person, cooperative, or business licensed to conduct
activities as allowed by M.S. Chapter 342 and perform other actions approved by
the Office of Cannabis Management.
   CANNABIS DELIVERY SERVICE. A person, cooperative, or business licensed to
conduct activities as allowed by M.S. Chapter 342 and perform other actions
approved by the Office of Cannabis Management.
   CANNABIS EVENT. A public event organized by a cannabis event organizer.
   CANNABIS EVENT ORGANIZER. A person, cooperative or business licensed to
organize a temporary cannabis event and perform other actions approved by the
Office of Cannabis Management.
   CANNABIS LICENSE HOLDER. A person, cooperative, or business that holds an
approved license issued by the State of Minnesota's Office of Cannabis
Management.
   CANNABIS MANUFACTURER. A person, cooperative, or business licensed to
conduct activities as allowed by M.S. Chapter 342 and perform other actions
approved by the Office of Cannabis Management.
   CANNABIS MEDICAL COMBINATION BUSINESS. A person, cooperative, or business
licensed to conduct activities as allowed by M.S. Chapter 342 and perform other
actions approved by the Office of Cannabis Management.
   CANNABIS MEDICAL CULTIVATOR. A person, cooperative, or business licensed to
conduct  activities as allowed by M.S. Chapter 342 and perform other actions
approved by the Office of Cannabis Management.
   CANNABIS MEZZOBUSINESS. A person, cooperative, or business licensed to
conduct activities as allowed by M.S. Chapter 342 and perform other actions
approved by the Office of Cannabis Management.
   CANNABIS MICROBUSINESS. A person, cooperative, or business licensed to
conduct activities as allowed by M.S. Chapter 342 and perform other actions
approved by the Office of Cannabis Management.
   CANNABIS PROCESSOR, MEDICAL. A person, cooperative, or business licensed to
conduct activities as allowed by M.S. Chapter 342 and perform other actions
approved by the Office of Cannabis Management.
   CANNABIS RETAILER. A person, cooperative, or business licensed to conduct
activities as allowed by M.S. Chapter 342 and perform other actions approved by
the Office of Cannabis Management.
   CANNABIS RETAILER, MEDICAL. A person, cooperative, or business licensed to
conduct activities as allowed by M.S. Chapter 342 and perform other actions
approved by the Office of Cannabis Management.
   CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY. A person, cooperative, or business licensed to
conduct activities as allowed by M.S. Chapter 342 and perform other actions
approved by the Office of Cannabis Management.
   CANNABIS TRANSPORTER. A person, cooperative, or business licensed to conduct
activities as allowed by M.S. Chapter 342 and perform other actions approved by
the Office of Cannabis Management.
   CANNABIS WHOLESALER. A person, cooperative, or business licensed to conduct
activities as allowed by M.S. Chapter 342 and perform other actions approved by
the Office of Cannabis Management.
   CARPORT. An accessory structure typically for a vehicle having one or more
open sides.
   CARTWAY. A township road less than 66 feet in width, and declared and
accepted as a public cartway by resolution of the Town Board of Supervisors.
   CEMETERY. Land used for the burial of the dead and dedicated for cemetery
purposes including columbariums, mausoleums and services uses necessary to
operate.
   CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.  A certificate issued by the Department
stating the subject request complies with all requirements of this chapter.
This certificate is required for any structure subject to State Building Code,
any structure or use requiring an administrative permit, or for any structure
or use when requested by a landowner for their property.
   CHURCH. A building together with its accessory buildings and uses where
persons regularly assemble for a religious service and which buildings and uses
are maintained and controlled by an organized group for public worship.
   CLUB or LODGE. A non-profit association of persons who are bona fide members
paying annual dues, use of premises and/or buildings being restricted to
members and their guests.
   CO-LOCATION. Placement of two or more wireless telecommunications providers
on a single tower or other structure.
   COMMERCIAL KENNEL. A place where three or more dogs or cats over the age of
four months are kept for sale, breeding for sale, boarding for pay, or training
for pay on an ongoing basis.
   COMMERCIAL USE. The principal use of land or buildings for the sale, lease,
rental, or trade of products, goods, and services.The principal or accessory
use of land or buildings for the sale, lease, rental, or trade of products,
goods, and services.
   COMMISSION. The Carver County Planning Commission.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The document entitled Carver County/Townships
Comprehensive Plan adopted pursuant to M.S. § 473.864 and M.S. § 394.21 and all
amendments thereto.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A land use or development as defined by ordinance that
would not be appropriate generally but may be allowed with appropriate
restrictions as provided by official controls upon a finding that (1) certain
conditions as detailed in the zoning code exists, and (2) the use or
development conforms to the comprehensive land use plan of the county, and (3)
is compatible with the existing neighborhood.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT (CUP). A permit specifically and individually ordered
by the County Board after recommendation thereon pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter.
   CONTIGUOUS. Parcels of land that have a common lot line or boundary. Parcels
that only touch at a single point or are separated by a public road, railroad,
trail or similar right-of-way shall not be considered CONTIGUOUS.
   CONTRACTOR. A person whose business is contracting work in any of the
building or construction trades including directly related fabrication,
landscaping, road building, general construction, SSTS installation, or who has
two or more trucks used for hauling or transport or to supply a property
maintenance service.
   CONTRACTOR’S YARD. A site used for the storage and maintenance of vehicles,
equipment or supplies used by a contractor in the operation of the business.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS LOT. A lot used to access public waters or as a recreation
area for owners of nonriparian lots within the same subdivision containing the
controlled access lot.
   COUNTY BOARD. The Carver County Board of Commissioners or Board.
   CRITICAL FACILITIES. Facilities necessary to a community’s public health and
safety; those that store or produce highly volatile, toxic, or water-reactive
materials; and those that house occupants that may be insufficiently mobile to
avoid loss of life or injury. Examples of CRITICAL FACILITIES include
hospitals, correctional facilities, schools, daycare facilities, nursing homes,
fire and police stations, wastewater treatment facilities, public electric
utilities, water plants, fuel storage facilities, and waste handling and
storage facilities.
   DAY CARE FACILITY. Any facility, public or private, which for gain or
otherwise regularly provides one or more persons with care, training,
supervision, habilitation, rehabilitation, or developmental guidance on a
regular basis, for periods of less than 24 hours per day, in a place other than
the person’s own home. DAY CARE FACILITIES include, but are not limited to:
family day care homes, group family day care homes, day care centers, day
nurseries, nursery school, daytime activity centers, day treatment programs,
and day services.
   DECK. A horizontal, unenclosed platform with or without attached railings,
seats, trellises, or other features, attached or functionally related to a
principal use or site.
   DEMOLITION DEBRIS. Refer to the solid waste management regulations,
Chapter 50 of this code of ordinances.
   DEMOLITION LAND DISPOSAL FACILITY. An area of land used for the disposal of
demolition debris.
   DEPARTMENT. The Land Management Department, formerly known as Planning and
Zoning.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or
materials.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building or single unit providing complete independent
living facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for
living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation, occupied or intended to be
occupied for residential purposes by a single family, but not including motels,
hotels, nursing homes, boarding houses, trailers, tents or cabins. All
dwellings, including manufactured homes, shall have a minimum of at least 480
square feet and a minimum width of 20 feet.
   EARTH SHELTERED STRUCTURE. A structure designed and constructed so that more
than 50% of the exterior surface area of the building, excluding roofs, garages
or other accessory buildings, is covered with earth and the building code
standards are complied with. Partially completed buildings shall not be
considered “earth-sheltered.”
   EASEMENT. The right to use the land of another owner for a specified use. An
EASEMENT may be granted for the purpose of constructing and maintaining
walkways, roadways, subsurface sewage treatment systems, utilities, drainage,
driveway, and other uses.
   EASEMENT - CONSERVATION. A legal agreement creating an interest in real
property created in a manner to impose limitations or affirmative obligations
regarding the use of property including the retention, protection, and
maintenance of open space.
   ENERGY PRODUCTION. A site or facility where the primary function is focused
on obtaining sources of energy from natural resources.
   EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location of
floodplain boundaries so that the floodplain lands on both sides of the stream
are capable of conveying a proportionate share of the flood flows.
   EQUESTRIAN FACILITY. Building and or structures being utilized for or by
riding academies, stables, personal riding arenas and or similar uses.
   EQUESTRIAN FACILITY - PERSONAL. A structure utilized by a private individual
or family for the purpose of riding, training or exercising equine.
   EQUESTRIAN FACILITY - PUBLIC/COMMERCIAL. A combination of land and
structures used for boarding or keeping for pay three or more horses and/or for
the purpose of giving instructions in riding and horsemanship for pay, training
of horses other than the owner’s and the breeding of racing and show stock.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICE. Public, quasi-public, limited private uses, and uses that
serve a community purpose such as utilities, transportation, government
operations, communication, energy production, water management, waste treatment
or disposal, public parks and similar uses that serve a public need, or are
deemed beneficial or essential to the public health and safety, welfare, or
serving a public good of the community as determined by the County Board.
   FAMILY. An individual or two or more persons each related by blood,
marriage, or adoption living together as a single housekeeping unit or a group
of not more than four persons not so related, maintaining a common household
and using common cooking and kitchen facilities.
   FARM.  A parcel of land which is 20 acres or more in size, utilized as a
single economic unit for the purpose of conducting agriculture as the principal
use of the land.
   FARM FENCE. A fence as defined by M.S. § 344.02, subds. 1(a) through (d). An
open type fence of posts and wire is not considered to be a structure under
this chapter. Fences that have the potential to obstruct flood flow, such as
chain link fences and rigid walls, are regulated as structures under this
chapter.
   FEEDLOT. Refer to the feedlot management regulations,
Chapter 54 of this code of ordinances.
   FEEDLOT, (EXISTING) ANIMAL. An animal feedlot that has registered, pursuant
to Minn. Rule 7020.0350 and/or has registered with Carver County Environmental
Services prior to July 7, 2003.
   FEEDLOT, (NEW) ANIMAL. An animal feedlot constructed and operated at a site
where no animal feedlot existed previously or where a pre-existing animal
feedlot has been abandoned or unused for a period of three years or more.
   FENCE. An artificially constructed barrier of wood, masonry, stone, wire,
metal, or other manufactured material or combination of materials erected to
enclose, screen, or separate areas.
   FENCING, COMMERCIAL GRADE. Fencing that is at least six feet high and
obscures, or has a cover that obscures, the fenced area from being readily
viewed from outside of the fenced area. Such fencing must be security grade,
not agricultural or residential grade, and designed to prevent access to the
enclosed area by unauthorized persons.
   FIELD ACCESS DRIVE. An access to a public road used exclusively for the
movement of farm vehicles and equipment onto a field for the purposes of
tiling, planting, cultivation, harvesting, or the application of pesticide,
herbicide, fertilizer, or similar activity.
   FLOOD. A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream or in the stage
of a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry areas.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY. The average frequency statistically determined for which it
is expected that a specific flood stage or discharge may be equaled or
exceeded.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the special flood hazard area (1% annual
chance flood) located outside of the floodway. FLOOD FRINGE is synonymous with
the term FLOODWAY FRINGE used in the Flood Insurance Study for Carver County,
Minnesota.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administrator has delineated both the special hazard areas and the
risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been made
available digitally is called a digital flood insurance rate map (DFIRM).
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN. The beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional flood.
   FLOOD PROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes, or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding, primarily for the
reduction or elimination of flooding damages.
   FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
   FLOOR AREA – GROSS. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of a building including interior balconies, mezzanines, basements and
attached accessory buildings except that area primarily devoted to window
display, fitting rooms, stairs, escalators, unenclosed porches, detached
accessory buildings utilized as dead storage, heating and utility rooms, inside
off-street parking or loading space.
   FLOOR AREA – PARKING. For the purpose of calculating the number of off-
street parking spaces required shall be determined on the basis of the exterior
floor area dimension of the buildings, structure or use times the number of
floors minus 10%, except as required in §
152.038 of this chapter.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO. The numerical value obtained through dividing the floor
area of a building or buildings by the lot area on which the building or
buildings are located.
   GARAGE. A detached or attached accessory building or carport which is used
primarily for non-commercial vehicles and personal equipment.
   GARAGE SALE. Any display of used goods and/or salesman samples and sale of
the goods on a property customarily used as a residence, the persons conducting
the sale being residents of the property.
   GEOTHERMAL HEAT PUMP SYSTEM. A system that uses the relatively constant
temperature of the earth or a body of water to provide heating in the winter
and cooling in the summer. System components include open or closed loops of
pipe, coils or plates; a fluid that absorbs and transfers heat; and a heat pump
unit that processes heat for use or disperses heat for cooling; and an air
distribution system.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation or profession that is carried on in a
dwelling unit by a member of the family that is a resident thereof, provided
that the use is limited in extent and incidental and secondary to the use of
the dwelling unit for residential purposes and does not change the character
thereof.
   HOMESTEAD. To own and occupy a single-family residence on a property as
defined by the Carver County Assessor's Office, or with property owned by a
limited liability company (LLC) registered with the Minnesota Secretary of
State's Office, the homestead requirement may be satisfied by a principal of
the activity providing proof they are an owner of property, reside at and
utilize the single-family residence as their primary domicile, and provide
proof of residency.
   HORSE STABLES AND RIDING ACADEMIES. See EQUESTRIAN FACILITY.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A constructed hard surface that prevents or retards
entry of water into the soil and causes water to run off the surface in greater
quantities and at an increased rate of flow than prior to development,
including rooftops; decks; sidewalks; patios; swimming pools; parking lots;
concrete, asphalt, gravel driveways, or permeable pavers; and other similar
surfaces.
   INSTITUTIONAL USE. A use that is primarily religious, governmental,
educational, social or healthcare facilities.
   INTENSIVE VEGETATION CLEARING. The complete removal of trees or shrubs in a
contiguous patch, strip, row, or block.
   INTERIM USE PERMIT (IUP). An interim use is a temporary use of property
until a particular date, until the occurrence of a particular event, or until
zoning regulations no longer permit it.
   LAND RECLAMATION. Depositing 400 cubic yards or more of material to elevate
the grade or substantially change the topography.
   LANDSCAPING. Planting of trees, grass, ground cover, shrubs, and screening,
including the use of rock and timbers.
   LIGHT MANUFACTURING. The processing or fabrication of certain materials or
products where no process involved will produce noise, vibration, air
pollution, fire hazard, or noxious emission which would disturb or endanger
neighboring properties. This does not include bulk storage of materials that
are flammable or explosive or that present hazards or conditions commonly
recognized as offensive.
   LIVESTOCK. Any animals, including but not limited to cattle, swine, sheep,
poultry, fowl, or other animals except dogs, cats and birds owned by the
resident of a premises and kept as pets.
   LOADING BERTH. An unobstructed area provided and maintained for the
temporary parking of trucks and other motor vehicles for the purpose of loading
and unloading goods, wares, materials, and merchandise.
   LONG TERM AGRICULTURAL LAND (LTA). USDA Soil Conservation Service
Agricultural Capability Class 1, 2, and 3 land that is utilized as PRODUCTION
LAND as defined by this chapter.
   LOT. A parcel of land designated by metes and bounds, registered land
survey, or other accepted means and separated from other parcels or portions by
said description for the purpose of sale, lease, or separation thereof. In all
cases, a road shall be considered a property line.
   LOT AREA.  The area of a lot in a horizontal plane bounded by the lot lines,
but not including any area occupied by the waters of a duly recorded lake or
river or area which has been dedicated as public thoroughfare or road.
   LOT–CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two streets. A corner lot
shall have two side lot lines opposite the front lot lines.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
rear lot line of the lot measured in the general direction of the side lot
lines.
   LOT LINE. A property line bounding a lot except that where any portion of a
lot extends into or abuts the public right-of-way or a proposed public right-
of-way, the nearest line of the public right-of-way shall be the LOT LINE for
applying this chapter.
   LOT LINE–FRONT. Generally the road right-of-way line.
   LOT LINE–REAR. That boundary of a lot which is opposite the front lot line.
If the REAR LOT LINE is less than ten feet in length or if the lot forms a
point at the rear, the REAR LOT LINE shall be a line ten feet in length within
the lot connecting the side lot lines and parallel to the front lot line.
   LOT LINE–SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a rear
lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. Part of a subdivision, the plat of which has been recorded in
the office in the Registrar of Deeds or Registrar of Titles; or a parcel of
land for which the deed or agreement to convey was recorded in the office of
the Registrar of Deeds or Registrar of Titles prior to July 1, 1974.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot
measured at the location of the front yard setback and at the ordinary high
water level.
   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE MANUFACTURER. A person, cooperative, or business
licensed to conduct activities as allowed by M.S. Chapter 342 and perform other
actions approved by the Office of Cannabis Management.
   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE RETAILER. A person, cooperative, or business
licensed to conduct activities as allowed by M.S. Chapter 342 and perform other
actions approved by the Office of Cannabis Management.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The LOWEST FLOOR of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
in the traveling mode is 8 body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more
in length, or, when erected on-site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and
includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems
contained therein; except that the term includes any structure which meets all
the requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the Secretary of the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development and complies with the standards established under
M.S. §§ 327.31 to 327.35, the Manufactured Home Building Code, as it may be
amended from time to time. The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include the term
RECREATIONAL CAMPING VEHICLE.
   METES AND BOUNDS. A method of property description by means of their
direction and distance from an identifiable point of beginning.
   MINING. The extraction of sand, gravel or other materials from the land in
the amount of 10,000 cubic yards or more. The removal of material incidental to
construction for a permitted or conditional use, or for highway or drainage
purposes shall not be considered MINING.
   MINNESOTA STATE BUILDING CODE. The State Building Code, established under
M.S. Chapter 326B, governing the construction, reconstruction, alteration,
repair, and use of buildings and other structures to which the code is
applicable and administered by
Chapter 150 of this code.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures, including additions and improvements, and
placement of manufactured homes, for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of this chapter.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. Any lot existing upon the effective date of this chapter
which fails to meet the current required lots size, width, or does not have the
required frontage on a publicly maintained road.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. Any structure existing upon the effective date of
this chapter which would not conform to the applicable regulations if the
structure were to be erected under provisions of this chapter.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Use of the land, buildings or structures existing at the
time of adoption of this chapter which does not comply with all the regulations
of this chapter or any amendments hereto governing the zoning district in which
the use is located.
   NONCONFORMITY. Any legal use, structure or parcel of land already in
existence, recorded or authorized before the adoption of official controls or
amendments thereto that would not have been permitted to become established
under the terms of the official controls as now written, if the official
controls had been in effect prior to the date it was established, recorded or
authorized.
   NOXIOUS MATTER/MATERIALS. Material capable of causing injury to living
organisms by chemical reaction or which is capable of causing detrimental
effects to the physical or economic wellbeing of individuals or animals.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel rectification, culvert, building, wire, fence,
stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, or matter in, along, across or projecting
into any channel, watercourse or regulatory flood hazard area which may impede,
retard or change the direction of flow of water either in itself or by catching
or collecting debris carried by water, or that is placed where the flow of
water might carry it downstream to the damage of life or property.
   OFFICIAL CONTROL. Legislatively defined and enacted policies, standards,
precise detailed maps and other criteria, all of which control the physical
development of a municipality or a county or any part thereof or any detail
thereof and are the means of translating into ordinances, all or any part of
the general objectives of the comprehensive plan. The OFFICIAL CONTROLS may
include but are not limited to ordinances establishing zoning, subdivision
controls, site planned regulations, sanitary codes, building codes, housing
codes and official maps.
   OFFICIAL MAP. A map adopted in accordance with the provisions of M.S. §
394.361, as it may be amended from time to time, which may show existing county
roads and county state aid highways, proposed future county roads and highways
and the areas needed for widening existing county roads and highways. Any
OFFICIAL MAP may also show the location of existing public land and facilities
and other land needed for future public purposes including public facilities
such as parks, playgrounds, schools, and other public buildings, civic centers,
traveling services facilities.
   ONE PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOODPLAIN. Lands inundated by the regional flood.
   OPERATIONAL AREA.  An area of land specifically defined within a permit
within which the operations shall be confined.
   ORDINANCE. A law or statute. The term used to designate the enactment of the
legislative body of a municipal corporation or a county.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL. The boundary of public waters and wetlands which
shall be an elevation delineating the highest water level which has been
maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape, commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from
predominantly aquatic to predominately terrestrial. For watercourses, the
ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is the elevation of the top of the bank of the
channel. For reservoirs and flowages, the ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is the
operating elevation of the normal summer pool.
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A zoning district, the regulations of which are applied in
addition to or in modification of the regulations of the underlying zone.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, associate, partnership, corporation, trust or
any other legal entity having proprietary interest in the land.
   PARCEL. A distinct, legally described piece of land under the ownership of
one or more persons.
   PARKING AREA. An open area, excluding a public roadway, used for the parking
of automobiles.
   PARKING–OFF-STREET. Space occupied by motor vehicles on premises other than
public or private roads.
   PARKING SPACE. A surfaced and permanently maintained area on privately- or
publicly-owned property either within or outside of a building of sufficient
size to store one standard vehicle.
   PARTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Within any consecutive 365-day period, any
reconstruction, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance and repair),
repair after damage, addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of
which is less than 50% of the market value of the structure before the start of
construction of the improvement.
   PASTURE. Refer to the feedlot management regulations, Chapter 54 of this
code of ordinances.
   PERSON. One or more natural persons; a limited liability company, whether
domestic or foreign; a registered limited liability partnership, whether
domestic or foreign; a partnership; a limited partnership; a corporation,
including a foreign, domestic, or nonprofit corporation; a trust; or any other
business organization.
   PHOTOVOLTAIC ARRAY. A group of solar photovoltaic modules connected together
to increase voltage and/or power to the level required for a given system.
   PHOTOVOLTAIC DEVICE. A system of components that generates electricity from
incident sunlight by means of the photovoltaic effect, whether or not the
device is able to store the energy produced for later use.
   PLANNING COMMISSION.  The Carver County Planning Commission established by
this chapter.
   PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY. When used in connection with the granting of a
variance, means that the property owner proposes to use the property in a
reasonable manner not permitted by an official control; the plight of the
landowner is due to circumstances unique to the property not created by the
landowner; and the variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality. Economic considerations alone do not constitute practical
difficulties. PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES include, but are not limited to,
inadequate access to direct sunlight for solar energy systems.
   PRIME (AGRICULTURAL) LAND. All SCS Capability Class 1 and 2 land plus
Glencoe Loam (GL), Canisteo Silty Clay Loam (CS), and Talcot Silty Clay Loam
(TT) Soils.
   PRINCIPAL RESIDENCE. The primary or most important house located on a lot,
regardless of whether the residential use is a principal or subordinate use.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. A structure or set of structures utilized as a unit and
used as an integral part of the principal use of the land.
   PRINCIPAL USE.  The primary use of land or structures or a combination of
land and structures as opposed to a subordinate or accessory use. A PRINCIPAL
USE may be either conditional or permitted.
   PRODUCTION LAND. Land that has been tilled and utilized for growing of row
crops, hay, forage, vegetables, fruits or similar purposes for eight of the
past ten years. Land that is entered in a state or federal program shall be
considered PRODUCTION LAND until the contract expires for the purposes of
enforcing these regulations.
   PROPERTY LINE.  The legal boundaries of a parcel of land.
   PROTECTED WATERS AND WATERWAYS. Water bodies or watercourses identified on
the Public Waters Wetlands Inventory Map published by the Department of Natural
Resources, State of Minnesota or watercourses determined by the county to have
a watershed of two square miles or more.
   PUBLICATION. Notice placed in the official county newspaper stating time,
location and date of meeting and description of topic.
   PUBLIC HEARING. Whenever the term PUBLIC HEARING is used in this chapter,
unless otherwise specifically redefined, it shall mean a public hearing
pursuant to a notice published once in the official newspaper of the county at
least ten days before the date of the hearing, which notice shall specify the
general purpose, time and place of the hearing. Any hearing after the
publication, may be continued, recessed or adjourned from time to time without
any further publication or notice thereof.
   PUBLIC ROAD, STREET, HIGHWAY. A strip of land including bridges and other
structures used for vehicular traffic and which is owned in fee simple or the
public use of which is guaranteed through easement by a governmental unit and
is maintained by a unit of government utilizing public funds.
   PUBLIC WATERS. Any PUBLIC WATERS as defined in M.S. §103G.005, subds. 15,
15a.
   QUARTER-QUARTER (¼¼) SECTION. A quarter of a quarter section as determined
by the United States Rectangular Land Survey System. A government lot as
determined by the rectangular land survey system shall be considered a QUARTER-
QUARTER SECTION for purposes of this chapter. For purposes of this chapter,
rights-of-way for public or private transportation, public trails, or a public
use shall not impact the completeness of a quarter-quarter section.
   REACH. The hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of
a stream or river influenced by natural or manmade obstruction. In an urban
area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive crossings would
most likely constitute a REACH.
   REASONABLE USE. For purposes of this chapter, REASONABLE USE shall be a lot
or parcel of land with at least one of the following characteristics: at least
20 acres that is primarily good farmland suitable for agriculture; a single-
family dwelling exists or there is at least one building eligibility
available; or a conditional use permit has been issued for the property as
provided by this chapter. Vacant or “no” use shall not be considered a
reasonable use.
   RECREATION. The refreshment of body and mind through forms of play,
amusement, or relaxation. The recreational experience may be active or passive.
   RECREATION - ACTIVE. Leisure activities usually performed with others, often
requiring equipment and taking place at prescribed places, sites, or fields.
The term ACTIVE RECREATION includes but is not limited to swimming, tennis, and
other court games, baseball and other field sports, golf and playground
activities.
   RECREATION - PASSIVE. Outdoor leisure activities that have a low potential
for nuisance to adjacent property owners and require little to no development
or alteration to the land. The term PASSIVE RECREATION includes but is not
limited to hiking, picnicking, parks, walking, jogging, running, and bicycle
paths/trails.
   RECREATIONAL CAMPING VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   TRAVEL TRAILER means a vehicular, portable structure built on a
chassis designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational,
and vacation uses, permanently identified travel trailer by the manufacturer of
the trailer.
      (2)   PICK-UP COACH means a structure designed to be mounted on a truck
chassis for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation, and vacation.
      (3)   MOTOR-HOME means a portable, temporary dwelling to be used for
travel, recreation, and vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self-
propelled vehicle.
      (4)   CAMPING TRAILER means a folding structure, mounted on wheels and
designed for travel, recreation, and vacation use.
   REDUCTION/RECYCLING FACILITY. A lot or a designated part of a lot
principally used for the reduction, recycling, or preparation for recycling of
vehicles, equipment, and/or used, waste, or salvaged materials. Reduction and
recycling shall include dismantling, wrecking, crushing, repairing, rebuilding,
sale of parts of scrap, storage, abandonment, or accumulation for sale or
shipment.
   REFUSE. Refer to the solid waste regulations,
Chapter 50 of this code of ordinances, for definition.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in a magnitude of the 1% annual
chance flood. REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the term BASE FLOOD as used in
the Flood Insurance Study.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (RFPE). An elevation not less than one
foot above the elevation of the regional flood plus any increases in flood
elevation caused by encroachments on a floodplain that results from the
designation of a floodway. It is this elevation which is regulated by this
chapter and required to be elevated or flood proofed.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   RESIDENCE - PRIMARY. A separate, complete dwelling unit that is the larger
of the dwelling units when a single-family residential site contains an
approved secondary residence.
   RESIDENCE - SECONDARY. A residential dwelling unit located on the same lot
as a single-family dwelling unit, either as a mobile home or in a detached
accessory structure. Prohibited by this chapter unless otherwise allowed by an
interim use permit.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. Any facility, public or private, which for gain or
otherwise regularly provides one or more persons with a 24-hour per day
substitute for care, food, lodging, training, education, supervision,
habilitation, rehabilitation, and treatment they need, but which for any reason
cannot be furnished in the person’s own home. Residential facilities include,
but are not limited to: state institutions under the control of the
Commissioner of Public Welfare, foster homes, residential treatment centers,
maternity shelters, group homes, residential programs, or schools for
handicapped children.
   RESIDENTIAL LOT. A parcel that is less than 20 acres in size, which has an
available building eligibility or an existing single-family residence.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY (R-O-W). A strip of land acquired by reservation, dedication,
prescription, or condemnation and intended to be occupied or used by a road,
street, trail, water line, sewer line, electrical transmission line or similar
public and/or utility service. Unless otherwise specified, the term RIGHT-OF-
WAY (R-O-W) as used in this chapter refers to road or street right-of-way.
   ROTOR DIAMETER. The diameter of the circle described by the moving rotor
blades.
   SEMI-PUBLIC USE. The use of land by a private, nonprofit organization to
provide a public service that is ordinarily open to some persons outside the
regular constituency of the organization.
   SENSITIVE AREAS. Areas within 150 feet of DNR protected waters; areas within
150 feet of watercourses as defined; a designated floodplain; bluffs and areas
within 100 feet of the bluff top; Wellhead Protection Areas as adopted by LGU;
areas within 100 feet of a delineated wetland boundary or wetlands as shown on
the National Wetland Inventory (NWI); areas within 100 feet of protected
properties such as DNR wildlife areas, USFW property, and parkland.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure, sewage
treatment system, or other facility, and an ordinary high water level, sewage
treatment system, top of bluff, road, highway, property line, or other
facility. A required open space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed
by a building from its lowest ground level to the sky except as expressly
permitted in this chapter. A SETBACK shall extend along a lot line and at right
angles to a lot line to a depth or width specified in the yard regulations for
the district in which the lot is located.
   SETBACK–FRONT. A setback extending along the full width of the front lot
line between side lot lines and extending from the centerline of the street
right-of-way line to a depth as required in the setback regulations for the
district in which the lot is located.
   SETBACK–REAR. A setback extending along the full width of the rear lot line
between the side lot lines and extending toward the front lot line for a depth
as specified in the setback regulations for the district in which the lot is
located.
   SETBACK–SIDE. A setback extending along the side lot line between the front
and rear yards, having a width as specified in the yard regulations for the
district in which the lot is located.
   SHORE IMPACT ZONE. Land located between the ordinary high water level of a
public water and a line parallel to it at a setback of 50% of the structure
setback.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a8d38408183f4b9976deef69493e99a252875466/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2038.png]
 
   SHORELAND.
      (1)   Land located within the following distance from public waters:
         (a)   1,000 feet from the ordinary high water level of a lake, pond or
flowage; and
         (b)   300 feet from river or stream as designated on the Carver County
Zoning Map or the landward extent of a floodplain as designated by this chapter
of a river or stream, whichever is greater.
      (2)   The practical limits of SHORELAND may be less than statutory limits
wherever the waters involved are bounded by natural topographic divides which
extend landward from the waters for lesser distances and when approved by the
Commissioner of Natural Resources.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a8d38408183f4b9976deef69493e99a252875466/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2040.png]
 
   SIGN. Any device (including but not limited to letters, words, numerals,
figures, logos, pictures, or any part or combination) used for visual
communication intended to attract the attention of the public. The term SIGN
shall not include any flag, symbol, or any governmental unit.
   SIGN – ADVERTISING (BILLBOARD). A sign which directs attention to a
business, commodity, service or entertainment not exclusively related to the
premises where the sign is located or to which it is affixed.
   SIGN – BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
conducted or to a commodity, service, or entertainment sold or offered on the
premises on which the sign is located or to which it is affixed.
   SIGN – FLASHING.  A sign where light is not maintained stationery or
constant in intensity and color at all times in which the sign is in use.
   SIGN – IDENTIFICATION OR NAMEPLATE. Any sign which states the name or
address or both of the business or occupant of the lot or building where the
sign is placed or may be a directory listing the name, address and business of
occupants.
   SIGN ILLUMINATED. Any sign which is illuminated in any way including
reflection.
   SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC SITE. Any archaeological site, standing structure or
other property that meets the criteria for eligibility to the National Register
of Historic Places or is listed in the State Register of Historic Sites, or is
determined to be an unplatted cemetery that falls under the provisions of M.S.
§ 307.08. A historic site meets these criteria if it is presently listed on
either register or if it is determined to meet the qualifications for listing
after review by the Minnesota State Archaeologist or the Director of the
Minnesota Historical Society. All unplatted cemeteries are automatically
considered to be SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC SITES.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE. A dwelling unit with a minimum width of 20 feet,
attached to a permanent foundation built to frost depth, having an earth
covered, composition, shingled or tiled roof, constructed in accordance with
the Minnesota State Building Code, designed for occupation by one family and
being one contiguous living space with one set of utilities.
   SOLAR ARRAY. Any number of solar photovoltaic modules or panels connected
together to provide a single electrical output.
   SOLAR CELL. The basic unit of a photovoltaic solar panel.
   SOLAR ENERGY BATTERY STORAGE. An accessory use to a solar energy system
which captures solar energy produced at one time for use at a later time.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES).  A set of devices whose primary purpose is to
collect solar energy and convert it for useful purposes including heating and
cooling buildings or other energy-using processes, or to produce generated
power by means of any combination of collecting, transferring, or converting
solar-generated energy. (See also: LARGE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM and SMALL SOLAR
ENERGY SYSTEM).
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, LARGE. Composed of multiple solar panels on multiple
mounting systems (poles or racks), and generally have a direct current (DC)
rated capacity greater than 100 kilowatts.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, SMALL. A solar array that is an accessory use with a
direct current (DC) rated capacity less than 100 kilowatts.
   SOLAR MODULE. Any number of individual solar cells connected together in an
environmentally protected housing producing a standard output voltage and
power. Multiple modules/panels can be assembled into an array for increased
power and/or voltage.
   SOLID WASTE. Refer to the solid waste regulations, Chapter 50 of this code
of ordinances, for definition.
   SOLID WASTE FACILITY. All property real or personal, including negative and
positive easements and water and air rights, which is or may be needed or
useful for the processing or disposal of waste. It includes but is not limited
to the storage, collection, transportation, processing and reuse, conversion or
disposal of solid waste in a safe, environmentally sound manner.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. A term used for flood insurance purposes and
synonymous with that portion of the floodplain subject to inundation by the
base flood (1% annual chance) and/or flood-related erosion hazards.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement that occurred before the permit’s expiration
date. The actual start is either the first placement of permanent construction
of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STEEP SLOPE. Lands having average slopes over 12%, as measured over
horizontal distances of 50 feet or more, which are not bluffs.
   STOCK-IN TRADE. A stock of goods kept on hand for sale on the premises.
   STREET. See PUBLIC ROAD.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on or connected to the ground.
   SUBDIVISION. The creation of one or more lots under the provisions of
Chapter 151.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure where the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal or
exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Within any consecutive 365-day period, any
reconstruction, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance and repair),
repair after damage, addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds 50%of the market value of the structure before the
start of construction of the improvement. This term includes structures that
have incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The term does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure. For the purpose of this chapter, historic structure is as
defined in 44 C.F.R. § 59.1.
   SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM (SSTS). Either an individual sewage
treatment system or a midsized subsurface sewage treatment system pursuant to
Chapter 52 and Minn. Rules Chapters 7080, 7081, 7082, and 7083; or successor
rules as they are amended from time to time.
   SURFACE WATER-ORIENTED COMMERCIAL USE. The use of land for commercial
purposes, where access to and use of a surface water feature is an integral
part of the normal conductance of business. Resorts and restaurants with
transient docking facilities are examples of the use.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. A structure specifically designed to be moved at will
and in no way permanently attached to the ground through foundations, tie downs
or similar attachments.
   TOWER. A structure as defined in the Uniform Building Code.
   TRANSFER FACILITY/TRANSFER STATION. Refer to the solid waste regulations,
Chapter 50 of this code of ordinances, for definition.
   TRANSMISSION SYSTEMS. Systems designed to move information, electrical power
or a commodity such as petroleum or natural gas from place to place. Systems
may consist of overhead lines or cables with poles or towers, underground
cables, pipelines, pipes or similar installations. En-route consumption systems
are designed primarily to provide service to local areas and provide service to
individual users. Non-en-route consumption systems are designed primarily to
transport information, power or a commodity over long distances and typically
do not provide service to individual users along the way.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designated, arranged, or intended or for which is occupied, utilized or
maintained and shall include the performance of an activity as defined by the
performance standards of this chapter.
   USE–ACCESSORY. See ACCESSORY USE.
   USE–PERMITTED.  A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations
and performance standards, if any, of the districts.
   VARIANCE. Any modification or variation of official controls, as defined in
M.S. § 394.27, subd. 7, where it is determined that by reason of exceptional
circumstances, the strict enforcement of the official controls would cause a
practical difficulty.
   WATER-ORIENTED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR FACILITY. A small, above-ground
building or other improvement, except stairways, fences, docks and retaining
walls, which, because of the relationship of its use to a surface water
feature, reasonably needs to be located closer to public waters than the normal
structure setback. Examples of these structures and facilities include
boathouses, gazebos, screen houses, fish houses, pumphouses, saunas, patios,
and detached decks. Boathouses and boat storage structures given the meaning
under M.S. § 103G.245 are not WATER-ORIENTED ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   WATER SUPPLY PURPOSE. Any use of water for domestic, commercial or
agricultural purposes.
   WETLAND.  As defined by Minnesota Wetland Conservation Rules, Minn. Rules
Part 8420.0111, as it may be amended from time to time.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS). A device such as wind charger,
windmill, or wind turbine and associated facilities that converts wind energy
to electric energy, including, but not limited to: power lines, transformers,
substations, and meteorological towers. The energy may be used on-site or
distributed into the electrical grid. (See also: LARGE WIND ENERGY CONVERSION
SYSTEM and SMALL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM).
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM, LARGE. A WECS of equal to or greater than
40kW in total name plate generating capacity.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM, SMALL. A WECS that is an accessory use of
less than 40 kW in total name plate generating capacity.
   WIND TOWER. Vertical structures that support the electrical generator, rotor
blades, or meteorological equipment.
   WIND TURBINE. Any piece of electrical generating equipment that converts the
kinetic of blowing wind into electrical energy through the use of airfoils or
similar devices to capture the wind.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. Structures, antennas, towers, fences and
related equipment and appurtenances associated with licensed commercial
wireless telecommunication services including, but not limited to, broadband,
broadcast, cellular, personal communications services (PCS), specialized
mobilized radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobilized radio (ESMR), paging, and
similar services that are marketed to the general public.
   YARD–FRONT, SIDE, REAR. The area between structures and the respective lot
line.
   ZONING CODE. 
Chapter 152 of this code.
   ZONING DISTRICT. An area or areas within the limits of the county for which
the regulations and requirements governing use, lot and size of building and
premises are uniform.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 4703-1, passed 5-5-03; Am. Ord. 58-1007,
passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 80-2015, passed 6-
16-15; Am. Ord. 88-2018, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21; Am.
Ord. 108-2024, passed 11-19-24)
§ 152.011 FEES.
   Certificate of zoning compliance fees, application fees, permit fees and any
other fees relating to official control measures shall be established by the
Carver County Fee Schedule as adopted by the County Board of Commissioners. Any
fees adopted shall be collected by the Department for deposit with the county
and credited to the general revenue funds.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
STANDARDS
§ 152.025 REQUIREMENT FOR COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or
altered and no structure or land shall be used for any purpose nor in any
manner unless it complies with the provisions of this chapter. A land use and/
or structure that is not referenced by the provisions of this chapter shall be
considered prohibited.
   (B)   Compliance with this chapter shall be required as follows:
      (1)   Before any land is hereafter occupied or used for any permitted or
accessory use in this chapter;
      (2)   Before any land is hereafter occupied or used in any manner for
which an administrative permit is issued, a conditional use permit or interim
use permit is issued or a variance is ordered;
      (3)   Before any building is erected or structurally altered;
      (4)   Before the principal use of a building, structure or land is
changed, or the open space character of the land is changed;
      (5)   Before any land is filled or is excavated and more than 400 cubic
yards of material is displaced. All activities involving fill or excavation
activities in a Floodplain District shall require an application for a
certificate;
      (6)   No accessory structure or accessory use, other than those
specifically allowed by this chapter, shall be permitted prior to the time of
the construction of the associated principal structure or establishment of the
associated principal use.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.026 DISCLOSURE OF USE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   All applicants for permits or certificates pursuant to this chapter shall,
as part of their application, disclose the use or storage of any hazardous
materials or chemicals, including but not limited to items that are flammable,
combustible, corrosive, toxic or reactive, or any material that could be
considered hazardous waste as defined by Chapter 51 of this code of ordinances.
Any permits issued where these substances are present shall address the proper
management of the materials.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.027 WATER MANAGEMENT, EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL.
   All activities conducted pursuant to this chapter, including activities that
involve grading, filling, or excavation, shall comply with
Chapter 153 of the Carver County Code (Water Resource Management) within the
Carver County Water Management Organization or the Minnehaha Creek Watershed
District permitting standards within the Minnehaha Creek Watershed, and the
erosion and sediment control design and operational standards as set forth in
Minnesota Permit R1000001 (the General Permit Authorization to Discharge Storm
Water Associated With Construction Activity Under the National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System), as amended from time to time. If one is more
restrictive, then the more restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.028 STRUCTURES IN A PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No structure or temporary structure shall be located in or on any public
lands or rights-of-way without a permit issued pursuant to appropriate county
ordinances or other regulations.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.029 FENCES.
   A boundary line fence is any fence that is erected within the required
structure setback for a property. A boundary line fence may be erected in a
required yard but shall not be erected in the public right-of-way. Boundary
line fences shall not exceed seven feet in height; the only exceptions to this
limitation are when a fence higher than seven feet is specifically required for
an agricultural operation or for screening/security as part of a conditional
use permit, variance, or other county permit process. Fences shall be no higher
than the horizontal distance between the fence and any residence on a
neighboring property. The height of a fence shall be measured based on the
average grade of the surrounding area. In cases where a fence is constructed on
a berm raising it above the surrounding area, the height of the berm shall be
included in the height measurement. On the interior lot lines of any property,
boundary line fences shall be located on the property of the property owner
causing the fence to be erected, unless the adjoining property owner agrees in
writing to have the fence erected on the property line. If no agreement can be
reached, a fence may still be erected on the property line, provided property
survey markers are present and known, otherwise a survey needs to be conducted.
Fences seven feet or more in height shall be constructed only after the
issuance of a permit as provided in the State Building Code.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.030 NO GARAGE, TENT, TRAILER.
   No garage, tent, trailer or cargo container, recreational camping vehicle,
or accessory buildings shall at any time be used as a permanent dwelling unit.
Temporary occupancy shall only be allowed in accordance with the standards of
this chapter.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.031 NO MORE THAN ONE PRINCIPAL RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE.
   No more than one principal residential structure shall be located on a lot
or as otherwise allowed in accordance with the standards of this chapter.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.032 UNLICENSED/INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES OR ACCUMULATION OF LICENSED
MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No more than a total of two unlicensed and/or inoperable motor vehicles
shall be kept or stored outside a building in any district unless specifically
permitted by this chapter or a CUP. On properties less than one and one-half
acres in size an accumulation of more than five licensed vehicles located
outside a building is prohibited. For the purposes of this section motor
vehicles shall include, but are not limited to, cars, trucks, semi tractors
and/or semi trailers, boats, motorcycles and recreational vehicles, regardless
of whether the vehicle has a motor. The following shall be considered to be
equivalent to one unlicensed or inoperable vehicle for the purposes of this
chapter:
   (A)   A vehicle without current registration; or
   (B)   A vehicle that is not functional or operable; or
   (C)   An out-of-service item of motorized farm equipment on a parcel less
than 20 acres; or
   (D)   Vehicle parts accumulations of five cubic yards.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 70-2010,
passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.033 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. A new lot shall not be created unless it conforms to all of
the following requirements. Any action that changes the size, configuration, or
shape of a lot is considered to be creating a new lot. The only exception is
where changes are being made to correct discrepancies in a legal description or
to recognize actual occupation.
   (B)   Reasonable use. All new lots created must have a reasonable use as
defined by this chapter. If there is no reasonable use, the lot shall not be
created.
   (C)   Minimum lot area requirements.
      (1)   Lots for a dwelling unit under the 1/40 (one per quarter-quarter)
provision shall have the following minimum lot sizes: 1½ acres in non-
shoreland; 1½ acres in shoreland of rivers or watercourse, general or
recreational development lakes; 2 acres in shoreland of natural environment
lakes.
      (2)   Lots for a dwelling unit under the density options and all
conditional use provisions shall have the following minimum lot size: 2½ acres
unless a different size is specified in the requirements for a permit.
      (3)   A parcel for which agriculture is the only reasonable use as
defined by this chapter must be a minimum of 20 acres.
   (D)   Road frontage, lot width and depth.
      (1)   Road frontage. All new lots shall have frontage on a public road or
be attached to an adjacent parcel having the required road frontage; minimum
road frontage is 125 feet.
      (2)   Minimum width. One hundred twenty-five feet with 125 feet of
frontage on a public road existing at the time of application or the minimum
width required to maintain width to depth ratio, whichever is greater. The
required minimum width of a specified lot must be maintained for the entire
depth of the lot except where the lot is located on a cul-de-sac.
      (3)   Minimum lot depth. One hundred twenty-five feet.
      (4)   Width to depth ratio. Depth of the lot shall not exceed five times
the width. Road frontage of 500 feet or more will support a lot of any depth.
      (5)   Minimum width for lots in the Shoreland Overlay District.
         (a)   Natural environment lakes - 200 feet;
         (b)   Recreational development lakes - 150 feet;
         (c)   General development lakes - 150 feet;
         (d)   Protected rivers and watercourses - 150 feet.
   (E)   Lot configuration. Lot configuration for new lots containing a home
and associated buildings that existed prior to July 1, 1974: If the buildings
are located such that to meet the requirements above would utilize more than
five acres of long term agricultural land, then lot configuration may be as
follows:
      (1)   Minimum road frontage and lot width - 66 feet. This 66 feet shall
either include the existing driveway or a new driveway that is constructed to
minimize the severing of tilled land.
      (2)   Lot width will be measured at the building location and must be
such that the side yard setbacks of the zoning district are met for all
existing buildings.
      (3)   Lot depth shall be such that the distance from the buildings to the
rear lot line meets the rear yard setback of the zoning district.
      (4)   Lot shall be configured so that there is an area that can be
utilized for an alternate SSTS.
   (F)   Use of prime AG land.   Lots of less than 20 acres created for a new
residential building site shall contain no more than 2 acres of prime
agricultural land under till. No land subdivision involving an existing
residential parcel shall result in the parcel containing more than two acres of
land with prime agricultural soils. The setbacks as required by this chapter
shall not be included in the calculation.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21; Am. Ord. 108-2024, passed 11-19-24)
§ 152.034 SETBACKS.
   (A)   No reduction in setback. No setback existing upon the effective date
of this chapter shall be reduced in area or dimension so as to make the setback
less than the minimum required by this chapter.
   (B)   Existing buildings on new lots. Any new lot created that contains
existing buildings must be configured so that all setback requirements from new
lot lines are met.
   (C)   Exemptions. The following shall not be subject to setback
requirements:
      (1)   Chimneys, flues, belt courses, leaders, sills, pilaster, lintels,
cornices, eaves, gutters, provided they do not extend more than two feet into a
setback area;
      (2)   Yard lights and signs provided they are located three feet or more
from all lot lines. Luminaries must be full-cutoff or fully shielded. Lights
for illuminated parking or loading areas or yards for safety and security
purposes may be installed where necessary provided that glare is not visible
from public right-of-way or adjacent residential property and not more than
three foot candles of light intensity is present at a residential property
line;
      (3)   In the front yard, balconies that extend a distance of four feet or
less, provided they are seven feet or more above grade at the building line.
Also steps, driveways, stoops, and uncovered porches which do not extend in
elevation above the ground floor level of the principal building;
      (4)   In the side yard, terraces, steps, uncovered porches or stoops
which do not extend in elevation above the height of the ground floor level of
the principal building; and
      (5)   In the rear yard, recreation equipment, parking, driveways, patios.
   (D)   Table of setback requirements. All structures unless exempted above;
and signs and parking areas near a public right-of-way:
 
Side Lot Line Setbacks         All Districts 15 feet
Rear Lot Line Setback          All Districts 30 feet
                                             Structures 50 feet; 100 feet for
Bluff Setback–All Structures               actively eroding bluffs.
Bluff Impact Zone              All Districts The clear-cutting of existing
                                             natural vegetation or other
                                             disturbance is prohibited.
                                             The front setback shall be
                                             required from any public road or
                                             private road serving the function
Front Setbacks                              of a public road. Front setbacks
                                             are measured from the center of
                                             the road. R-O-W shall be the
                                             typical planned right-of-way.
                                             As required by the Carver County
                                             Water Management Organization,
Wetlands                       All Districts Minnehaha Creek Watershed
                                             District, this chapter, or
                                             Minnesota Wetland Conservation
                                             Act, as applicable.
 
Future Functional
Class of Road as Shown Setback from Reduced Setback* R-O-W Reduced R-O-W
in Roadway Systems     Centerline
Plan Figure 4.13
Future Functional
Class of Road as Shown Setback from Reduced Setback*     R-O-W Reduced R-O-W
in Roadway Systems     Centerline
Plan Figure 4.13
Principal arterial not 145          90                   200   130
in Shoreland District
Principal arterial in  150          Right-of-way plus 50 200   130
Shoreland District                  ft.
Minor reliever,
connector, expander,   120          80                   150   110
or other arterial not
in Shoreland District
Minor reliever,
connector, expander,   125          Right-of-way plus 50 150   110
or other arterial in                ft.
Shoreland District
Collector (major and
minor) roads not in    95           75                   120   100
Shoreland District
Collector (major and                Right-of-way plus 50
minor) roads in        110          ft.                  120   100
Shoreland District
Local roads not in     68           N/A                  66
Shoreland District
Local roads in         68           N/A                  66
Shoreland District
In a case where the actual R-O-W plus 35 feet results in a greater setback
requirement; this greater requirement shall be enforced. Right-of-way for
county roadways with a corridor study shall be designated per the study.
In a case where a cul-de-sac is present, the front setback shall be measured
from the center of the cul-de-sac. No structure shall be closer than 35 feet
from the exterior radius of a cul-de-sac.
 
Setbacks from Ordinary High Setback Required for
Water Level in Shoreland    Structures           Setback Required for SSTS
District
Setbacks from Ordinary High   Setback Required for
Water Level in Shoreland      Structures           Setback Required for SSTS
District
Natural environment lake      150                  as required by
                                                   Chapter 52
Recreational development lake 100                  as required by
                                                   Chapter 52
General development lake      75                   as required by
                                                   Chapter 52
Agriculture, urban and        100                  as required by
tributary rivers                                   Chapter 52
When more than one setback applies to a site, structures and facilities must
be located to meet all setbacks, and comply with the following OHWL setback
provisions.
Structures and sewage treatment systems must meet setbacks from the ordinary
high water level (OHWL), except that one water-oriented accessory structure
or facility, designed in accordance with §
152.118.1, may be set back a minimum distance of ten feet from the OHWL.
* Provision for reduction of front setback: The front setback may be reduced
by the Department to the value shown, provided the applicant demonstrates
need; and, the responsible road authority submits a statement certifying
that the reduction will not impair any planned widening, relocation, repair,
upgrading, construction or similar activity.
NOTICE: The SSTS regulations,
Chapter 52, feedlot management regulations,
Chapter 54, water and wetland rules,
Chapter 153, and sign regulations,
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances contain setback provisions that may
affect the placement of buildings and structures. All setback provisions of
those chapters must be maintained.
 
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21; Am. Ord. 108-2024, passed 11-19-24)
§ 152.035 SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM (SSTS) STANDARDS.
   (A)   Treatment required. All sewage generated by human occupancy,
habitation or activity shall be properly managed in accordance with
Chapter 52 of this code of ordinances or be treated in a municipal wastewater
treatment system.
   (B)   Standard for new systems. Permits shall be issued, building
eligibilities granted, or a site shall be considered suitable for the
construction of new residences or other activities requiring sewage treatment
by an SSTS on land that has a minimum of 12 inches of separation between the
periodically saturated soil or other limiting factor and the surface of the
soil in its original, natural state. This separation shall be demonstrated by
the submission of soil borings, provided by a licensed SSTS designer and
verified by the Environmental Services Department, identifying a primary and
alternate SSTS site as required in
Chapter 52 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   New lots. New lots less than 20 acres which are intended for a land
use which will require an SSTS shall not be created unless a plan showing two
soil treatment sites, a primary site and alternate site is submitted.
Suitability of the sites shall be documented by the submission of a soil
borings by a licensed SSTS designer. The plan shall clearly show the location
of both the primary and alternate SSTS sites. Lots of 20 acres or more shall
contain at least two acres of soils that will accommodate an SSTS that meets
Minn. Rules Chapter 7080, based on the USDA Web Soil Survey. The Department
after consultation with the Environmental Services Department may require the
identification of two soil treatment sites as provided for lots of greater than
20 acres.
   (D)   New lots containing existing uses. New lots which contain an existing
land use required to utilize an SSTS shall not be created unless the existing
SSTS is issued a certificate of compliance or a guarantee is provided that
ensures the issuance of a certificate of compliance within ten months of the
application approval date or the time required by
Chapter 52 of this code of ordinances, whichever is more restrictive. Lots of
less than 20 acres shall submit a plan with soil borings for an alternate SSTS
site. The plan shall include a soil borings report for the site, which has been
prepared by a licensed SSTS designer. A certificate of compliance and an
alternate SSTS site shall not be required when the lot is the result of a land
exchange for purposes of correcting errors in legal descriptions, changing
legal descriptions to reflect lines of occupation, or the attachment of land to
an existing parcel to provide land to accommodate an SSTS upgrade or to bring a
nonconforming lot into conformity. For the purpose of this section, a new lot
shall be any parcel, parent parcel, or remnant parcel created as the result of
a minor subdivision or plat application, pursuant to
Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances.
   (E)   Issuance of permits; SSTS compliance required. In all districts, for
all systems which have been determined to be a direct discharge, imminent
health threat, or for which there are no county SSTS records existing on the
property at the time of application, a permit shall not be issued unless the
requirements of §
152.122 are met.
   (F)   Protection of primary and alternate SSTS sites. On parcels where an
SSTS site plan has been submitted, the primary and alternate sites shall be
protected from activities that may render the sites unsuitable for future SSTS
use. The sites shall be staked and flagged so they are clearly identified. The
sites shall not be disturbed and shall be left in their natural state until the
SSTS is constructed. No buildings shall be erected on the sites nor shall the
sites be used for parking vehicles. Heavy equipment must be kept off the sites
and no trees shall be planted on the sites. If either site has been disturbed
or rendered unusable, a plan including soil borings identifying a new SSTS site
(s) shall be submitted.
   (G)   Permit review. All permits that include activities that may affect the
ability to locate an alternate SSTS site on a parcel shall be reviewed to
ensure that a feasible alternate SSTS site is preserved. The Department, in
consultation with the Environmental Services Department, may require soil
borings to identify a suitable alternate SSTS site.
   (H)   Temporary uses. Temporary uses, such as construction and similar
activities, and other uses permitted pursuant to this chapter which may exist
for a short period of time and have a number of people on the premises that
cannot be accommodated by an existing SSTS may be required to provide
additional auxiliary sanitary facilities.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 64-2008, passed 4-8-08; Am. Ord. 70-2010,
passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.036 ACCESS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Relation to road authority. Nothing in this chapter shall abrogate the
ability of a road authority to approve, deny, or require modification of an
access, require a permit for an access, develop and impose standards and
conditions for an access. Approval by the Department of an access pursuant to
this chapter shall not constitute approval by the road authority nor shall
approval by the Department require that the road authority approve the access.
   (B)   Number of accesses limited. With the exception of field access drives,
any principal use of land requiring access to a public road shall be limited to
a single access connection. All parcels shall be limited to a single access,
unless through the conditional, interim, or accessory use permitting process an
additional access is supported by the operational plan and/or site plan, it is
approved by the road authority, and it meets the standards of this chapter.
   (C)   Field access drives. A new or existing field entrance is exempt from
the standards of this chapter provided all other permitting requirements of the
road authority are met. An access connection to a farmstead, feedlot or farm-
related structures are not considered a field entrance, and must comply with
the standards of this chapter. If a different use for a property served by an
existing field entrance is proposed, the presence of a field entrance shall not
be construed as a right to continue that access connection. When the use of the
property changes to a nonexempt use, compliance with the standards of this
chapter shall be required, which shall include compliance with access permit
requirements.
   (D)   Access to state highways.
      (1)   All new driveways for residential, commercial or zoning permits
shall be constructed in accordance with State of Minnesota adopted standards
and policy, per Minnesota Department of Transportation (MnDOT) regulations.
      (2)   Authorization to construct or alter an access to a state highway
shall consist of a permit signed by the MnDOT Engineer or authorized
representative. No access shall be constructed or altered to a state highway
until such permit has been obtained.
      (3)   All existing driveway or field access locations may be modified,
closed or altered as a conditional approval for any plat approval, zoning
permit, grading permit or building permit issued by the county.
      (4)   Turn and/or by-pass lanes may be required as a condition of
approval for certain traffic generating land uses (i.e. permitted, conditional
or interim use) as determined by the MnDOT Engineer or authorized
representative.
   (E)   Access to county roads.
      (1)   All new driveways for residential, commercial or zoning permits
shall be constructed in accordance with county adopted standards and policy.
      (2)   Prior to submitting a subdivision application, the applicant shall
demonstrate access to the parcel.
         (a)   If the proposed access is on a county road an approved access
permit is required prior to subdivision approval.
         (b)   If the proposed access is a shared access on a county road an
approved access permit is required prior to subdivision approval.
         (c)   For shared access locations an easement needs to be recorded on
all properties, where applicable.
      (3)   Authorization to construct or alter an access to a county road
shall consist of a permit signed by the County Engineer or authorized
representative. No access shall be constructed or altered to a county road
until such permit has been obtained.
      (4)   All existing driveway or field access locations may be modified,
closed or altered as a conditional approval for any plat approval, zoning
permit, grading permit or building permit issued by the county.
      (5)   Turn and/or by-pass lanes may be required as a condition of
approval for certain traffic generating land uses (i.e. permitted, conditional
or interim use) as determined by the County Engineer or authorized
representative.
   (F)   Access to township roads. All private accesses to a public road other
than field access drives shall meet a 100-foot access separation. The
separation standards shall apply to the side of the road where the access is
located. In cases where the road frontage of a lot of record is insufficient to
permit adequate separation, an access not meeting the standards may be
permitted. The access shall be located as required by the road authority; if
the road authority has no preference the access shall be located as far as
possible from accesses on either side.
      (1)   Authorization to construct or alter a driveway on a township road
shall consist of a permit signed by a representative of the Town Board.
      (2)   Driveways shall be constructed in accordance with township
standards.
      (3)   No driveway shall be constructed to a township road until such
permit has been obtained.
   (G)   Accesses near intersections. In addition to the required minimum lot
area and dimensions contained in this chapter, all corner lots shall be of
adequate dimension to accommodate corner clearances specified below. When a
private access is requested near the intersection of two roads the following
shall apply:
      (1)   For a county road and a township road, access on the township road
shall be at least 1/8 mile (660 ft.) From the intersection of the county road
and shall not be located within any turn lane serving the county road
intersection.
      (2)   For two township roads, on the road of higher classification, the
access shall be no closer than 300 feet from the center of the proposed access
to the center of the intersecting public road;
      (3)   For two township roads, on the road of lower classification, the
access shall be no closer than 150 feet from the center of the proposed access
to the center of the intersecting public road;
      (4)   At an intersection of two roads with the same functional
classification, the road with the higher traffic volume shall be considered the
road of higher classification;
      (5)   Accesses shall not be located within any turn lane or bypass lane.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 80-2015,
passed 6-16-15; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.037 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations. All structures shall have a maximum height of 35
feet except those structures specifically excepted below and subject to the
provisions thereof.
   (B)   Height limitations; exceptions. The maximum height as stated above
shall be increased to 100 feet for the following: belfries, church spires and
steeples, cooling towers, flagpoles, smokestacks, water towers, farm accessory
structures and similar structures. The structure shall be located at least the
height of the structure plus 10 feet from any lot line. Structures in excess of
100 feet shall be permitted only upon issuance of a CUP. For a structure of 200
feet or more in height, the procedures of Minn. Rules 8800.0100 through
8800.1200, as they may be amended from time to time, shall be observed.
Wireless communications facilities are regulated by §§
152.052 and
152.056. Energy production facilities are regulated by §
152.057.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.038 PARKING STANDARDS.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   The Department and the County Board of Commissioners shall have the
authority to modify parking standards for special use and conditional use
permits, when applicable.
      (2)   Existing off-street parking spaces upon the effective date of this
chapter shall not be reduced in number unless the number exceeds the
requirements set forth herein for a similar new use.
      (3)   The owner or occupant of all land parcels in the unincorporated
area of Carver County shall provide off-street parking as set forth in this
chapter to alleviate or prevent congestion of the public right-of-way and
promote the safety and general welfare of the public.
      (4)   Should a building, structure or use in existence upon the effective
date of this chapter be damaged or destroyed by fire or other cause, it may be
re-established according to standards regarding any nonconformities but in
doing so the number of off-street parking spaces which existed must be retained
and should plans be proposed for enlarging the floor area, seating capacity or
other facilities which would affect the parking spaces, shall be enlarged
accordingly.
      (5)   Calculating parking space.
         (a)   Benches. In churches, recreation facilities, and other places of
public assembly in which patrons or spectators occupy benches, pews or similar
seating facilities, each 22 inches of the seating facility shall be counted as
one seat for the purposes of determining requirements for off- street parking
facilities under this chapter.
         (b)   Fractions. When determining the number of off-street parking
spaces results in a fraction, each fraction of one-half or more shall
constitute another space.
         (c)   Multiple uses. Should a structure contain two or more types of
use, each use shall be calculated separately for determining the total off-
street parking spaces required.
      (6)   Location.
         (a)   In all zoning districts, any off-street parking space shall not
be designated within the actual or prescriptive road right-of-way, whichever is
greater.
         (b)   The parking spaces must not create unsafe traffic or pedestrian
conditions.
   (B)   Parking lot design.
      (1)   Off-street parking areas shall be surfaced to control dust and
shall be drained to dispose of all surface water accumulation within the
parking area in accordance with the County Erosion Control and Water Management
Plan. All surfacing must be completed prior to the occupancy of the structure,
unless otherwise approved by the Department and/or County Board of
Commissioners.
      (2)   Each parking space shall be unobstructed and not less than 9 feet
wide and 20 feet in length, plus adequate system of access.
      (3)   The grade elevation of any parking area shall not exceed 5% except
as approved by the Department.
      (4)   Disability accessible parking spaces shall be provided as
applicable pursuant to M.S. § 169.346, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Minimum off-street parking requirements.
      (1)   Schools, elementary and junior high. At least one parking space for
each classroom plus one additional space for each 100 student capacity and each
administration employee.
      (2)   High school through college. At least one parking space for each
classroom plus one additional space for each five students based on designed
capacity and for each administration employee.
      (3)   Churches and clubs. At least one parking space for each three seats
based on the design capacity of the main assembly hall.
      (4)   Recreational facilities. At least one parking space for each eight
seats designed capacity.
      (5)   Golf course. Twenty spaces, plus three spaces per hole. If a
restaurant and/or bar is established, one additional space per four seats is
required. Additional requirements may be added if additional activities are
proposed.
      (6)   Minimum convenience shopping. At least four parking spaces plus
three for each service stall.
      (7)   Agricultural support. Four parking spaces plus one parking space
for each 800 square feet of the first 1,000 feet of space.
      (8)   Manufacturing, fabricating or processing of a product or material.
Four parking spaces plus one for each 400 square feet of floor area.
      (9)   Other uses. Spaces for uses not listed shall use be calculated by
the land management department based on, but not limited to, the
characteristics for similar uses and professional studies prepared by American
Planning Association or Institute of Traffic Engineers.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21; Am. Ord. 108-2024, passed 11-19-24)
§ 152.039 (RESERVED).
§ 152.040 OPERATIONAL STANDARDS.
   (Note: many of these standards pertain to state or federal jurisdiction and
are referenced as such.)
   (A)   Purpose: The guiding of development so as to create a compatible
relationship of uses depends upon certain standards being maintained.
   (B)   Uses permitted in the various districts, conditional and accessory
uses, shall conform to the following standards:
      (1)   Semi-trailers, railroad cars, or similar equipment shall not be
used as commercial or residential accessory structures.
      (2)   A single cargo container may be used for permanent personal storage
or as an agricultural storage structure on a legally described parcel, provided
the following conditions can be met:
         (a)   The subject parcel is a minimum of five acres.
         (b)   The subject parcel shall not exceed the maximum allowed square
footage for personal storage as listed in §
152.073, unless a variance has been approved.
         (c)   The cargo container meets all applicable setbacks and separation
distance as required by the county zoning code.
         (d)   A building permit for the placement of the cargo container is
obtained.
         (e)   The cargo container meets all applicable requirements of the
building code.
         (f)   The cargo container does not exceed 320 square feet.
         (g)   The cargo container is a neutral color, and is prohibited from
displaying any logo, sign, advertising, or message as regulated by Chapter 154
(Sign Regulations).
         (h)   Screening consisting of a berm (2:1 maximum slope with
supplemental plant materials including trees, shrubs, and groundcovers) and/or
a continuous evergreen vegetative buffer shall be provided and maintained at
all times around the perimeter of a cargo container that faces (a) public road
right-of-way within 250 feet of the structure, (b) an existing residence or
farmstead within 300 feet of the structure not on the subject parcel, or (c)
residentially zoned or platted property within 300 feet of the structure.
      (3)   In addition to the above, a single cargo container may be used for
temporary storage during a permitted construction project provided it is shown
on the approved site plan for the project. The cargo container shall be removed
from the property prior to the project receiving any final approval(s).
      (4)   In addition to the above, a single cargo container may be used for
the temporary storage of an owner or a tenant’s personal belongings during the
process of moving in or out of a residential dwelling or commercial location.
The temporary cargo container shall not exceed 320 square feet and shall not
remain longer than 60 days.
      (5)   Vibration. Any use creating periodic earth shaking vibrations such
as may be created from a drop forge shall be prohibited if the vibrations are
perceptible beyond the lot line of the site on which the use is located. The
standard shall not apply to vibrations created during the process of
construction.
      (6)   Glare or heat. Any use requiring an operation producing an intense
heat or direct light transmission shall be performed with the necessary
shielding to prevent the heat or direct light from being detectable at the lot
line on the site on which the use is located.
      (7)   Explosives. Any use requiring the storage, utilization or
manufacturing of Class A explosives shall be located not less than 400 feet
from the lot line.
      (8)   Traffic control. The traffic generated by any use shall be
channelized and controlled in a manner that will avoid congestion on the public
streets, safety hazards and excessive traffic through residential areas.
Traffic into and out of all commercial and industrial uses and areas shall in
all cases be forward moving, with no backing onto streets or pedestrian ways.
      (9)   Standards relating to noise, air emissions, toxic and noxious
matter, radiation and electro- magnetic emissions are regulated by state and/or
federal laws. Compliance with the laws shall be as determined by the
appropriate state and/or federal regulatory agency, except as regulated by
another county ordinance.
      (10)   Slopes in excess of 18% shall be left in their natural state
unless the alteration of the slope is unavoidable, there are no viable
alternatives, and the alteration conforms to all other county requirements.
Alterations shall be designed and approved by a registered engineer. Activities
intended to stop slumping or erosion shall be exempt from this standard if
approved by the SWCD.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.041 SCREENING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. The screening of activities conducted under a conditional use
permit, interim use permit or variance issued under this chapter may be
required as a condition of a permit or variance to break up the visual profile
in an aesthetically pleasing manner.
   (B)   If screening is required as a condition, the following standards shall
be complied with:
      (1)   A planting strip shall consist of evergreens, deciduous trees,
shrubs and/or plants of a sufficient density to compose a substantially opaque
visual screen and reasonable buffer viewed at a 90 degree angle from the
planting strip.
      (2)   A planting strip shall be designed to provide visual screening to a
minimum height of six feet. The grade for determining height shall be the grade
elevation of the building or use for which the screening is providing
protection, unless otherwise established by the Land Management Department. An
earth berm may be used but shall not be used to achieve more than eight feet of
the required screen. The planting plan and type of plantings shall require the
approval of the Planning Department.
      (3)   Plant material centers shall not be located closer than three feet
from the fence line or property line and shall not be planted to conflict with
public plantings, sidewalks, trails, fences, parking areas, and driveways based
on the judgment of the Planning Department.
      (4)   Where massing of plants or screening is intended, large deciduous
shrubs shall be planted four feet on center or closer, and/or, evergreen shrubs
shall be planted eight feet on center or closer.
      (5)   Trees and shrubs shall not be planted in the right-of-way.
      (6)   Trees and shrubs shall not be planted in or across any recorded
easement.
      (7)   All plants required as part of an approved screening plan shall be
maintained and kept alive. Dead plants shall be replaced in accordance with the
approved screening plan.
      (8)   All new plants shall be guaranteed for a full growing season from
the time planting has been completed. All plants shall be alive, of good
quality, and diseases free at the end of the warranty period or be replaced.
Any replacements shall be warranted for a full growing season from the time of
planting. The growing season is herein defined as the period from June 1 to
September 30.
      (9)   Planting operations shall be conducted under favorable weather
conditions during one of the following planting seasons as specified herein.
For deciduous plant materials, spring planting should occur from April 1 to
June 1; and fall planting from September 30 to November 15. For coniferous
plant materials, spring planting should occur from April 1 to May 15; and fall
planting from August 15 to October 15.
      (10)   Any proposed modifications to these landscape requirements must
consider a site- specific design solution if site conditions are deemed
appropriate and other functional requirements (screening, etc.) are met.
      (11)   Financial surety pursuant to the Carver County Fee Schedule may be
required to insure the establishment of the required screening. If required,
the following standards shall apply:
         (a)   The responsible party shall provide surety for the performance
of the work described and delineated on the approved landscape plan and any
related remedial work.
         (b)   The acreage on which the financial surety is calculated is based
on the width of a ten-foot wide planting strip multiplied by the length of
installation of the planting material or total length of berm.
         (c)   The form and conditions of the surety shall be as follows:
            1.   Deposit, either with the county or a responsible escrow agent,
cash escrow. The financial assurance must be in a form acceptable to the county
and from a surety licensed to do business in the State of Minnesota.
            2.   The financial assurance shall be in favor of the county and
conditioned upon the applicant's performance of the authorized activity in
compliance with the permit and applicable laws, including this chapter, and the
payment when due of any fees or other charges authorized or required by the
permit and this chapter. The financial assurance shall state that in the event
the conditions of the financial assurance are not met, the county may make a
claim against it. The county shall be authorized to make a claim or draw
against the surety after any default by the responsible party under the permit
or these rules.
            3.   If at any time during the course of the work or the initial
two growing seasons the financial surety amount falls below 50% of the required
deposit, the responsible party shall make another deposit in the amount
necessary to restore the cash deposit to the required amount.
            4.   If the responsible party does not bring the financial surety
back up to the required amount within seven days after notification by the
county that the amount has fallen below 50% of the required amount the county
may take such legal action as specified in § 152.999 of this chapter.
            5.   The county shall be authorized to make a claim or draw against
the surety after any default by the responsible party under the permit or this
chapter.
            6.   The county may use funds from this surety to finance remedial
work undertaken by the county or a private contractor and to reimburse the
county for all costs incurred in the process of remedial work including, but
not limited to, staff time and attorney's fees under the following
circumstances:
               i.   The responsible party ceases land altering activities and
abandons the work site prior to completion of the screening plan;
               ii.   The responsible party fails to conform to the screening
plan as approved by the county;
               iii.   The screening techniques utilized under the screening
plan are not maintained during site construction, for the initial two growing
seasons after being planted; or
               iv.   The responsible party fails to reimburse the county for
corrective action.
            7.   The surety deposited with the county for faithful performance
of the screening plan and any related remedial work to finance necessary
remedial work shall be released after the practices identified in the screening
plan have been installed, two full growing seasons have elapsed from the time
of planting, and a final inspection has been completed by the county.
            8.   The county may return a portion of the financial surety
submitted to assure performance if the county determines that the entire amount
is no longer required to ensure compliance with permit conditions and rules.
(Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21; Am. Ord. 108-2024, passed 11-19-24)
ESSENTIAL SERVICES
§ 152.050 SCOPE.
   (A)   Land uses that serve a public need, or are deemed beneficial or
essential to the public health and safety, welfare, or serving a public good of
the community as determined by the County Board are considered essential
services. These land uses, being necessary for the public health, safety, and
welfare, and serving a public good, may be located in any area where it is
essential to perform their function, provided the applicant demonstrates that
the location is essential to perform the function and an appropriate siting
process is utilized. The factors to be considered in the siting process include
those set forth in the comprehensive plan and other factors applicable to the
nature of the activity being proposed. The provisions of the zoning and overlay
districts may be given consideration when considering an application for a
conditional use permit when one is required, but the provisions shall not
prohibit the location of essential services in any district.
   (B)   An essential service would typically fall into one or more of the
following categories of activities:
 
      (1)   Governmental uses, buildings, and storage. Governmental services
such as office buildings, garages, temporary open space, open storage when not
a principal use, fire and police stations, parks and recreational areas,
training centers, correctional facilities or other essential uses proposed by
federal, state, county, local, special districts, and school districts.
      (2)   Public or private utility primary uses, energy production,
transmission services, buildings, structures, towers, and storage. Transmission
services such as electrical power lines of a voltage of 35 KV or greater, or
bulk gas or fuel being transferred from station to station and not intended for
en-route consumption or other similar equipment and accessories.
      (3)   Public or private utility accessory uses. Underground or overhead
electrical, gas, steam or water distribution systems, collection,
communications, supply or disposal system, including poles, wire, mains,
drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes,
traffic signals, hydrants, or other similar equipment and accessories; but not
including buildings or transmission services.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.051 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses in all districts:
   (A)   Transmission systems designed for en-route consumption are permitted
uses in all zoning districts and may be installed within the public right-of-
way and easements according to the standards of the responsible authority and
after receiving approval from the responsible road authority. Essential
services extended from the system to serve a single parcel of land abutting a
public right-of-way or easement are not subject to height, yard and setback
regulations, certificate of occupancy or other than the approval of the owner.
Should a non-public easement be desired for installation of an essential
service which will serve more than one parcel of land, the easement shall
require approval under the conditional use permit provisions;
   (B)   Towers and antennas 100 feet in height above ground level (AGL) or
less, which are not wireless communications facilities. These personal use
facilities, including, but not limited to, television, CB radio, farm and
business communications, and wind generators are permitted upon the issuance of
a building permit provided the proposed use serves only the subject parcel and
the structure is located a distance at least the total height of the structure
plus ten feet from any lot line;
   (C)   Amateur radio support structures. Amateur radio support structures
(towers) shall not exceed a height above ground level of 100 feet, unless a
conditional use permit has been granted. They shall be mounted on the roof of a
dwelling or other building or located in the rear yard unless there is not
sufficient space to erect them in those locations. They shall be installed in
accordance with the instructions furnished by the manufacturer of that tower
model. Because of experimental nature of the amateur radio service, antennas
mounted on a tower may be modified and changed at any time so long as the
published allowable load on the tower is not exceeded and the structure of the
tower remains in accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications;
   (D)   Public roads, streets, highways, cartways, and trails; and
   (E)   Stormwater management system and structures including public ditches
constructed pursuant to M.S. Chapter 103E, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (F)   All requests, with provided documentation, which identifies a project
as being under the jurisdiction of a state or federal regulatory commission
(Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), Public Utilities Commission
(PUC), etc.).
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.052 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Unless specifically exempted herein, all activities in this section
shall be conducted only under a conditional use permit issued pursuant to this
chapter. A conditional use permit is not needed under this section to maintain,
reconstruct or relocate existing lines or facilities where the general line and
confirmation thereof remains essentially the same unless the construction is
within the traveled roadway. When the proposed activity is within the traveled
roadway, a permit or other authorization shall be obtained from the responsible
road authority. Emergency work otherwise requiring a filing or application
shall be accomplished provided filing or application is made as soon thereafter
as possible.
   (B)   A pre-application meeting with county land management staff is
required prior to submitting an application for all activities in this section
that requires a public hearing.
   (C)   Any application for a conditional use permit shall outline the siting
process that was utilized to select the site and shall address the relationship
of the site to the following factors:
      (1)   Site requirements for the facility;
      (2)   Use of prime agricultural land and environmentally sensitive areas;
      (3)   Traffic generation, road access;
      (4)   Adverse effects on the environment, especially those that cannot be
mitigated and/or reversed;
      (5)   Potential for the pollution of air, groundwater, surface water;
      (6)   Agricultural preserve status of the land. Agricultural preserve
land may be used for essential services only if no other alternatives exist,
and then only after an eminent domain proceeding ordering the land removed from
agricultural preserve. When ten or more acres of agricultural preserve land
will be used, the procedure in the statute will be followed in making the
determination. In cases where the Environmental Quality Board review provisions
of the statute do not apply (the land is less than ten acres), the need shall
be considered as part of the consideration of the conditional use permit or
other approval process. Release from agricultural preserve will be accomplished
by the filing of the appropriate court documents indicating that the use is in
fact a public purpose and ordering termination of the preserve;
      (7)   Effects on existing and planned land uses in the area;
      (8)   Need for services and infrastructure;
      (9)   Any additional information specified under a particular provision
in this section.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.053 PUBLIC UTILITY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Public utility buildings and structures, structures such as
substations or similar structures not customarily considered industrial in use,
and radio and communication towers not considered “wireless communication
facilities” are allowed in all zoning districts provided a conditional use
permit is issued.
   (B)   This section shall be exempt from the minimum lot size requirements to
permit a lot area less than the minimum required for the district in which the
building or structure is located.
   (C)   In consideration of an application for a conditional use permit the
Planning Commission shall consider:
      (1)   The operational plan and potential for future expansion;
      (2)   The landscape treatment options and requirements for screening
where appropriate;
      (3)   The security and design standards to prevent trespassing; and
      (4)   The access and parking needs for the site.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.054 PUBLIC/QUASI-PUBLIC FACILITIES.
   The following shall be considered public or quasi-public facilities
requiring a conditional use permit:
   (A)   Municipal, township or county structures or uses of land except roads
and their appurtenances and drainage systems established pursuant to M.S.
Chapter 106, as it may be amended from time to time;
   (B)   Schools. Schools and related facilities provided they have the
approval of the State Department of Education;
   (C)   Public parks provided the facilities are in compliance with the Carver
County Comprehensive Plan;
   (D)   Waste management facilities. The following are considered waste
management facilities or operations for this section: private- or government-
owned or operated sites for: solid waste facility, transfer station, demolition
land disposal facility, recycling facility, incinerator, public or private
composting or tree or yard waste utilization site, application of biosolids or
bioremediated materials, or similar materials are considered waste management
facilities under this section. Operations that would be considered a
contractor’s yard are exempt from this section and would need to be considered
under the appropriate provisions. The following standards shall apply to
activities under this provision:
      (1)   The facility/operation is in compliance with the county solid waste
regulations, comprehensive plan, Groundwater and Surface Water Management
Plans, the Solid Waste Master Plan and any other applicable ordinance or rule;
      (2)   The facility/operation shall be on a hard surfaced road (bituminous
or concrete) unless written approval for the location on a gravel township road
is given by the affected township;
      (3)   The site shall not be located within the Shoreland or Floodplain
Districts;
      (4)   Any required environmental assessment documents have been developed
and required review procedures have been completed;
      (5)   Any required county, state, or federal licenses have been issued;
      (6)   The facility/operation is in compliance with all applicable
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
rules and regulations;
      (7)   An operational plan shall be developed and the activity conducted
in accordance with the operational plan;
      (8)   The permit shall be subject to compliance review;
      (9)   Special provisions for the land application of biosolids or
bioremediated materials;
      (10)   Permits involving biosolids or bioremediated materials that are to
be applied to agricultural land for agricultural purposes at agronomic rates
are exempt from the prohibition on permit issuance on AG preserve land.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 70-2010,
passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.055 TRANSMISSION SYSTEMS–NO EN-ROUTE CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   The installation of new, realigned or extended transmission systems
not intended for en-route consumption shall require a conditional use permit
unless the proposed use is being permitted through another state or federal
entity.
   (B)   The applicant for a permit shall conform to the following procedures:
      (1)   The applicant shall file with the Department maps and data as
requested by the Department to indicate the proposed alignment with the
conditions of easement, type of service proposed, depths and size of
underground installations, pole heights, location and type and other data as
requested.
      (2)   The applicant shall demonstrate public need for the service.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.056 WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES AND TOWERS OR ANTENNAS.
   (A)   Conditional use permit required. Towers and antennas less than 200
feet in height above ground level (AGL), including appurtenances, (as defined
by Part 77 of Federal Aviation Regulations as revised) for wireless
communications facilities are permitted upon the issuance of a conditional use
permit pursuant to this section.
   (B)   General requirements.
      (1)   The structure/facility shall not be located on agricultural
preserve land unless eminent domain action establishes a public purpose as
required by the comprehensive plan.
      (2)   The structure/facility shall not be located within any transition
area (as identified in the comprehensive plan) unless the affected municipality
adopts a resolution in support of the location.
      (3)   In situations where there is an existing home or available building
eligibility, the location of the structure/facility shall not deprive the
subject property of a building site as defined in this chapter.
      (4)   The structure/facility shall be located on publicly held land and/
or land within a Rural Service District, if the land is available, and the
location is feasible, within the applicant’s search area.
   (C)   Requirements for conditional use permit application in addition to
those required pursuant to other appropriate sections of this chapter or as
otherwise requested by the Department.
      (1)   Documentation illustrating compliance or pending compliance with
FAA and FCC authorization procedures.
      (2)   Documentation of the area to be served including a search area for
the antenna location. A narrative describing a search area (with not less than
a 1½-mile radius) for the request clearly explaining why the site was selected,
any environmental review that was conducted including a summary of relevant
conclusions, and what existing structures were available and why they are not
suitable as locations or co- locations.
      (3)   Documentation that the communications equipment planned for the
proposed tower cannot be accommodated on an existing or approved tower or
building within the search area due to one or more of the following reasons:
         (a)   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of
the existing or approved tower or building, as documented by a qualified
professional engineer, and the existing or approved tower cannot be reinforced
or modified to accommodate planned equipment at a reasonable cost;
         (b)   The planned equipment would cause interference with other
existing or planned equipment at the tower or building as documented by a
qualified professional radio frequency (RF) engineer, and the interference
cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost;
         (c)   No existing or approved towers or commercial/industrial
buildings within a 1½-mile radius meet the radio frequency (RF) design
criteria;
         (d)   Existing or approved towers and commercial/industrial buildings
within a 1½-mile radius cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height
necessary to function reasonably as documented by a qualified professional
radio frequency (RF) engineer;
         (e)   The applicant must demonstrate that a good faith effort to co-
locate on existing towers and structures within a 1½-mile radius was made, but
an agreement could not be reached.
      (4)   An agreement stating that the site will be designed for not less
than three tenants with applicant and property owner commitment to co-location,
whereby, any prohibition of compatible additional tenants on a tower will be
considered a violation of the permit. The agreement shall also include a
statement that an unused or obsolete tower shall be removed, within six months
of cessation of use, by the property owner and/or applicant. The agreement
shall be signed by the applicant and the property owner and shall be attached
to and become a part of the permit.
      (5)   An escrow account, based on the county fee schedule, shall be
established from applicants for requests including, but not limited to,
locations within 1½ miles of an adjacent jurisdiction or existing structure
which is over 100 feet in height. The applicant shall be required to increase
the escrow if the county’s cost exceeds the initial required amount. The escrow
shall be established to reimburse the county for technical services typically
provided by a qualified communications engineer, selected by the county, to
verify compliance with the co-location and documentation requirements stated
above.
   (D)   Standards for the issuance and continuation of a conditional use
permit.
      (1)   An agreement providing for co-location and prompt removal of unused
and/or obsolete towers shall be attached and become part of the permit.
      (2)   The tower and all associated structures (wireless communication
facility), excluding guy wires and anchors, must have a 50-foot minimum setback
from all property lines. Towers shall not be located closer than the tower
height plus 10 feet from any structure, located on adjacent properties,
existing at the time of application.
      (3)   Tower and antenna plans shall be signed by a qualified and licensed
professional engineer and constructed to conform to the approved plans, the
latest structural standards of the Uniform Building Code, provisions of the
Electronic Industries Association and all other applicable reviewing agencies.
      (4)   Permittee must obtain FAA approval and/or provide documentation
that FAA approval is not needed.
      (5)   Permittee must obtain FCC licensure and approval as required for
various communications applications. Permittee shall follow FCC regulations
regarding the correction and/or prevention of any radio frequency interference
problems.
      (6)   All towers shall be reasonably protected against unauthorized
climbing. The bottom of the tower (measured from ground level to 12 feet above
ground level) shall be designed in a manner to preclude unauthorized climbing
and shall be enclosed with a minimum of a 6-foot high fence or barrier with a
locked gate.
      (7)   Wireless communications facilities shall utilize building
materials, colors, textures, screening and landscaping that effectively blend
within the surrounding environment to the greatest extent possible.
      (8)   No advertising or identification of any kind intended to be visible
from the ground or other structures is permitted, except applicable warning and
equipment information signage required by the manufacturer or by federal,
state, or local authorities.
      (9)   Wireless communications facilities shall not be illuminated by
artificial means, except for camouflage purposes (such as, designed as a
lighted tower, for a parking lot, or a ball field), security purposes or when
illumination is specifically required by the Federal Aviation Administration or
other authority.
      (10)   No part of any antenna or tower, nor any lines, cable, equipment,
wires, or braces shall at any time extend across or over any part of the right-
of-way, public street, highway, or sidewalk, without approval by the county
through the building permit approval process.
      (11)   Permittee must submit proof of liability and worker’s compensation
insurance. All communication towers, their antennas, and associated equipment
shall be adequately insured for injury or property damage caused by structural
failure of the tower or associated equipment.
      (12)   The permit will be subject to administrative review.
      (13)   Towers and antennas existing or approved as of September 9, 1997.
Structures allowed under a previous ordinance or conditional use permit may
continue to be used as they were built provided they are in compliance with the
conditions of the permit.
   (E)   Location or co-location of antennas and associated equipment. Location
or co-location of antennas and associated equipment on any existing structure
is permitted upon the issuance of a building permit (if required) provided the
placement of the antennas and appurtenances are in compliance with any federal,
state and county regulations.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.057 ENERGY PRODUCTION.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   Pre-application meeting required. A pre-application meeting with
county land management staff is required prior to application for a land
development permit that requires a public hearing. The following items shall be
reviewed and approved prior to the submittal of an application for a large
energy production system:
         (a)   Existing conditions site plan;
         (b)   Proposed conditions site plan;
         (c)   Site plan showing the proposed operational area, access road(s),
any accessory uses, and their dimensions in relation to the agricultural
production land and/or environmentally sensitive land, as defined by this
chapter, on the subject parcel;
         (d)   Written approval for road access from the applicable road
authority (township, county, state, etc.);
         (e)   Proposed grading plan;
         (f)   Location for all permanent and temporary stormwater control
measures, when
applicable;
         (g)   Wetland delineation report, if required;
         (h)   Preliminary vegetation and seeding plan for all perennial
vegetation; and
         (i)   Preliminary decommissioning plan.
      (2)   No energy production system requiring a CUP is permitted on land
enrolled in the Metropolitan Agricultural Preserve Program (M.S. Chapter 473H).
      (3)   The conversion of existing wooded areas for the placement of an
energy production system is prohibited.
      (4)   No more than 75% of the operational area for any large energy
production system shall be existing agricultural production land and/or
environmentally sensitive areas. This standard applies to the operational area,
all access roads, and any accessory uses/structures.
      (5)   Operational area(s) of any large energy production system,
including fencing, the base of a WECS, solar arrays, and any accessory uses
shall be located a minimum of one mile from the operational area(s) of any
other permitted large energy production system or wireless communication tower
in the county.
      (6)   All energy production systems and accessory equipment shall be in
compliance with any applicable local, state and federal regulatory standards,
including the State of Minnesota Uniform Building Code, as amended; and the
Minnesota State Electric Code, as amended.
      (7)   All energy production systems and accessory equipment shall be in
compliance with Carver County Water Management Organization,
Chapter 153.
      (8)   Application. An application to the county for a conditional use
permit under this section is not complete unless it contains the following:
         (a)   Site plan of existing conditions;
         (b)   Site plan of proposed conditions;
         (c)   1.   Site plan showing the proposed operational area, access
road(s), any accessory uses, and their dimensions, in relation to the
agricultural production land and/or environmentally sensitive land, as defined
by this chapter, on the subject parcel.
            2.   Site plan shall include area calculations for agricultural
production land and/or environmentally sensitive land, shown as a percentage of
the overall project area.
         (d)   Manufacturer’s specifications and recommended installation
methods for all major equipment;
         (e)   A description of the method of connecting the array to a
building or substation;
         (f)   A copy of the interconnection agreement with the local electric
utility or a written explanation outlining why an interconnection agreement is
not necessary; and
         (g)   A decommissioning plan to ensure that facilities are properly
removed after their useful life. Decommissioning of an energy production system
must occur within 180 days in the event the system is not in use for 12
consecutive months. All items associated with the discontinued use shall be
defined as solid waste, in accordance with
Chapter 50 of the Carver County Code of Ordinances. The decommissioning plan
shall include a bond, letter of credit, or the establishment of an escrow
account in the name of the landowner, to ensure proper decommissioning. Any
cost incurred by the county for the decommissioning of a discontinued system,
as a result of an inadequate financial surety, shall be assessed back to the
landowner under M.S. § 375.18, subd. 14, as amended. The plan shall consist of
the following:
            1.   The removal of all structures and foundations.
            2.   The removal of all power poles, cables/wiring and electrical
devices associated with the project.
            3.   The removal of all access roads and parking areas.
            4.   The disposal of all power poles, cable/wiring, electrical
devices, structures and/or foundations shall meet the provisions of the Carver
County Solid Waste Ordinance or successor ordinance.
            5.   The permanent restoration of the site including the following:
               i.   Site cleanup followed by general surface grading and, if
necessary, restoration or surface drainage swales, ditches, and tile drains (if
present).
               ii.   Any excavation and/or trenching caused by the removal of
building or equipment foundations, rack supports, and underground electrical
cables will be backfilled with the appropriate material and leveled to match
the ground surface.
               iii.   The roads and parking areas will be removed completely,
filled with suitable sub-grade material, and leveled.
            6.   Further restoration of soil and vegetation of the site as
necessary to minimize erosion.
   (B)   Wind energy conversion system (WECS).
      (1)   General provisions.
         (a)   Setbacks. All WECS and accessory structures shall meet the
setback requirements for the zoning district in which the project is located
and be setback at least 1.1 times the total height of the wind turbine from
neighboring property lines and right-of-way.
         (b)   Color and finish. All towers shall be white, grey or another
non-obtrusive color. Blades may be black in order to facilitate deicing.
Finishes shall be matte or non-reflective.
         (c)   Lighting. Lighting, including lighting intensity and frequency
of strobe, shall adhere to but not exceed requirements established by Federal
Aviation Administration permits and regulations. Red strobe lights are
preferred for night-time illumination to reduce impacts on migrating birds. Red
pulsating incandescent lights should be avoided.
         (d)   Noise. All WECS shall comply with Minn. Rules Chapter 7030, as
amended, governing noise.
         (e)   Clearance. Rotor blades or airfoils must maintain at least 12
feet of clearance between their lowest point and the ground.
         (f)   Unauthorized climbing. The WECS shall be guarded against
unauthorized climbing. The first 12 feet of the tower shall be unclimbable by
design or enclosed by a six foot high, unclimbable fence with a secured access.
         (g)   Application. An application to the county for a conditional use
permit under this section is not complete unless it contains the following:
            1.   The number of wind turbines to be installed.
            2.   FAA permit application.
            3.   A USGS topographical map, or map with similar data, of the
property and surrounding area, including any other WECS within ten rotor
diameters of the proposed WECS.
            4.   Location of all known communications towers within two miles
of the proposed WECS.
            5.   Description of potential impacts on nearby WECS and wind
resources on adjacent properties.
            6.   Engineering certification. For all large WECS, the
manufacture’s engineer or another qualified engineer shall certify that the
turbine, foundation and tower design of the WECS is within accepted
professional standards, given local soil and climate conditions.
      (2)   Activities.
         (a)   Small WECS.
            1.   Permitted use. Small WECS shall be permitted in all districts
with the issuance of a building permit.
            2.   Height. The maximum height for small WECS is 100 feet above
ground level (AGL), including appurtenances. The height of a tower shall be
measured from the base of the structure to the furthest tip of the rotor blade.
            3.   Setbacks. Small WECS shall be located at least the height of
the structure plus ten feet from any lot line.
            4.   Capacity. Total name plate generating capacity must be less
than 40 kW.
         (b)   Large WECS.
            1.   Conditional use. Large WECS shall be no more than one megawatt
(MW) in total name plate generating capacity and shall be permitted with the
issuance of a CUP pursuant to §
152.052.
            2.   Height regulations. For a structure of 200 feet or more in
height, the procedures of Minn. Rules Parts 8800.0100 through 8800.1200, as
they may be amended from time to time, shall be observed.
            3.   Separation distance. For WECS the separation distance from on-
site dwellings shall be 1.1 times the total height of the wind turbine and 750
feet from dwellings on adjacent properties.
   (C)   Solar energy system (SES).
      (1)   General provisions.
         (a)   Setbacks. SES shall meet the structure setback requirements.
         (b)   Approved solar components. Electric solar system components
shall have an Underwriters Laboratory (UL) listing.
         (c)   Utility notification. No grid-intertie photovoltaic system shall
be installed until evidence has been given to the Department that the owner has
notified the utility company of the customer’s intent to install an
interconnected customer owned generator. Off-grid systems are exempt from this
requirement.
         (d)   Application. An application to the county for a conditional use
permit under this section is not complete unless it contains the following
additional information:
            1.   The number of panels to be installed;
            2.   A landscaping/screening plan, including a narrative describing
the overarching landscape architecture elements and how the design and
placement of plant types and materials will complement the form and function of
the developed site and blend into the surrounding environment, shall be
prepared by a licensed landscape architect for submittal with the application.
Applicants may also be asked to submit renderings of the landscape plan at year
one, year three and year five.
      (2)   Activities.
         (a)   Small SES.
            1.   Permitted use. Small SES shall be permitted on parcels with an
existing single- family home.
            2.   Height. Building- or roof-mounted SES shall not exceed 35
feet. Ground- or pole- mounted SES shall not exceed 20 feet in height when
orientated at maximum tilt.
            3.   Maximum coverage.
               a.   For detached garages or accessory structures. In addition
to meeting all regulations required by the most current MN State Building Code
and
Chapter 150 of this code, roof- or building-mounted solar systems, excluding
building-integrated systems, shall not cover more than 80% of the south-facing
or flat roof upon which the panels are mounted.
               b.   For attached garages or residential structures. Shall meet
all requirements of the most current MN State Building Code and
Chapter 150 of this code.
         (b)   Large SES.
            1.   Conditional use. Large SES shall be no more than one megawatt
(MW) alternating current (AC) rated capacity and shall be permitted with the
issuance of a CUP pursuant to §
152.052.
            2.   Standards.
               i.   Foundations. The manufacturer’s engineer or another
qualified engineer shall certify that the foundation and design of the solar
panels is within accepted professional standards, given local soil and climate
conditions.
               ii.   Power and communication lines. Power and communication
lines running between banks of solar panels and to electric substations or
interconnections with buildings shall be buried underground. Exceptions may be
granted by the Department in instances where shallow bedrock, water courses, or
other elements of the natural landscape interfere with the ability to bury
lines.
               iii.   Foundation posts shall be installed using noise
mitigating equipment such as a vibrating post driver or any other noise
reduction method as may be stipulated by the CUP.
               iv.   Operational areas(s), including fencing and solar array,
shall be located a minimum of 50 feet from adjacent property lines and/or
public rights-of-way and 500 feet from neighboring residences not on the same
parcel of property existing at the time of application for the permit.
               v.   Vegetation maintenance required. All approved large SES
shall be required to complete maintenance of all screening and vegetative cover
no less than four times per calendar year for the duration of the permit.
Written documentation of completed maintenance shall be provided to the county
on a quarterly basis.
               vi.   Screening. Screening consisting of a berm (2:1 maximum
slope with supplemental plant materials including trees, shrubs, and
groundcovers) and/or a continuous evergreen vegetative buffer shall be provided
and maintained at all times around the perimeter of the fencing that faces: (1)
public road right-of-way within 500 feet of the operational area; (2) an
existing residence or farmstead within 750 feet of the operational area not on
the subject parcel; or (3) residentially zoned or platted property within 750
feet of the operational area. When required, these distances shall be reviewed
and possibly amended by the Planning Commission or County Board of
Commissioners.
               vii.    Financial surety shall be provided to insure the
establishment and maintenance of any required screening pursuant to the Carver
County Fee Schedule. Financial surety shall be held for at least two
consecutive growing seasons or until such time where staff has deemed the
screening vegetation to be established.
               viii.   Beneficial habitat. The project site design shall
include the installation and establishment of ground cover meeting the
beneficial habitat standards consistent with M.S. § 216B.1642, or successor
statutes and guidance as set by the Minnesota Board of Water and Soil
Resources. Beneficial habitat standards shall be maintained on the site for the
duration of operation, until the site is decommissioned.
               ix.   Annual inspection required.
   (D)   Biomass.
      (1)   General provisions. All components of biomass systems shall meet
the structure setback requirements.
      (2)   Permitted use. Biomass systems shall be permitted on parcels with
an existing single-family home or permitted farming operation, provided
installation is solely used by/for home/farmstead.
      (3)   Biomass systems not used in conjunction with and exclusively for an
existing single-family home or farming operation are prohibited.
(Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 80-2015, passed 6-16-15; Am. Ord. 84-
2017, passed 7-11-17; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21) Penalty, see §
152.999
“A” AGRICULTURE DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 152.070 PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES.
   (A)   Generally. The permitted principal uses in the “A” District are
agriculture, including animal agriculture, on parcels of 20 acres or more and
single-family residences provided a building eligibility is available pursuant
to this chapter. Both uses shall be conducted only in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Agriculture. As a permitted use, agriculture often includes such
activities as the intense use of farm equipment and machinery; plowing during
dry and windy conditions; the raising of livestock and fowl; the use of soil
amendments, including manure, herbicides, and pesticides; and storage of
manure. These activities may occur during any 24-hour period. Thus, owners or
renters of property, that abut agricultural operations may be subject to
discomforts such as odors, dirt, dust, insects, and noise, arising from the
operations. While these activities may be considered nuisances in a more urban
setting, they are common in an agricultural community and vital to the
sustenance of an agricultural economy. Pursuant to M.S. § 561.19, as it may be
amended from time to time, agricultural activities shall not be considered a
public nuisance, provided the activities do not violate any state statute,
rule, or other law.
   (C)   Single-family residence. The residence shall be maintained as one
contiguous living space served by one set of utilities. Guest quarters and
extended family accommodations are permitted provided they are integrated into
the principal structure. A separate rental unit, an additional address, dual
utility meters or distinctly segregated entrances shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 47 03-1, passed 5-5-03; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.071 ANIMAL AGRICULTURE.
   (A)   Animal agriculture shall be conducted in accordance with the county
feedlot regulations.
   (B)   New feedlots shall not be located within a Shoreland District.
Existing feedlots shall be operated in a Shoreland District under a conditional
use permit.
   (C)   New feedlots shall not be located within a Floodplain District.
   (D)   Existing feedlots in a Shoreland District shall not be expanded above
999 animal units. Existing feedlots in a Floodplain District shall not be
expanded.
   (E)   In cases where the feedlot regulations require a conditional use
permit, the permit shall be considered under the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   The establishment of a new feedlot of 50 or more animal units on a
parcel of less than 40 acres shall require the issuance of a conditional use
permit pursuant to this chapter.
   (G)   The animal unit density of a feedlot shall be limited only by the
provisions of the feedlot permit, the county feedlot management regulations, or
other provisions of this section. A feedlot operated under or as part of a
conditional use permit may be further regulated by the conditions of the permit
in addition to the provisions of the feedlot permit.
   (H)   Animal density regulations. These regulations apply to lots of less
than 20 acres unless otherwise regulated by this chapter or the county feedlot
management regulations. A manure-handling plan may be required when there are
any domestic animals other than customary household pets.
      (1)   On lots of less than 1.5 acres, only dogs, cats, and other animals
customarily kept as pets, are permitted. Ten or fewer fowl shall be permitted
and not considered livestock.
      (2)   On parcels of at least 1.5 acres, but less than 2.4 acres, one
animal unit is permitted.
      (3)   On parcels of 2.4 to 5 acres, one animal unit per acre is
permitted, with the number of acres rounded up to the nearest whole number.
      (4)   On lots of greater than 5 acres and less than 20 acres, the number
of animal units is limited only by the provisions of Chapter 54, the provisions
of this chapter, and any other applicable county ordinances.
      (5)   Dogs, cats and other animals customarily kept as pets are not
subject to the animal density regulations.
      (6)   On any parcel where there are animals and a feedlot certificate is
not required, manure must also be handled in an environmentally sound and
nuisance free manner pursuant to Minn. Rules Chapter 7020, and all applicable
regulations listed in
Chapter 54 of the County’s Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21; Am. Ord. 108-2024, passed 11-19-24)
§ 152.072 BUILDING ELIGIBILITIES.
   All determinations of building eligibilities under this section shall be
based on the ownership and configuration of the parcel as of record in the
Office of the County Recorder/Registrar of Deeds on July 1, 1974.
   (A)   4/40 limitation. Building eligibilities shall not be located so as to
violate Policy 18C of the comprehensive plan.
   (B)   One per 40/1 per ¼¼ section building eligibilities. A parcel
consisting of 40 acres or more or a complete quarter-quarter section shall have
one potential building eligibility; each additional 40 acres or complete
quarter-quarter section shall provide an additional potential building
eligibility.
   (C)   Lot of record building eligibilities. A lot of record not having
building eligibility pursuant to the 1 per 40 provision above shall have one
potential building eligibility if it meets one of the following standards for
eligibility and is not subject to the limitations listed below:
      (1)   The lot of record has a minimum of 33 feet of frontage on a public
road, can meet all required setbacks in this chapter and can accommodate an
SSTS including a primary and alternate SSTS sites; or
      (2)   There is a deeded easement for roadway purposes from a public road
to the lot of record and the deeded easement was conveyed prior to July 1, 1974
and the lot of record is a minimum of 1½ acres and contains a minimum of 1 acre
that meets the definition of building site.
   (D)   Limitations on lots of record. Parcels purchased at different times
but owned and occupied by the same owner on July 1, 1974 and subsequently used,
occupied and taxed as a single lot shall be considered to be a single lot of
record. A lot of record occupied by another principal use other than
agriculture shall not have a building eligibility until the time as the other
principal use is permanently removed from the parcel provided the lot meets the
minimum requirements for a lot of record building eligibility. Lots of record
resulting from the conversion of public or private rights-of-way or public
lands from public use to private use shall have no residential building
eligibility under these provisions.
   (E)   Verification of building eligibilities. A potential building
eligibility shall be verified by the Department only if a residence utilizing
the eligibility can meet all requirements of this chapter,
Chapter 151 or
Chapter 52 of this code of ordinances, and any other ordinances, rules or
statutes. Verification shall be valid only as of the day of verification and
commitment to writing by the Department.
   (F)   Utilization of building eligibilities. A building eligibility shall be
considered to be utilized when a structure used as a residence is placed on the
parcel with the building eligibility or when a parcel is subdivided and the
sale includes a building eligibility. The removal or rendering uninhabitable of
a structure containing a residence makes available the building eligibility
used by that structure.
   (G)   Transfer of 1/40 building eligibilities. Building eligibilities may be
transferred from one parcel to another in accordance with the following rules:
      (1)   A building eligibility must be available for transfer;
      (2)   The transfer of a building eligibility shall occur only between
adjacent parcels, and between non-adjacent parcels, if that option is provided
for in the township chapter of the comprehensive plan. The sending and
receiving parcels shall be located within the same township and taxing district
(pursuant to each township’s policy chapter of the comprehensive plan). Sending
and receiving parcels may be located within different watershed taxing
districts if that option is provided for in the township’s chapter of the
comprehensive plan;
      (3)   The transfer of eligibility shall be accomplished by the approval
of an application for transfer by the Department. The application shall clearly
state the PID and legal description of the sending and receiving parcels; shall
bear the notarized signatures of the respective owners, and shall clearly state
the number of eligibilities both used and unused on each parcel before and
after the transfer. Subsequent to approval a copy of the approved application
or other documentation of the transfer shall be recorded by the Department in
the Office of the County Recorder against all affected parcels;
      (4)   Requests for the transfer of a one per 40 building eligibility in a
Transition Overlay District shall conform to §
152.162 of this chapter.
      (5)   Transfers that would result in a violation of the other provisions
of this chapter shall not be permitted;
      (6)   A parcel may only send or receive a building eligibility, not both;
      (7)   A building eligibility resulting from a conditional use permit for
an extra density option shall not be transferred;
      (8)   Building eligibilities may be transferred to or from a parcel only
once;
      (9)   Building eligibilities resulting from the removal of an existing
residential dwelling shall not be transferable until the demolition of the
residence has been completed and the applicable documentation for the removal
has been submitted to the Land Management Department.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.073 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   Within the agriculture district the following uses shall be permitted uses
and/or accessory uses [Note–Certification of zoning compliance is required for
any structure subject to the State Building Code and any structure or land use
specifically requiring an administrative permit, certificate of zoning
compliance, conditional use permit or any other type of certification by the
Department. The Department may provide certification of zoning compliance for
those structures and/or land uses that do not typically require certification
when requested by a landowner for his or her own property.]:
   (A)   Accessory storage structures including sheds, attached and detached
garages, detached porches, detached recreational buildings and detached hobby
structures: These structures shall be used only by the occupants of the
residence for personal storage, hobbies, recreation, entertainment, family
uses, private maintenance and repair activities, and for the keeping of animals
and appurtenant equipment and supplies, and as otherwise regulated by this
chapter. Guest quarters and/or additional dwelling units are strictly
prohibited. No products or services shall be offered for sale or pay or similar
remuneration except as permitted for a home occupation or as otherwise
regulated by this chapter. The following standards apply unless a conditional
use permit was issued prior to August 1, 2021 or a variance has been issued
allowing for additional square footage:
      (1)   Parcels of less than one and a half acres – a total square footage
of 1,250 square feet is permitted in a combination of a garage and accessory
structures. For detached accessory structures, the maximum sidewall height
shall be 12 feet and the total height from the average grade shall not exceed
17 feet. The roof and exterior of the structure shall be new material or
material with the appearance of new material; the material shall be painted,
stained, coated or otherwise finished.
      (2)   Parcels of one and a half acres or less than or equal to two acres–
a total square footage of 2,500 square feet is permitted in a combination of a
garage and accessory structures. For detached accessory structures, the maximum
sidewall height shall be 12 feet and the total height from the average grade
shall not exceed 17 feet. The roof and exterior of the structure shall be new
material or material with the appearance of new material; the material shall be
painted, stained, coated or otherwise finished.
      (3)   Parcels greater than two acres and less than or equal to five acres
– a total of 4,000 square feet of area is permitted in a combination of garage
and accessory structures.
      (4)   Parcels greater than five acres and less than or equal to ten acres
– a total of 5,000 square feet of area is permitted in a combination of a
garage and accessory structures.
      (5)   Parcels greater than ten acres – a total of 7,000 square feet of
area is permitted in a combination of a garage and accessory structures.
      (6)   Existing agricultural structures are not included in the area
calculations for the total square footage of accessory structures unless the
agricultural buildings (such as a machine shed) are suitable for use as garages
or residential accessory structures.
      (7)   The area calculation for an attached garage shall be made using the
outside dimensions (footprint or foundation) of the structure only. The area
calculation for a detached structure shall include the gross area for all
levels of the building.
      (8)   Each residential parcel in the county shall be given a personal
storage credit of 624 square feet to represent a standard (24 feet by 26 feet)
two-car garage. This credit shall not be included in the calculation for
personal storage.
      (9)   The footprint or foundation area of an attached garage shall not
exceed 125% of the footprint or foundation area of the related dwelling.
      (10)   Garages and accessory structures shall meet all locational
requirements and shall be constructed in accordance with the Minnesota State
Building Code.
   (B)   Agricultural structures. The structure must be related to the conduct
of commercial agricultural activities on parcels of 20 acres or more and must
be exempt from the State Building Code. Structures would typically fall into
one of the following classes: dairy barn, grain bin, silo, loafing shed,
corncrib, farm machinery building, hay barn, and crop handling and processing
structures. Applicants must demonstrate a significant agricultural activity
that directly correlates to the size and use of the proposed structure. The
structures may only be constructed upon the issuance of a certificate of zoning
compliance, by the Department or designated individual. Structures related to
animal agriculture must be approved by the Feedlot Administrator, or designated
individual, prior to the approval of the certificate of zoning compliance.
   (C)   Home occupations. It is the intent of this division to provide for the
operation of a business or profession within the home (including attached
garage) or with the home as a base of operations provided that the operation of
the home occupation is secondary to the use of the home, land, and any
accessory structures for residential purposes. The home occupation shall be
conducted principally by the members of the family occupying the dwelling. The
following are permitted home occupation uses: offices, professional services,
craft or trade, hair styling salon or barber, dog grooming, teaching, tutoring,
or counseling, repair and single truck owner operators. All home occupations
shall conform to the following standards:
      (1)   Conduct of the home occupation shall not require alterations to the
exterior of the residence or change the residential character thereof;
      (2)   No more than one employee other than members of the family living
on the premises may be employed on the premises or may report to the premises
in order to travel to work off the site;
      (3)   (Reserved);
      (4)   No outdoor display of goods;
      (5)   Except for goods or articles produced on the premises, no stock-in-
trade shall be sold on the premises;
      (6)   Any additional need for parking generated by the home occupation
shall be met by off-street parking. The parking area shall be limited to three
spaces and shall not be located within the actual or prescriptive right-of-way;
      (7)   All home occupations shall conform to county operational standards;
      (8)   Should the occupation be a professional service, including hair
salons and dog grooming, then clients shall not exceed three at any one time
and related incidental supplies (such as, shampoo) shall not be considered
stock-in-trade;
      (9)   Should the home occupation be repair, the items repaired shall be
of a size or nature that repair can occur within the home;
      (10)    No outside storage of business equipment or supplies is
permitted;
      (11)   An accessory structure pursuant to §
152.073(A) or a non-agricultural structure on parcels of 20 acres or more may
be utilized in conjunction with the home occupation only for the purpose of
holding equipment used off the site and for the storage of goods or articles
produced on the premises upon the issuance of a certificate of zoning
compliance by the Department, or as otherwise addressed in a conditional use
permit or variance;
      (12)   The home occupation shall not generate sewage of a volume, nature
or type that cannot be treated by a certified SSTS;
      (13)    No more than one vehicle used in the home occupation shall be
stored on the site. The vehicle may be stored outside provided an adequate off-
street location is available on-site.
   (D)   Decorative landscaping features provided the item is incidental to the
primary use of the property which requires grading, excavating and filling of
less than 400 cubic yards of material for one project.
   (E)   Signs and fences as regulated by the standards of this chapter and
Chapter 154 of this code.
   (F)   Swimming pools, provided the pool is:
      (1)   Not located under any power line;
      (2)   Located so that water from the back flushing of a filter or
draining the pool is naturally filtered before reaching a stream or lake;
      (3)   Located so that water from the back flushing of a filter or
draining the pool will not flow on neighboring property unless there is written
permission from the adjoining property owners and the agreement is recorded;
      (4)   Located so that the pool basin does not encroach upon a required
structure setback.
   (G)   Buildings, structures or uses temporarily located for purposes of
construction on the premises, excluding temporary dwelling units (such as,
travel trailers, motor homes), for a period of time not to exceed the time
normally necessary for construction.
   (H)   Roadside stands less than 200 square feet for the sale of
horticultural products grown on the premises or grown by the owner on a
seasonal basis, provided sufficient off-street parking is available. “Pick your
own” sites with an operational area accessed by the public two acres or less in
size shall be considered a roadside stand in this section, provided sufficient
off-street parking is available and approval from the road authority is
received.
   (I)   Residential equipment and functions unless specifically regulated by
this chapter or other ordinances.
   (J)   Day care and residential facilities: Day care facilities serving ten
or fewer persons and residential facilities serving six or fewer persons
provided the activity is licensed by the state or other appropriate regulating
agency if required and is located in a single-family home.
   (K)   Backyard composting of waste generated on-site, subject to structure
and other applicable setback requirements.
   (L)   (1)   Agricultural structures constructed at least 15 years or more
from the current date, may be utilized for the compensated seasonal storage of
boats, recreational vehicles, and classic or antique cars on a temporary basis.
The storage activity shall be clearly incidental to the principal use of the
property. In cases where, because of a subdivision of land occurring prior to
the adoption of this provision, an agricultural structure is located on a
parcel of land that does not have an existing principal use, a conditional use
permit may be applied for to provide for the storage activities provided for
herein. The storage of hulks, parts, wrecks or salvage shall not be permitted.
Boats or vehicles stored pursuant to this provision shall be complete and
functional or need only minor repair. Agricultural structures utilized pursuant
to this provision shall remain agricultural in nature. The structure shall not
be improved or modified, except for normal maintenance, so as to change its
agricultural nature; the structure shall not be increased in size.
      (2)   Owner of the property shall homestead and occupy the primary
residence.
   (M)   Land application of water treatment facility lime is a permitted
agricultural practice provided: the applicator notifies the affected townships,
Land Management, and Environmental Services Departments of the amount and
locations of the applications; haul routes are specified; a chemical analysis
and evidence of state review and approval of the lime for AG land application
is submitted; the lime is not stored on the site over the winter months.
   (N)   The use of land and structures for the production of movies, videos,
or similar purposes is permitted provided: the Department and affected
townships are notified prior to the beginning of the activity, the property
owner, whether public or private, gives permission in writing; if a public road
or right-of-way is used (parking included) the road authority gives written
permission, appropriate traffic control is provided for by the producer; all
other necessary permits are obtained.
   (O)   Yard and garage sales, not to exceed three per year, are permitted.
The continuous display and offering for sale of items acquired from others
specifically for resale is prohibited.
   (P)   Sale of vehicles and equipment. The offering for sale and display of
one vehicle or large item (such as, boat, camper, snowmobiles, trailer and
agricultural equipment) is permitted. No more than three vehicles or large
items may be offered for sale within a calendar year.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 70-2010,
passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 80-2015, passed 6-16-15; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-
20-21; Am. Ord. 108-2024, passed 11-19-24)
§ 152.074 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES REQUIRING AN ADMINISTRATIVE SPECIAL USE
PERMIT.
   The following are permitted accessory uses within the Agriculture District,
but require that certification of zoning compliance be issued by the Department
prior to initiation:
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   An appropriate official as designated by the township has been
notified for review and/or comment.
      (2)   The appropriate road authority has, or is willing to grant an
access permit or approval. In cases where access would be via a township road
the certificate of zoning compliance shall not be issued unless the affected
township approves the access.
      (3)   Plans and/or application are approved by the Department. Approval
by the Soil and Water Conservation District and/or an appropriate watershed
authority may be required by the Department to address ground/surface water
related factors. The Department can issue a permit only if the relevant
criteria listed are sufficiently satisfied. If non-compliance is determined,
the applicant shall be notified in writing of the reasons for denial.
      (4)   An application is submitted, in a format determined by the
Department that may include the following: a plan illustrating the location of
the project or event, and location of any structures, equipment, parking areas,
and/or areas for obtaining or depositing fill, proposed erosion/sediment
control, final grading, turf establishment and drainage design. The application
would typically include a letter and/or attachments giving an in depth
description of the proposed operation. The description should contain
documentation pertaining to the landowner’s consent, the number of employees
reporting to the site, plans for traffic control, parking and waste management.
The application should address parts of the operation that may have an adverse
impact on the environment, pose a risk to the public or that may impact
neighboring property owners and methods for mitigation of any adverse factors.
      (5)   The Department has the authority to require plans that are prepared
by a registered professional engineer, hired by the applicant, for any site
deemed to be environmentally sensitive. For the purposes of this section,
environmentally sensitive shall be: on or adjacent to 18% or greater slopes; on
or adjacent to waters of the state; floodplain; shoreland impact zones;
wellhead protection areas; and/or sites with a direct and immediate adverse
relationship to ground or surface water. The decision regarding professional
plans would be subsequent to consultation with SWCD or an appropriate watershed
authority.
      (6)   The Department may require a performance surety and/or a liability
insurance certificate for projects having a significant restoration component
or the potential for unusual public health, safety and welfare risks. For the
purposes of this section, restoration/risk shall be those activities that:
include a public improvement; are open and accessible to the general public;
and/or would involve land reclamation or disposal costs that could be incurred
by the public. The decision regarding sureties and insurance would be
subsequent to consultation with the County Risk Manager and/or a County
Attorney.
      (7)   The certificate shall clearly state the conditions, if any, upon
which it is issued. A copy of the certificate may be recorded against the
property if deemed necessary and appropriate by the Department.
      (8)   Any permit issued under this section is issued to the applicant for
the parcel named in the permit only and is not transferable to another parcel
of property or to another owner of the parcel for which the permit was issued.
The Department has the authority to revoke and enforce the permit.
   (B)   Activities requiring a special use permit.
      (1)   Agricultural structures that include an accessory structure and/or
personal storage component on parcels of 20 acres or more, provided the
agricultural structure, accessory structure and/or personal storage sizes and
uses meet the standards of this chapter and are constructed in accordance to
Minnesota State Building Code.
      (2)   Driveway construction and associated land preparation prior to
issuance of a residential building permit provided a building eligibility is
available. A survey of affected property lines shall be obtained, at the
property owner’s expense, and submitted to the Department when project is
within ten feet of a property line.
      (3)   Grading, excavating, or filling of 400 cubic yards or more but less
than 10,000 cubic yards for one project including, but not limited to
landscaping, excavation, site preparation for building and similar activity and
land improvements. An administrative permit is not required when a Carver
County Water Management Organization or Minnehaha Creek Watershed District
permit has been issued for the project. A survey of affected property lines
shall be obtained, at the property owner’s expense, and submitted to the
Department when project is within ten feet of a property line.
      (4)   Temporary uses on private property by a township, city, county, the
state or persons engaged in a construction project for a township, city,
county, or the state. If the project is not temporary in nature, then the
applicant must apply for a conditional or interim use permit.
      (5)   Occasional special events not to exceed three requests per year for
any parcel of land. Gatherings or events, for a maximum of two days in length,
which are open to or accessible by the general public. The County Board must
approve the issuance of the permit. For the purpose of this section, an event
permitted by the County Parks Department which takes place within a county park
is exempt from this provision.
      (6)   Contractors’ yards existing prior to January 1, 1989 are allowed to
remain but not expand, pursuant to a certificate of compliance provided the
applicant submits verifiable proof that his or her contractor’s yard was in
existence on the date.
      (7)   Spreading of petroleum contaminated soil. Soil that has been
determined by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency to be contaminated with
petroleum may be land spread upon issuance of permit pursuant to this
provision. The following additional criteria also apply to this provision:
         (a)   The MPCA has issued or has indicated that it will issue a permit
for the land spreading of contaminated soil on the proposed site;
         (b)   The affected township or townships approve the issuance of the
permit. Approval shall have occurred at a town board meeting. All property
owners within ½-mile of the proposed site shall be given notice that the matter
is to be considered at the town board meeting;
         (c)   The Carver County Environmental Services Department has reviewed
and approved the proposal. The Director of Environmental Services may impose
conditions upon the permit;
         (d)   The County Board of Commissioners must approve the application
prior to approval.
      (8)   Temporary home or emergency dwelling. An interim home or emergency
dwelling (such as, travel trailer) may be temporarily located on a parcel for
the purpose of housing the property owners while they are constructing a
permanent home provided:
         (a)   Temporary homes require the following:
            1.   The property owner must obtain building and SSTS permits for
construction of a permanent home;
            2.   A building permit must be obtained for the temporary home. The
temporary home is not required to be attached to a permanent foundation and may
be less than 20 feet in width, but it must meet the applicable requirements of
the building code;
            3.   An SSTS must be installed in accordance with
Chapter 52 of this code of ordinances prior to occupancy of the temporary home;
            4.   There must be a water supply meeting the state plumbing code
available for the temporary home;
            5.   The temporary home must be removed within two years of
issuance of the building permit for the permanent home;
            6.   The temporary home must be removed from the parcel within
thirty days of issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the permanent home.
         (b)   Emergency dwellings require the following:
            1.   A travel trailer, motor home or similar dwelling is needed in
an emergency situation (such as, fire, tornado) and when the length of time the
temporary home will be needed would typically be less than 180 days;
            2.   The landowner is in the process of obtaining building and SSTS
permits (if needed) for the construction or repair of the permanent home;
            3.   The property owner must obtain approval by the Department and
Building Official for occupancy of any temporary trailer;
            4.   The temporary manufactured home must be unoccupied within 30
days of issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the permanent home.
      (9)   Roadside stands less than 200 square feet for the sale of
horticultural products grown on the premises or grown by the owner of the
roadside stand, on a seasonal basis, that has a “pick your own” component with
an operational area accessed by the public greater than two acres in size,
provided sufficient off-street parking is available.
      (10)   Biomass systems on parcels with an existing single-family home
provided installation is solely used by/for home/farmstead.
      (11)   Cannabis event. A cannabis event shall be subject to the following
provisions:
         (a)   The event shall be for a maximum of two days in length that are
open to the public and shall not occur more than three times per year on the
same parcel of land.
         (b)   The County Board must approve the issuance of the permit.
         (c)   The event location shall not be within 1,000 feet of the nearest
property line of a parcel containing a school, church, day care facility,
residential treatment facility, or an attraction within a public park that is
regularly used by minors, including a playground or athletic field.
         (d)   The cannabis event organizer and all cannabis license holders
operating at the event shall adhere to state licensing standards and Office of
Cannabis Management rules.
         (e)   The cannabis event shall take place on a parcel of at least five
acres in size.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 70-2010,
passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 80-2015, passed 6-16-15; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-
20-21; Am. Ord. 108-2024, passed 11-19-24)
§ 152.075 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   All conditional uses shall comply with the applicable policies of the
Carver County Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   Land in the Agriculture District may be used for any of the following
purposes only upon the issuance of a conditional use permit. Land uses that
include more than one activity or CUP category may be consolidated under a
single request (application).
(Ord. 80-2015, passed 6-16-15; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.076 CONDITIONAL USES–AGRICULTURE; ANIMAL AGRICULTURE (ALLOWED IN AG
PRESERVE).
   (A)   Agriculture uses and structures on parcels of greater than 5 acres and
less than 20 acres; new feedlots on less than 40 acres – used principally for
raising poultry, livestock, fruit, vegetables, or other agricultural products
provided it is not used principally for residential purposes, or for the
establishment of new feedlots of 50 or more animal units on parcels under 40
acres. Criteria to be used in determining the principal use of the property
pursuant to this section:
      (1)   Necessity for a feedlot permit;
      (2)   Number of animal units;
      (3)   Use of the parcel for active farming of an additional 40 acres or
more;
      (4)   Demonstrated need for agricultural structures;
      (5)   Extent of the agricultural operation.
   (B)   Feedlots. Conditional use permits required by the Carver County
Feedlot Management Ordinance shall be considered under this provision.
Notwithstanding any other section of the zoning code, permits issued under the
provisions of this section shall be subject to review on a five-year basis. The
Board is not prohibited from specifying a more frequent review schedule as part
of the permit. The permit shall incorporate the provisions of the certificate
of compliance or feedlot permit. The conditions of these permits shall
constitute the minimum standards for the conditional use permit.
(Am. Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.077 CONDITIONAL USES–RESIDENTIAL RELATED.
   (A)   (1)   Residential accessory structures (allowed in AG preserve),
approved prior to August 1, 2021. Provides for accessory structures in excess
of the square footage permitted as a permitted accessory use.
      (2)   Standards for issuance. The property must contain an existing home
or the home would be constructed concurrently with the accessory structure;
which must be homesteaded; structure to be used principally by residents of the
home; and size must bear reasonable relationship to proposed use.
   (B)   Farm related permanent homes (allowed in AG preserve). Additional
permanent dwellings may be located on a parcel of at least 80 acres or two
quarter-quarter sections without subdividing a lot provided: the parcel has one
unused building eligibility available for each additional permanent farm
related home. The home must be occupied by someone employed on the farm at
least 20 hours per week. Any additional homes under this section shall be
occupied by someone working at least 40 hours per week in the farming
operation. The home must be located in such a manner that at such time as the
home ceases to be occupied by someone employed on the farm, a lot meeting all
county requirements containing the home can be subdivided from the parcel. At
such time as a permanent farm related home ceases to be occupied as provided
for by this section, the lot and home shall be subdivided within 180 days.
(Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.078 CONDITIONAL USES–ADDITIONAL DENSITY OPTIONS.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   Effect on 1/40 or lot of record building eligibility. Residential
building eligibilities pursuant to this provision are in addition to and shall
have no impact on residential building eligibilities available as a permitted
use. This provision shall not prohibit the transfer of 1/40 building
eligibilities pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Limitation on density. No more than four homes shall be located on
a quarter- quarter section (40 acre parcel) based on the configuration of the
parcel on July 1, 1974; homes subdivided from a parcel prior to July 1, 1974
shall not be considered in this calculation. In cases where the land does not
follow the quarter-quarter section configuration, the shape most nearly
approximating a quarter-quarter section containing 40 acres shall be used. The
conservation incentive, pursuant to division (E) of this section, shall allow
for flexibility in the four homes per 40 acre parcel determination.
      (3)   (a)   Limitation on use of density options. The issuance of a
conditional use permit pursuant to “wooded and lakeshore lots”, “high amenity”
or “conservation incentive” provisions is prohibited on any parcel that was of
record as of July 1, 1974 or any parcels derived therefrom, if at any time
since December 7, 1982 a conditional use permit was issued or a rezoning
occurred which provided residential density greater than that provided by the
basic one per 40 or one per quarter-quarter section provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   The additional density options shall not be combined with one
another to create a hybrid option, except for the conservation incentive
option, pursuant to the comprehensive plan.
      (4)   Compliance with township chapter of the comprehensive plan. The
additional density options provided in this section shall be available only in
townships which specifically provide for the option in their township chapter
of the comprehensive plan. Residential development pursuant to these options
shall be subject to and limited by any additional criteria or standards
contained in the township plan chapter. Applications for conditional use
permits pursuant to this section shall not be considered complete unless a
written statement is received from the affected township stating that the
application complies with the township comprehensive plan chapter.
      (5)   Road access requirement. All lots created under the additional
density options shall have frontage on: a public road existing at the time of
application; or the applicant must submit evidence that the township will
accept the road as a township road at some point after it is constructed in
accordance with township standards; or a road will be constructed that is
privately maintained but with the right-of-way dedicated to the township. All
roads shall be constructed to meet the standards in the comprehensive plan, the
subdivision regulations, the standards manual, and the water plan.
      (6)   Notice pertaining to agricultural uses. A notice or acknowledgment
will be required regarding the “odors, dirt dust, insects, noises, long hours
of operation and other factors associated with agriculture and feedlot
activities.”
   (B)   Wooded and lakeshore lots.
      (1)   A maximum of three residential building lots may be subdivided from
eligible wooded and/or lakeshore land. This provision may be exercised only
once for each parcel that was of record as of July 1, 1974. The parcel from
which the lots are to be subdivided was a parcel of record of 40 acres or more,
a complete quarter-quarter section or a complete government lot on July 1,
1974.
      (2)   Eligible land:
         (a)   Wooded land. A contiguous area of land which has trees that are
confirmed to be of a desirable species, healthy and mature, 20 years or older,
shade or evergreen trees with a minimum height of 10 feet. The distribution of
the trees is such that there are no areas greater than ¼-acre in size not
covered by canopy in the summer months; or
         (b)   The land contains lakeshore of a lake specifically listed in the
comprehensive plan as eligible for lots under this provision;
         (c)   All building lots created must meet the following general
criteria and the criteria specific to lot eligibility type (wooded or
lakeshore). Inability to meet one or more of these criteria shall negate the
eligibility for additional lots under this provision.
      (3)   General criteria:
         (a)   The comprehensive plan County Policy LU-18C, no more than four
homes per 40 (4 homes per ¼-¼) shall not be violated.
         (b)   The lots must be a minimum of 2½ acres and must meet all
applicable standards pursuant to this chapter.
         (c)   Each lot subdivided must contain a building site as defined by
this chapter. In cases where this standard cannot be met due to soil
conditions, the County Board may consider remedial actions designed by a
licensed professional engineer or architect. Any actions approved by the County
Board shall be binding on any and all future owners.
         (d)   Residential areas shall be located to provide the most effective
buffering from through roads, agricultural areas and feedlots within the
context of the other requirements and general criteria.
      (4)   Additional criteria for wooded lots:
         (a)   Each lot shall contain at least 2½ acres of land that meets the
criteria for eligible land. Wetlands or non-wooded steep slope (12% and over)
land may be added to the lot. These lands shall not be considered wooded and
shall not be counted as part of the 2½ acres of wooded land needed to qualify
as a wooded lot. There may be one area of up to one acre on each lot that does
not contain evenly distributed trees and is suitable for the placement of the
home, primary and alternate SSTS in accordance with
Chapter 52 of this code of ordinances, and a detached accessory structure.
         (b)   Except for a strip of land 30 feet or less in width used to
straighten boundaries or road alignment, the lots to be subdivided must not
contain land used for agricultural production. A road to serve the lots may be
constructed over agricultural production land. Agricultural production is row
crops and hay land that has been specifically planted and managed for the
production of hay. Agricultural production land includes land temporarily out
of production in accordance with a government program. Pasture land is not crop
production land.
      (5)   Additional criteria for lakeshore lots:
         (a)   The entire lot must abut lakeshore on the water body providing
eligibility and must not be separated from the lake by a road, railroad, or
other right-of-way.
         (b)   No lot created shall contain more than 2½ acres of long term
agricultural land. The road right-of-way setback as required by this chapter
shall not be included in the calculation.
   (C)   High amenity areas.
      (1)   A maximum of three residential building lots may be subdivided from
eligible high amenity land. This provision may be exercised only once for each
parcel that was of record as of July 1, 1974. The parcel from which the lots
are to be subdivided was a parcel of record of 40 acres or more, a complete
quarter-quarter section or a complete government lot on July 1, 1974.
      (2)   The maximum density in any area shall not exceed four single-family
dwelling units per 40 acres.
      (3)   Only land within the amenity area shall be used to calculate
additional density. In no case shall land currently enrolled in the
agricultural preserve program be included in a density calculation that exceeds
1 per 40 (1 per ¼-¼). Any residential lots that have been subdivided after July
1, 1974, and/or existing homes on the parcel shall be considered 1 per 40 acre
(or lot of record) eligibilities and shall be included in the density
calculations. Remnant pieces not included in the additional density
calculations shall have building eligibilities based on the applicable
regulations of the “A” District.
      (4)   Eligible land:
         (a)   Wooded land. A contiguous area of land which has trees that are
confirmed to be of a desirable species, healthy and mature, 20 years or older,
shade or evergreen trees with a minimum height of ten feet. The distribution of
the trees is such that there are no areas greater than ¼-acre in size not
covered by canopy in the summer months; or
         (b)   Wooded pasture. A contiguous area of land which has trees that
are confirmed to be of a desirable species, healthy and mature, 20 years or
older, shade or evergreen trees with a minimum height of ten feet. The
distribution of the trees is such that at least 50% of the total amenity area
is covered by canopy in the summer months; or
         (c)   Wooded land with native vegetation.
            1.   A contiguous area of land which has trees that are confirmed
to be of a desirable species, healthy and mature, 20 years or older, shade or
evergreen trees with a minimum height of ten feet. The distribution of the
trees is such that at least 25% of the total amenity area is covered by canopy
in the summer months. In addition to the required tree coverage, the remainder
of these lots shall be fully vegetated by native vegetation. For this
provision, native vegetation shall be established pursuant to the recommended
guidelines of the Minnesota Board of Water and Soil Resources.
            2.   For all lots created using this provision, a protective
easement proposal covering 50% of the amenity shall be submitted for review to
the Department, WMO, SWCD, affected township and any other agency deemed
appropriate. The proposal shall identify the qualified conservation easement
holder, easement terms and restrictions, any land management, monitoring and
enforcement responsibilities, and maintenance plans which shall include, but
are not limited to: a description (inventory) of baseline conditions, a
schedule of maintenance activities, identification of roles and
responsibilities as well as funding sources. The schedule of maintenance
activities shall be appropriate to sustaining the type and quality of the plant
community existing at the time of dedication or pertaining to the establishment
and maintenance of the target plant community determined by the restoration
assessment.
         (d)   Lakeshore lots. Areas immediately adjacent to lakes as
designated in the comprehensive plan or as further specified in a township’s
chapter. Quarter-quarter sections adjacent to a lake shall be considered
amenity areas with potential for additional residential development; or
         (e)   Bluff areas (buildable areas on top of bluffs) closely
associated with the Minnesota River, Bevens/Silver Creek, Chaska Creek, Carver
Creek. Townships that have land that may be eligible under this provision
should further define bluff areas in their chapter of this plan.
      (5)   General criteria:
         (a)   Eligible land considered wooded, wooded pasture, and areas
consisting of a mixture of wooded land and native grasses shall not be in
agricultural production for the past 20 years, and shall include soils suitable
for an SSTS (land enrolled in a state or federal program is in agricultural
production).
         (b)   The comprehensive plan policy allowing for no more than four
homes per 40 (4 homes per ¼-¼) shall not be violated.
         (c)   All building lots created must meet the general criteria and the
criteria specific to the lot eligibility type (wooded and/or lakeshore).
Inability to meet one or more of those criteria shall negate the eligibility
for additional lots under this provision.
         (d)   The high amenity building sites are to be considered residential
lots, not agricultural parcels. The minimum lot size shall be two and one-half
acres and able to accommodate a minimum one-acre building site having at least
two SSTS (primary and alternate), a house, garage and detached storage
structure, while maintaining all required setbacks. Although each lot shall
contain at least two and one-half acres of land that meets the criteria for
eligible land, wetlands and/or non-wooded steep slope (12% and over) land may
be added to individual lots as determined to be necessary during the permitting
process. These lands shall not be counted as part of the two and one-half acres
needed to qualify as a high amenity lot.
         (e)   Building sites shall be clustered in the amenity area as much as
possible.
         (f)   There may be no more than two acres of long term agricultural
crop production land included in any residential lot. The road right-of-way
setback as required by this chapter shall not be included in the calculation
nor shall any required setbacks be included in this calculation.
         (g)   The maximum amount of long-term agricultural land shall be
preserved for continued agricultural use. The long-term agricultural land shall
be retained in a large parcel(s) suitable for agricultural purposes. The long-
term agricultural land shall not be split up and attached to each residential
sized parcel unless the amount of agricultural land is so small that it is not
reasonably farmable. One of the residential sites and the agricultural land may
be combined to form a 20+ acre farm.
         (h)   All lots that contain a building eligibility shall include a
building site as defined by this chapter. No remnant parcels of less than 20
acres shall be created as a stand alone parcel.
         (i)   High amenity areas shall be located to provide the most
effective buffering from through roads, agricultural areas and feedlots within
the context of the other requirements and general criteria.
         (j)   A road to serve the lots may be constructed over production land
as defined by this chapter.
      (6)   Minimum conditions of high amenity lots:
         (a)   The keeping of animals, with the exception of dogs, cats,
similar animals kept as household pets, and fewer than ten fowl, is prohibited
on any residential lot.
         (b)   All conditional use permit activities shall be prohibited on any
residential lot. Agricultural parcels and/or lots shall be subject to the “A”
District regulations.
         (c)   A statement that the area is rural and that commercial
agriculture and other rural land use activities will likely be occurring in the
area. A notice should be provided regarding the odors, dirt, dust, insects,
noises, long hours of operation and other factors associated with agriculture
and feedlot activities. Complaints relating to these activities shall be
considered unwarranted so long as the activities are being conducted in
accordance with existing standards.
         (d)   The protection of environmentally sensitive land shall be
addressed in the conditions. Protections can include, but are not limited to,
restrictions on clear cutting or vegetation removal; erosion control plan to
control erosion during and after building construction; designation of specific
building sites or areas with buildings prohibited; requiring certain management
practices.
   (D)   Conservation incentive.
      (1)   This section provides an opportunity for landowners to protect,
preserve, enhance, or restore natural resources on their property in exchange
for one or more additional building eligibilities. Density shall be a maximum
of four homes per 40 acre parcel as defined by the CUP with the intent to
provide flexibility with the configuration of the quarter-quarter or 40 acres.
However, it is not the intent of this provision alone, or in combination with
the other density options, to provide for the development of the land generally
at a 4/40 density; nor is it the intent of this provision to generate
exclusively large lot subdivisions, such as dividing a 40 acre parcel into
four, ten-acre lots.
      (2)   Eligible land:
         (a)   A minimum of 30 acres that can support the proposed conservation
activity, AG land preservation and clustering of homes as defined by the CUP:
         (b)   Land that has received another permanent incentive is not
eligible for the conservation incentive. Land that is receiving a temporary
incentive is not eligible until the temporary incentive period has ended; and
         (c)   The conservation incentive is available only in townships that
provide for it in their chapter of the comprehensive plan.
      (3)   General criteria:
         (a)   The minimum lot size shall be 1½ acres.
         (b)   Lots should either be small and clustered or 20 plus acres to
support a farming activity.
         (c)   Conservation activity shall generally require ten acres for a
building eligibility and may consist of a combination of one or more of the
following: permanent preservation, restoration, or enhancement of: wetlands,
forest or woodlands, prairie, bluffs, or shoreline. In determining the number
of additional building eligibility(s) to be granted, the proposed conservation
activity shall be evaluated using a guide developed by the Department which may
include, but is not limited to, the following criteria: natural resource
assessment priority, size of easement/area preserved, public use value, value
of restoration proposed by landowner, restoration plan submitted by landowner,
adjacent to other protected land, adjacent to protected water or wetland,
adjacent to impaired water, and unique characteristics. The guide will be
provided at the time of application or upon request.
         (d)   Preference will be given to subdivision plats that include the
natural area to be protected with a conservation easement as a separate platted
outlot, rather than covering portions of individual lots.
         (e)   If at all possible, long term agricultural land should remain in
large, farmable parcels.
      (4)   Additional criteria:
         (a)   A conservation easement proposal shall be submitted for review
to the Department, SWCD, affected township and any other agency deemed
appropriate. The proposal shall identify the qualified conservation easement
holder, easement terms and restrictions, any land management, monitoring and
enforcement responsibilities, and maintenance plans which shall include, but
are not limited to: a description (inventory) of baseline conditions, a
schedule of maintenance activities, identification of roles and
responsibilities as well as funding sources. The schedule of maintenance
activities shall be appropriate to sustaining the type and quality of the plant
community existing at the time of dedication or pertaining to the establishment
and maintenance of the target plant community determined by the restoration
assessment.
         (b)   Conservation easement areas must be shown on the preliminary
plat. Easement documents must be recorded simultaneously with the final plat.
   (E)   One building eligibility incentive.
      (1)   This section provides for flexibility under the conservation
incentive, wooded and lakeshore, or high amenity area provisions of this
chapter, to those landowners who are willing to pursue only one building
eligibility as a conditional use. A maximum of one building eligibility may be
granted under this provision.
      (2)   Building eligibility flexible standard. A building eligibility may
be assigned to the qualifying wooded, lakeshore or amenity area, without a
subdivision requirement or it may be subdivided as a single lot, primarily for
mortgage purposes. The configuration and specific standards for the lot shall
be evaluated and stipulated during the conditional use permit process. The
criteria for issuance are as follows:
         (a)   The qualifying land could support two or more building site
eligibilities. The applicant must demonstrate that he or she is proposing to
eliminate at least one potential building site.
         (b)   There would not be a need to construct a new township road.
         (c)   The building site may be utilized without subdividing the
subject property, or via a single lot split principally for mortgage purposes.
         (d)   The applicant submits an acceptable plan for preserving long-
term agricultural land. An acceptable plan may include, but would not be
limited to, the agricultural preserves covenant and/or a conservation easement.
(Am. Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord.
97-2021, passed 7-20-21; Am. Ord. 108-2024, passed 11-19-24)
§ 152.079 CONDITIONAL/INTERIM USES–ACTIVITIES CENTERED AROUND A HOME OR A HOME/
FARM COMBINATION.
   (A)   Minimum criteria for issuance of permit:
      (1)   Minimum five acre lot size; unless another size is specified under
a particular provision;
      (2)   Sewage can be managed in accordance with
Chapter 52 of this code of ordinances;
      (3)   Land shall not be enrolled in the AG preserve program;
      (4)   The activity shall be located on a hard surfaced (blacktop or
concrete) road unless written approval for location on a township road is given
by the affected township or townships. The town board may condition its
approval of access to a gravel road on agreements with the applicant regarding
dust control, maintenance, or similar issues. The terms of the agreement shall
be such that the agreement is in force so long as the permit is in effect;
      (5)   There is a single-family home on the parcel occupied as a homestead
by an owner of the activity; or a single-family home will be constructed or
homesteaded before the CUP for the activity is issued;
      (6)   The scale and operational characteristics of the proposed activity
shall be such that it can be operated on the proposed site and within the
current levels of support services and infrastructure. Activities that will
have service needs–traffic capacity or roads, waste disposal or management,
fire or police protection, sewage disposal–that will exceed those available in
the area should locate in municipalities where the services are available.
   (B)   Minimum conditions:
      (1)   Permit shall be subject to administrative review or compliance
review as set by the permit. A change in ownership, operations or operator
shall be cause for the permit to be reviewed to determine whether an
application for an amendment or similar consideration is necessary.
      (2)   The activity must operate in conformance with the approved site
plan and operational plan and other provisions of this chapter. The operational
plan and site plan shall become part of the permit.
      (3)   Outside storage is prohibited unless the storage area is adequately
screened from nearby roads and residences.
      (4)   The operational plan and site plan shall become part of the permit.
      (5)   The applicant must submit a copy of workers’ compensation insurance
or sign an affidavit stating that he or she will not have any employees.
      (6)   All buildings utilized by the operation must meet the State
Building Code.
   (C)   Activities allowed as a conditional use.
      (1)   Auto reduction/recycling yards. The purpose of this provision is to
permit the continued operation and/or expansion of facilities, scope, or scale
of existing home-based auto reduction yards. No new operations shall be
permitted under this provision.
      (2)   Farm-related businesses.
         (a)   A business directly related to the conduct of agriculture that
involves: retail sales beyond the scope of a roadside stand or yard sale,
including “pick your own” sales; or operational limits exceeding that of a home
occupation; or a commercial structure that would be constructed according to
State Building Code.
         (b)   The following specific standard must be met: the business is 70%
farm- related under one or more of the following criteria:
            1.   The business provides a repair or maintenance service for
equipment unique and necessary to agricultural operations;
            2.   The business produces a product or involves a process that
utilizes locally grown or produced commodities; or
            3.   The business involves sales and/or purchasing of products of
the local agricultural economy or of goods unique and necessary to agricultural
operations.
      (3)   Day care (allowed in AG preserve) accommodating more than ten
children provided appropriate licenses and/or permits are granted by the state
or other appropriate agencies.
      (4)   Commercial kennels under the following conditions:
         (a)   The facility is 1,000 feet from any residence except that of the
owner and a minimum of ½-mile from ten or more homes existing prior to
application for a permit under this provision;
         (b)   An appropriate manure and waste treatment system shall be
provided for the kennel operation;
         (c)   Confinement and shelter is provided through the use of fences
and structures.
      (5)   Equestrian facilities.
         (a)   This division is intended to provide for equestrian-related
facilities, such as, a riding academy, stable, personal riding arena or other
similar use.
         (b)   The use must be located on a minimum of ten acres. The number of
animal units permitted will be regulated by the permit.
         (c)   A facility having ten or more horses shall be required to obtain
a feedlot certificate of compliance or as administered through the feedlot
regulations.
         (d)   A facility having nine or fewer horses shall provide evidence of
acceptable manure management.
         (e)   Permits involving personal riding arenas are exempt from the
prohibition on permit issuance on AG preserve land provided the approved
operation is accessory to the residence and there will be no commercial
boarding, training or other use for pay or similar remuneration.
      (6)   Aquaculture (allowed in AG preserve). The use of water or a
combination of land and water for the growing, raising, feeding, breeding or
holding of aquatic plants or animals and activities appurtenant thereto. The
conditional use permit shall establish whether retail sales are permitted and
if permitted to what extent.
      (7)   Retail nurseries provided the retail facility shall not be located
within 500 feet of any residence except that of the owner and 50% of the items
sold are grown on the site. No more than 10% of the retail business volume
shall be non-horticultural items.
      (8)   School bus service. The operation, maintenance and storage of two
or more school buses.
         (a)   The business shall be located at least 500 feet from neighboring
residences not on the same parcel of property existing at the time of
application for the permit.
         (b)   Site shall not be located within the Shoreland Overlay District
or the Floodplain Overlay District.
      (9)   Home extended business accessory use.
         (a)   It is the intent of this section to provide for the use of newly
constructed accessory structures, or adaptive re-use of residential accessory
and farm structures on parcels two acres or greater by permitting the use of
the structures for limited business purposes upon the issuance of a conditional
use permit pursuant to this section. Permits shall be issued and remain in
effect pursuant to this section only upon findings that the proposed use will
clearly be accessory and subordinate to the principal use of the land. Examples
of businesses permitted under this section include: woodworking, repair,
machining, professional services, and small scale contractor’s activities.
         (b)   The following shall be the minimum conditions/operational
standards for the issuance and continuation of such a permit; additional
conditions may be added as necessary;
            1.   The business shall be located at least 500 feet from
neighboring residences not on the same parcel of property existing at the time
of application for the permit.
            2.   The business must be conducted in one or more of the
following: an attached or detached garage, residential accessory structure, or
agricultural structure.
            3.   Businesses prohibited for the purposes of this section shall
be on-site recreation and entertainment businesses, mini-storage or seasonal
vehicle storage when storage is the principal activity of the business, and
businesses that require more than one truck with capacity greater than one ton.
            4.   There shall be no more than four employees in addition to the
owner/operator of the business and family of the owner/operator residing in the
home, providing the parcel is five acres or greater. Parcels two acres or
greater but less than five acres shall be restricted to two employees in
addition to family members residing in the home.
            5.   The business shall utilize no more than four business
vehicles, providing the parcel is five acres or greater. Parcels two acres or
greater but less than five acres shall be restricted to two business vehicles.
            6.   There shall be no retail sales. The sale of incidental stock-
in-trade shall not be considered retail sales.
            7.   No more than three clients shall be allowed on the premises at
any one time.
      (10)   Contractor’s yards.
         (a)   This subsection is intended to provide for contractor’s yards
established after January 1, 1989. A contractor’s yard is a site used for
storage of equipment and supplies by a contractor in the operation of his or
her business. For purposes of this subsection a contractor is a person whose
business is contracting work in any of the building trades, landscaping, road
building, sewer installation, or has at least two trucks, but fewer than ten
used to supply a service to local communities.
         (b)   The business shall be located at least 500 feet from neighboring
residences not on the same parcel of property existing at the time of
application for the permit.
         (c)   Site shall not be located within the Shoreland Overlay District
or the Floodplain Overlay District.
         (d)   Employees, except office personnel, report to the site only for
the purpose of picking up equipment and supplies, necessary fabrication and
general maintenance.
      (11)   Bed and breakfast (allowed in AG preserve). Owner occupied single-
family residence where accommodations, including the serving of meals, are
offered to transients (guests) on a nightly basis for compensation. The
following shall be the minimum standards for the issuance and continuation of
such a permit:
         (a)   The bed and breakfast facility shall be a converted or renovated
single-family residence wherein the primary function as a single-family
residence is maintained and the owner is in residence;
         (b)   Expansions, additions or remodeling effectively converting the
residence into a motel, hotel or lodge are prohibited;
         (c)   No structure shall be constructed for the sole purpose of being
utilized as a bed and breakfast facility;
         (d)   The number of guestrooms shall be determined by the number of
bedrooms in the house, less the number of bedrooms that have been dedicated to
family use. The number of allowable guestrooms shall not exceed five rooms;
         (e)   The primary entrance to guestrooms shall be from within the main
residential structure;
         (f)   Meals shall be provided only to those persons lodging on the
premises;
         (g)   Food preparation shall not be permitted in any of the
guestrooms, nor shall any guestrooms contain cooking facilities;
         (h)   The maximum number of allowable guests shall not exceed ten
persons;
         (i)   The maximum number of family and allowable guest shall not
exceed the capacity of the existing or upgraded septic system as approved by
County Environmental Services;
         (j)   Guests are limited to a stay of no more than 14 consecutive days
in length;
         (k)   Off-street parking shall be provided for guests and residents. A
minimum of one space for each guestroom and two spaces for the residents;
         (l)   Activities that call attention to persons other than the
residents shall be prohibited. Additional activities including, but not limited
to, banquets, weddings, meetings, luncheons, recreation, and other gatherings
for direct or indirect compensation are prohibited; and
         (m)   The site is of adequate size and configuration to accommodate
on-site sewer, parking, screening/buffer and all necessary facilities.
   (D)   Activities allowed as an interim use. Cannabis business, lower-potency
hemp edible manufacturer.
      (1)   The business must adhere to all applicable state cannabis
ordinances, Office of Cannabis Management license standards and county cannabis
registration requirements established by ordinance. The license standards
include, but are not limited to, Office of Cannabis Management rules regarding
security, standard operating procedures, wastewater, odor and filtration, solid
waste disposal, water standards, and energy use.
      (2)   The business operational area shall not be within 1,000 feet of the
nearest property line of a parcel containing a school, church, day care,
residential treatment facility, or an attraction within a public park that is
regularly used by minors, including a playground or athletic field; or within
500 feet of a neighboring residence not on the same parcel of property existing
at the time of application for the permit.
      (3)   All exterior lights on a parcel with a cannabis business shall be
shielded or use a hood and lens that cast light downward to minimize the amount
of light cast onto adjacent properties or upward into the night sky.
      (4)   All outdoor growing areas shall be surrounded by a commercial grade
fence at least six feet in height.
      (5)   The operational area of the business shall not be located within
the Shoreland Overlay District or the Floodplain Overlay District.
      (6)   These standards do not apply to cannabis retailer, lower-potency
hemp edible retailer, medical cannabis cultivator, medical cannabis combination
business, medical cannabis retailer, and cannabis testing facility license
holders. The land use standards for these cannabis businesses are regulated by
§§
152.080 and
152.098.
(Am. Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord.
97-2021, passed 7-20-21; Am. Ord. 108-2024, passed 11-19-24)
§ 152.080 CONDITIONAL/INTERIM USES–LARGE SCALE ACTIVITIES WITH UNIQUE LAND OR
LOCATION NEEDS.
   (A)   Minimum criteria for issuance.
      (1)   The activity conforms to all other county ordinances, state, and
federal regulations.
      (2)   Minimum five acre lot size; unless another size is specified under
a particular provision.
      (3)   Sewage can be managed in accordance with
Chapter 52 of this code of ordinances. The county may require design by a
registered engineer.
      (4)   The activity shall be located on a hard surfaced (blacktop or
concrete) road unless specific approval for location on a township road is
given by the affected township or townships. The town board may condition its
approval of access to a gravel road on agreements with the applicant regarding
dust control, maintenance, or similar issues. The terms of the agreement shall
be such that the agreement is in force so long as the permit is in effect.
      (5)   The activity is of a scale that the demand for support services
such as sewer, water, police, fire protection, emergency equipment access,
roads or streets, can be accommodated within the context of the service levels
available in the commercial agricultural area.
      (6)   Land is not subject to the land use restrictions of an AG preserve
covenant.
      (7)   The operational characteristics of the proposed activity shall be
such that it can be operated on the proposed site and within the current levels
of support services and infrastructure. Activities that will have service
needs–traffic capacity or roads, waste disposal or management, fire or police
protection, sewage disposal–that will exceed those available in the area should
locate in municipalities where the services are available.
   (B)   Minimum conditions.
      (1)   Permit shall be subject to administrative review or compliance
review as set by the permit.
      (2)   The operational plan and site plan shall become part of the permit.
      (3)   The activity must operate in conformance with the approved site
plan and operational plan and other provisions of this chapter. The site plan
and operational plan shall become part of the permit.
      (4)   The applicant must submit a copy of workers’ compensation insurance
or sign an affidavit stating that he or she will not have any employees.
      (5)   All buildings used in the operation must meet the State Building
Code.
   (C)   Activities allowed as a conditional use.
      (1)   Airports and personal use landing strips. Airports must have the
approval of the Minnesota Department of Transportation and/or the Metropolitan
Airports Commission.
      (2)   Churches. Related structures and activities, including education
and classes, located on the same site which are an integral part of the church
proper and convents or homes for persons related to the religious functions.
The number of dwelling units permitted shall not exceed the number of building
eligibilities available or the number of units existing on the church site as
of September 1, 1998.
      (3)   New or expanded existing cemeteries. Cemeteries shall not be
established in areas with a high water table.
      (4)   Historical sites and activities as recognized by the State
Historical Society.
      (5)   Golf courses subject to the following criteria:
         (a)   Golf courses will be permitted only in those townships where the
township comprehensive plan states that the use is a compatible and desirable
use within the township and the town board forwards a resolution to the county
stating that the proposal is in conformance with its comprehensive plan.
         (b)   The course must be located on either a minor collector, a major
collector, a minor arterial or major arterial road as identified in the current
Public Works' Transportation Plan. The road must be hard surfaced.
         (c)   A permanent club house must be constructed that is adequate in
size as per the State Building Code to serve the proposed number of golfers.
         (d)   The course must be a minimum of nine holes.
         (e)   There must be adequate fencing to deter trespassing on adjacent
property.
         (f)   The applicant will submit information identifying wetlands,
watercourses, water bodies and wooded areas. The applicant will also state how
the proposal would affect the above natural features. The proposal will be
reviewed to determine adverse impact on the above natural features and on areas
or sites of historical or archaeological significance. Conditions may be
imposed to limit or prevent adverse impact on the above stated or other natural
features.
         (g)   Any of the above requirements may be waived by the County Board
for golf courses existing at the time of adoption of the subdivision or for
golf courses that were once in existence and are being reactivated.
         (h)   Appropriate uses accessory to a golf course include but are not
limited to a pro shop, a club house, locker room, restaurant and bar, private
parties, tennis courts, racquetball, swimming pool, indoor track, exercise
room, sauna or steam room, snowmobiling, snowshoeing, cross- country skiing.
         (i)   These are uses generally or sometimes found in conjunction with
golf courses. Those permitted under a particular conditional use permit will be
dependent upon additional parking capacity, the capacity of the on-site sewer
system and the water supply system.
         (j)   If these uses are to be permitted they must be addressed in the
operational plan. Any changes in use requires an amendment to the conditional
use permit.
         (k)   The front yard setback area may be utilized for parking
purposes. A parking area located in a front yard setback may not be hard
surfaced with asphalt, concrete or similar material. At no time shall a parking
lot intrude upon or in any way utilize public right-of-way for parking
purposes.
      (6)   Recreational, educational, institutional facilities, agri-tourism
or activities that require a location in a rural area because of a need for
seclusion or a natural setting or a large area of land or activities conducted
on a permanent, seasonal or scheduled basis subject to the following criteria:
         (a)   No more than 20% of the land utilized for the activity, with the
exception of agri-tourism, shall be designated as prime agricultural land under
till, as illustrated by the Carver County geographic information systems (GIS)
mapping;
         (b)   The road authority will grant an access permit;
         (c)   A certificate of insurance and/or a performance surety may be
required;
         (d)   A stipulation is made in the permit as to the number of persons
to be using the facility at any one time;
         (e)   Any type of special event that will attract or involve more than
the number of people stipulated in division (6)(d) above shall require approval
of the County Board.
      (7)   Agricultural activities with a retail component, exceeding the
scope of an accessory use or administrative special use permit, subject to the
following criteria:
         (a)   Ninety percent of the products offered for sale shall be grown
on-site; and
         (b)   Sufficient off-street parking must be provided.
   (D)   Activities allowed as an interim use.
      (1)   Medical cannabis cultivator, medical cannabis combination business,
cannabis testing facility subject to the following criteria:
         (a)   The business must adhere to all applicable state cannabis
ordinances, Office of Cannabis Management license standards and county cannabis
registration requirements established by ordinance. The license standards
include, but are not limited to, Office of Cannabis Management rules regarding
security, standard operating procedures, wastewater, odor and filtration, solid
waste disposal, water standards, and energy use.
         (b)   The business operational area shall not be within 1,000 feet of
the nearest property line of a parcel containing a school, church, day care,
residential treatment facility, or an attraction within a public park that is
regularly used by minors, including a playground or athletic field; or within
500 feet of a neighboring residence not on the same parcel of property existing
at the time of application for the permit.
         (c)   No other cannabis businesses shall be located at the property.
         (d)   All outdoor growing areas shall be screened from public view and
surrounded by a commercial grade fence at least six feet in height.
         (e)   The operational area of the business shall not be located within
the Shoreland Overlay District or the Floodplain Overlay District.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 70-2010,
passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 80-2015, passed 6-16-15; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-
20-21; Am. Ord. 108-2024, passed 11-19-24)
§ 152.081 INTERIM USE PERMIT (IUP).
   The county may authorize an interim use of a property by means of an IUP.
These interim uses may be utilized in a temporary manner as approved by the
County Board. In reviewing the interim use permit application, the county will
establish a specific date or event that will terminate the use of the property.
In granting an IUP, the County Board shall consider the effect of the proposed
use upon the health, safety, and general welfare of occupants of surrounding
lands. Among other things, the Planning Commission and County Board shall make
the following findings where applicable.
      (A)   General provisions.
         (1)   The use conforms to the zoning regulations and the policies of
the Carver County comprehensive plan.
         (2)   The date or event that will terminate the use can be identified
with certainty.
         (3)   Permission of the use will not impose additional costs on the
public if it is necessary for the public to take the property in the future.
         (4)   The user agrees to any conditions that the governing body deems
appropriate for permission of the use.
         (5)   Any interim use may be terminated by a change in zoning
regulations.
(Ord.70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.082 INTERIM USE PERMIT-AG DISTRICT.
   (A)   Minimum criteria for issuance.
      (1)   If improvements are made, they shall be so designed and constructed
that they are not unsightly in appearance to the extent that it will hinder the
orderly and harmonious development of the district wherein proposed.
      (2)   The activity conforms to all other county ordinances, state, and
federal regulations.
      (3)   Minimum five acre lot size; unless another size is specified under
a particular provision.
      (4)   Waste generated shall be treated in accordance with
Chapter 52 of this code of ordinances. The county may require design by a
registered engineer.
      (5)   The activity shall be located on a hard surfaced (blacktop or
concrete) road unless specific approval for location on a township road is
given by the affected township or townships. The Town Board may condition its
approval of access to a gravel road on agreements with the applicant regarding
dust control, maintenance, or similar issues. The terms of the agreement shall
be such that the agreement is in force so long as the permit is in effect.
      (6)   The activity is of a scale that the demand for support services
such as sewer, water, police, fire protection, emergency equipment access,
roads or streets, can be accommodated within the context of the service levels
available in the commercial agricultural area. Adequate water supply,
subsurface sewage treatment system facilities, erosion control and stormwater
management are provided in accordance with applicable standards.
      (7)   The operational characteristics of the proposed activity shall be
such that it can be operated on the proposed site and within the current levels
of support services and infrastructure. Activities that will have service
needs-traffic capacity or roads, waste disposal or management, fire or police
protection, sewage treatment and dispersal-that will exceed those available in
the area should locate in municipalities where the services are available.
   (B)   Minimum conditions.
      (1)   Permit shall be subject to administrative review or compliance
review as set by the permit.
      (2)   The operational plan and site plan shall become part of the permit.
      (3)   The activity must operate in conformance with the approved site
plan and operational plan and other provisions of this chapter. The site plan
and operational plan shall become part of the permit.
      (4)   The applicant must submit a copy of workers compensation insurance
or sign an affidavit stating that he or she will not have any employees.
      (5)   All buildings used in the operation must meet the State Building
Code.
      (6)   The use will be sufficiently compatible with, or separated by
sufficient distance from, or screened from adjacent agricultural or residential
land uses so that there will be no deterrence to the use or development of
adjacent land and uses.
      (7)    The date or event that will terminate the use shall be identified.
   (C)   Activities (For the purpose of this section, conditional use permit
activities may also be considered and processed as interim uses).
      (1)   Mining and/or land reclamation involving 10,000 cubic yards or more
and no Carver County Water Management Organization or Minnehaha Creek Watershed
District permit has been issued when the project involves relocation of more
than 10,000 cubic yards of material from the site (allowed in AG Preserve if
the principal use remains AG and restoration is suitable for farming).
         (a)   The permit shall be issued only upon findings that:
            1.   There is no substantial environmental impact or that the
impact will be alleviated through a restoration program and other condition of
the permit; and
            2.   The activity will have no substantial adverse impact on
surrounding property or that the impact will be alleviated through the
conditions of the permit.
         (b)   Each permit shall contain the following minimum standards unless
modified by the County Board, and all activities shall conform to these and any
additional standards.
            1.   General operating requirements must address operating hours,
dust control, housekeeping, safety and specifying compliance review.
            2.   Minimum requirements for the operation.
               (i)   Erosion control measures shall be required. Erosion and
siltation of the surrounding area shall be prohibited.
               (ii)   No non-granular material shall be removed unless the
permit is specifically for such an operation.
               (iii)   Vertical faces shall be kept to a minimum except during
actual mining.
               (iv)   Mining shall not take place within 50 feet of a property
line. All slopes at property lines shall maintain a 2.5:1 slope or flatter. The
setback from the assumed road right-of-way shall be a minimum of 50 feet. The
setback from all homes shall be a minimum of 500 feet, excluding the residence
of the mine owner and/or permittee. The setback from a bluff shall be a minimum
of 100 feet.
               (v)   The permit shall specify what operations are to occur in
the permitted area and what general types of equipment may be used in the
operation. The Board may order the exclusive use of white noise beepers on
trucks and equipment utilized on the site.
               (vi)   Processing machinery must be located consistent with
setback standards for structures from ordinary high water levels of public
waters and from bluffs.
               (vii)   The maximum permitted operational area for mining shall
be 35 acres. Only one active IUP for mining is allowed for a parcel.
               (viii)   Stockpiles in excess of 1,000 cubic yards shall not be
located within the Floodplain Overlay District.
               (ix)   Any mining within 300 feet of a Class 3 through 8 wetland
must include a plan to improve public value(s), in conjunction with any Wetland
Conservation Act requirements.
               (x)   A mandatory traffic study shall be prepared by a licensed
engineer.
               (xi)   The operation must comply with applicable watershed
management rules.
               (xii)   The operation must comply with the applicable road
authority review and approval.
            3.   Site/operational plan. A plan shall be drawn on both a 1 inch
= 200 feet half section map and a 1 inch = 200 feet aerial plat showing at a
minimum the operational area, mining area, phasing of mining, erosion control
measures or structures, restoration areas, type of restoration, and staging of
restoration, any areas where mining will be below the water table or result in
standing water.
            4.   Reclamation plan. A reclamation plan must include the grading
plans, on-site topsoil replacement, seeding, mulching, erosion control and
sedimentation control specifications for each phase and an end use plan for
final site restoration. The operator and owner must follow the reclamation plan
approved by the County Board. The following minimum standards and conditions
apply.
               (i)   The peaks and depressions of the area shall be reduced to
a surface which will result in a gently rolling topography in substantial
conformity to the land area immediately surrounding, and which will minimize
erosion due to rainfall. No graded slope shall exceed a 5:1 ratio (20%). The
final grade slope shall commence at the setback. Berms will be removed to the
original elevation of the land, unless the Board has approved a different
elevation as part of the end use plan. Restored slopes must be 8:1 or flatter
within 500 feet of the top of a bluff.
               (ii)   Excavated, graded or back-filled areas shall meet the
following requirements.
                  A.   All materials used for back-filling in any area of the
reclamation shall be free of all contaminants and shall be non-noxious, non-
flammable and non-combustible.
                  B.   The graded or back-filled area shall not collect or
permit stagnant water to remain therein, unless there is an approved ponding
area or wetland restoration or creation.
                  C.   Such graded or back-filled area shall be surfaced with
soil of a quality at least equal to the topsoil of land areas immediately
surrounding and to a depth of at least four inches, and seeded or sodded.
                  D.   Such topsoil as required by the preceding division shall
be planted with trees, shrubs, legumes or grasses.
               (iii)   Seeding and mulching shall be consistent with Minnesota
Department of Transportation specifications for rights-of-way. Exceptions to
seeding and mulching include areas returned to agricultural production.
               (iv)   Soil restoration, seeding and mulching must occur within
each phase as soon as final grades, or interim grades identified in the phasing
plans, have been reached. Exceptions to seeding and mulching include the
processing, storage and staging areas within each phase.
               (v)   Soil erosion and sedimentation control measures shall be
consistent with MPCA’s publication entitled “Protecting Water Quality in Urban
Areas.”
               (vi)   Unless otherwise amended or approved by the county, all
final grades and site restoration efforts shall be consistent with the
reclamation plan.
               (vii)   When the end-use is some form of open space, the type of
vegetative regrowth must provide appropriate habitat for wildlife consistent
with the form of end-use.
               (viii)   The end-use plan shall consider the safe use of the
property. The end-use plan shall be consistent with the comprehensive plan and
the zoning ordinance.
               (ix)   Within nine months after completion of mineral extraction
or after termination of the permit, all equipment, vehicles, machinery,
materials, stockpiles of extracted mineral materials and debris shall be
removed from the subject property.
               (x)   For each phase, within nine months after completion of
mineral extraction for that phase, reclamation must be completed. If the permit
is terminated earlier, reclamation must be completed within nine months after
termination.
               (xi)   Soil and Water Conservation District and watershed review
and recommendations. As a part of the original application for an interim use
permit, the applicant shall submit grading plans, phased reclamation plans and
water control plans to the Carver County Soil and Water Conservation District
and to the governing bodies of the watersheds for review and recommendations.
The recommendations on the phased reclamation, grading, soil and water
retention plans may be included as conditions of the IUP. The permit may
require reforestation. Reforestation requirements shall be based on the
recommendation of the Natural Resources Conservation Service and/or the DNR
Forester.
            5.   Performance securities and insurance.
               (i)   The permittee shall acquire and keep in force for the
duration of the permit, liability insurance specifically covering the mining
and/or restoration and related operations. The permittee shall provide
certification of insurance.
               (ii)   A performance surety shall be provided. The permit shall
specify the amount and type of surety required. The surety, pursuant to the
county fee schedule, shall be used to reimburse the county for any monies,
labor, or material expended to bring the operation into compliance with the
conditions of the permit. The surety may be used after failure to execute the
restoration plan. The surety may also be used if there is a failure to execute
a phase of a restoration plan specifically scheduled in the permit.
      (2)   Temporary manufactured homes (allowed in AG Preserve).
         (a)   General provisions.
            1.   Location. Temporary manufactured homes shall be located on the
same site as the principal residence. The manufactured home shall be located so
that land that was in crop production is utilized only to the extent that it is
necessary to meet other requirements and provide a feasible location.
            2.   Removal. At such time as a temporary home ceases to be
occupied as required, the home shall be removed within 120 days of the
cessation of the required occupancy and no other occupancy shall occur.
            3.   Temporary manufactured homes shall not be made a permanent
structure. The manufactured home shall not be greater than 20 feet in width nor
shall an existing manufactured home be replaced with a structure greater than
20 feet in width. Additions other than decks or steps shall not be made to a
manufactured home.
            4.   The applicant shall demonstrate a need to provide the housing.
            5.   Temporary manufactured homes shall use the existing well.
         (b)   Farm workers. A manufactured home 20 feet or less in width may
be temporarily located on a parcel of 80 acres or more for the purpose of
housing farm workers. The parcel must contain one permanent dwelling unit
occupied by the owner or operator of the farm and must have one unused
residential building eligibility for each temporary home. If the manufactured
home is to be located on a parcel with one permanent dwelling, the occupant of
the manufactured home must work a minimum of 20 hours per week in the
agricultural operation. If the manufactured home is to be located on a parcel
with a permanent home and either a farm-related permanent home or a farm-
related manufactured home pursuant to this section or “farm related” or
“temporary mobile homes” under previous ordinances, then the occupant of the
manufactured home must work at least 40 hours per week in the agricultural
operation.
         (c)   Elderly/special needs parent/grandparent. A manufactured home 20
feet or less in width may be temporarily located on a parcel in order to
accommodate parents or grandparents with special needs. The subject parcel must
conform to all current zoning regulations and include one permanent dwelling.
The temporary manufactured home shall also meet all required zoning
regulations, including setbacks and applicable separation distances. The
elderly or special needs parent or grandparent may occupy either the temporary
or permanent home. The principal occupant of each home shall be specified by
name in the permit.
      (3)   Reoccurring special events (allowed in AG Preserve).
         (a)   Gatherings or events conducted on an annual or periodic basis,
typically one or two days in length, which are open to or accessible by the
public.
         (b)   General provisions.
            1.   Pre-event meeting shall be held with the Department to discuss
application.
            2.   Appropriate road authority shall review and approve the
application.
            3.   Sheriff’s Office shall review the application related to
safety and traffic control.
            4.   Performance surety and/or liability insurance certificate may
be requested as part of the application. The decision regarding sureties and
insurance would be subsequent to consultation with the County Risk Manager and/
or a County Attorney.
            5.   Applicant must comply with the conditions attached to the
permit for the reoccurring event.
      (4)   Home occupation detached structure (allowed in AG Preserve).
         (a)   IUPs may be issued for the adaptive re-use of detached accessory
structures constructed no less than 15 years prior to the current date. Permits
pursuant to this section may provide for expansion of the operation however,
the IUP would need to allow for easy conversion to a personal accessory use.
The following criteria must be met in order to qualify for this provision:
            1.   The lot shall be a minimum of 2 acres in size;
            2.   The structural condition of the building is determined to be
sound and not in need of major repair or rehabilitation;
            3.   The building is of a size, type of construction, or
configuration that it is reasonable to expect that it can be efficiently or
economically used as an accessory to the principle use;
            4.   The use shall comply with the home occupation standards
pursuant to this chapter, with the exception of the detached accessory
structure; and
            5.   The business shall be located at least 200 feet from
neighboring residences, not on the same parcel of property, existing at the
time of application for the permit.
      (5)   Recreational, educational, agri-tourism, and institutional
activities that require a location in a rural area because of a need for
seclusion or a natural setting or a large area of land and do not require a
permanent or significant structure(s) subject to the following criteria:
         (a)   No more than 20% of the land utilized for the activity, with the
exception of agri-tourism shall have been shown to be prime agriculture land
under till, as illustrated by the Carver County Geographic Information Systems
(GIS) Mapping;
         (b)   The road authority will grant an access permit;
         (c)   A certificate of insurance and/or a performance surety may be
required;
         (d)   A stipulation is made in the permit as to the number of persons
to be using the site at any one time; and
         (e)   Any type of special event that will attract or involve more than
the number of people stipulated in division (C)(5)(d) above shall require
approval of the County Board.
(Ord.70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 80-2015, passed 6-16-15; Am. Ord. 97-
2021, passed 7-20-21; Am. Ord. 108-2024, passed 11-19-24) Penalty, see §
152.999
RURAL SERVICE OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 152.095 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the overlay zoning district is to recognize and facilitate
the role of the rural service districts as defined in the comprehensive plan
within the context of the Agriculture (“A”) District.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.096 DESIGNATION.
   The following areas–Bongards, Maple, East Union, Gotha, Hollywood and
Hollywood Station–with boundaries as shown on the Zoning Map shall be
considered Rural Service District under the terms and provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.097 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   Within the Rural Service Districts, conditional use permits may be issued
for the following:
   (A)   Newly proposed use. Land uses supporting the agricultural economy or
serving the needs of the surrounding rural community provided one of the
following minimum criteria are met:
      (1)   Rural community-related uses serving the needs of the people of the
immediate area by providing family recreation, religious facilities, minimum
convenience shopping, minor repair services, light manufacturing, and those
activities listed as conditional uses in §
152.079 provided the applicable regulations can be met. Any rural community-
related use shall be of a scale no larger than that necessary to serve the
needs of the local rural community.
      (2)   Agricultural support. An activity providing goods or services
related to the conduct of agriculture.
   (B)   Adaptive re-use of existing structures and buildings. Conditional/
interim use permits for commercial, light manufacturing, or institutional
purposes may be issued for the adaptive re-use of buildings or facilities
constructed at least 15 years or more from the current date. Permits pursuant
to this section may not provide for substantial expansion of the existing
operation or provide for new buildings or facilities. The following criteria
must be met in order to qualify for this provision:
      (1)   The building or facility was designed and constructed for a
commercial, industrial, or institutional purpose;
      (2)   The structural condition of the building or facility is determined
to be sound and not in need of major repair or rehabilitation;
      (3)   The building or facility is of a size, type of construction, or
configuration that it is not reasonable to expect that it can be efficiently or
economically used as a newly proposed use as described above; and
      (4)   The operation utilizing the building or facility substantially
conforms to newly proposed use provisions of the Rural Service District.
   (C)   Special provisions. A conditional permit for limited highway service
uses may be issued in Hollywood Station RSD. A conditional use permit of dairy
product processing and appurtenant activities may be issued in Bongards RSD
provided waste treatment is accomplished in accordance with state and federal
regulation.
   (D)   Adult uses.
      (1)   A conditional use permit shall be required for the establishment of
an adult use business pursuant to
Chapter 113 of the Carver County Code. A conditional use permit pursuant to
this provision shall not be issued until the proposed adult use has an approved
provisional adult use license pursuant to
Chapter 113. In considering a conditional use permit pursuant to
Chapter 113 of the Carver County Code:
         (a)   Only the definite, objective guidelines and standards of §§
152.245 through
152.252 apply; and
         (b)   No general health, safety and welfare requirements shall apply,
as adult use businesses as defined in
Chapter 113 are protected by the First Amendment of the United States
Constitution.
      (2)   The requirements of this chapter which may not be constitutionally
applied shall be severed from the requirements which may be constitutionally
applied and those applicable shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 66-2010,
passed 4-13-10; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21; Am. Ord. 108-2024, passed 11-
19-24)
§ 152.098 INTERIM USE PERMITS.
   Within the Rural Service Districts, interim use permits may be issued for
the following: cannabis retailer, medical cannabis retailer, lower-potency hemp
edible retailer. An interim use permit for the establishment of these
businesses shall be required, pursuant to M.S. Chapter 342 and to the following
conditions:
   (A)   The business must adhere to all applicable state cannabis ordinances,
Office of Cannabis Management license standards and county cannabis
registration requirements established by ordinance. These standards include,
but are not limited to, Office of Cannabis Management rules regarding security,
standard operating procedures, hours of operation, wastewater, odor and
filtration, solid waste disposal, water standards, and energy use.
   (B)   The business operational area shall not be within 1,000 feet of the
nearest property line of a parcel containing a school, church, day care,
residential treatment facility, or an attraction within a public park that is
regularly used by minors, including a playground or athletic field.
   (C)   The business shall be located on a parcel of two acres or more in
size.
   (D)   All buildings utilized by the operation must meet the State Building
Code.
   (E)   The activity shall be located on a hard-surfaced (blacktop or
concrete) road unless specific approval for location on a township road is
given by the affected township or townships. The town board may condition its
approval of access to a gravel road on agreements with the applicant regarding
dust control, maintenance, or similar issues. The terms of the agreement shall
be such that the agreement is in force so long as the permit is in effect.
(Ord. 108-2024, passed 11-19-24)
§ 152.099 SERVICE LEVEL.
   Uses permitted pursuant to this subchapter must be able to operate within
the context of the level of services available in the Rural Service District.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21; Am. Ord. 108-2024,
passed 11-19-24)
SHORELAND OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 152.108 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION AND POLICY.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the
authorization and policies contained in M.S. Chapter 103F, Minn. Rules Parts
6120.2500 through 6120.3900, and the planning and zoning enabling legislation
in M.S. Chapter 394.
   (B)   Policy. The Legislature of Minnesota has delegated responsibility to
local governments of the state to regulate the subdivision, use and development
of the shorelands of public waters and thus preserve and enhance the quality of
surface waters, conserve the economic and natural environmental values of
shorelands, and provide for the wise use of waters and related land resources.
This responsibility is hereby recognized by Carver County.
(Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.109 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Jurisdiction. The provisions of this chapter apply to the shorelands
of the public water bodies as classified in §
152.111 of this chapter. Pursuant to Minn. Rules Parts 6120.2500 through
6120.3900, no lake, pond or flowage less than 25 acres in size in
unincorporated areas need be regulated in a local government’s shoreland
regulations. A body of water created by a private user where there was no
previous shoreland may, at the discretion of the governing body, be exempt from
this chapter.
   (B)   Enforcement. Carver County is responsible for the administration and
enforcement of this chapter. Any violation of the provision of this chapter or
failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variance or
conditional uses constitutes a misdemeanor and is punishable as defined by law.
Violations of this chapter can occur regardless of whether or not a permit is
required for a regulated activity listed in § 152.140 of this chapter.
   (C)   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
subchapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this subchapter shall not be affected thereby.
   (D)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended by this
subchapter to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions. However, where this subchapter imposes greater restrictions,
the provisions of this subchapter shall prevail. All ordinances inconsistent
with this subchapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency
only.
(Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.110 (RESERVED).
§ 152.111 SHORELAND CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   Purpose. To ensure that shoreland development on the public waters of
Carver County is regulated consistent with the classifications assigned by the
Commissioner under Minn. Rules Part 6120.3300.
   (B)   The shorelands of Carver County are hereby placed into the “Shoreland
Overlay District.” For the purposes of this chapter, the regulations of this
section shall apply to those lands meeting the definition of shoreland and as
shown on Carver County Zoning Map #2, Shoreland Districts, which are listed
below.
   (C)   Lakes are classified as follows:
 
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT
Name    DNR Inventory Number Township Section
Waconia 10-59P               116-24   6,7,18
                           116-25   1,2,10-15
Bavaria 10-19P               116-23   19,30
                           116-24   24
Benton  10-69P               115-25   11,14
 
RECREATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Name DNR Inventory Number Township Section
RECREATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Name                   DNR Inventory Number Township Section
Parley                 10-42P               116-24   4,5,6,8,9
Auburn                 10-44P               116-24   10,11,14,15
Wassermann (Wasserman) 10-48P               116-24   14,22,23
Piersons (Pierson)     10-53P               116-24   21,22,27,28
Burandt                10-84P               116-25   14,15,22,23
Hydes                  10-88P               116-25   30,31,32
 
NATURAL ENVIRONMENT LAKES
Name DNR Inventory Number Section(s)
NATURAL ENVIRONMENT LAKES
Name             DNR Inventory Number Section(s)
Benton Township T115, R25
Maria            10-58P (part)        36
Winkler          10-66P               4,9
Barlous (Barlow) 10-67P               5,6,7,8
Myers (Meyers)   10-68P               7,8,17,18
Rice             10-78P (part)        5,6
Gruenhagen       10-71P               19,20
                 10-187P (part)       3,4
Meuwissen        10-70W               14
                 10-188W (part)       5
Camden Township T116, R26
Berliner         10-103P (part)       12,13
Baylor           10-118P              22,27,28
Eagle            10-121P              27,34,35
 
NATURAL ENVIRONMENT LAKES
Name DNR Inventory Number Section(s)
NATURAL ENVIRONMENT LAKES
Name                    DNR Inventory Number Section(s)
Reich                   10-43-1P (part)      6
                       10-116P              21,22,28
                       10-117P              22,27
                       10-173W              6
                       10-174W              7
Smith                   10-120W              29,32
Dahlgren Township T115, R24
Aue Lake                10-28P               4,9,10
Miller Lake             10-29P               7,8
Gaystock (Gestach) Lake 10-31P               11
Maria Lake              10-58P (part)        31
                       10-40W               35
                       10-32W               12
Hancock Township T114, R25
Assumption Lake         10-63P               7
                       10-236P              14
Hollywood Township T117, R26
Campbell                10-127P (part)       18,19
Lippert                 10-104P (part)       24,25
                       10-162P              13,24
Reich                   43-10P (part)        31
Crookshank              10-125P              16,17
Firemen's               10-126W              31,32
 
NATURAL ENVIRONMENT LAKES
Name DNR Inventory Number Section(s)
NATURAL ENVIRONMENT LAKES
Name                   DNR Inventory Number Section(s)
Laketown Township T116, R24
Lundsten               10-43P               9
Carl Krey Lake         10-50P               15
Reitz Lake             10-52P               19,20
Marsh Lake             10-54P               26,27
Stone Lake             10-56P               3
Unnamed (Auburn Marsh) 10-49W               15,16
                      10-135P              3
                      10-136P              3
                      10-138P              3
                      10-140P              4
                      10-141P              4
                      10-142P              4
                      10-144P (part)       6
                      10-192P              9
                      10-60P (part)        19,30
Turbid                 10-51W               16,21
                      10-143W              5,6,7
San Francisco Township T114, R24
Kelly                  10-21P               14,21,22
Scott                  10-22P               16,17
Hallquist              10-24P               20,21,28,29
Unnamed (Hallquist)    10-233P              29
                      10-234P              29
                      10-235P              29
 
NATURAL ENVIRONMENT LAKES
Name DNR Inventory Number Section(s)
NATURAL ENVIRONMENT LAKES
Name           DNR Inventory Number Section(s)
Rapids (Rapid) 10-17P               35,31 [115-24, 115-23]
Long Lake      10-16W               6,7,1,12 [114-23, 24]
Waconia Township T116, R25
Rice           10-78P (part)        31,32
Donders        10-79P               3,4,9,10
Swan           10-82P               9,16
Patterson      10-86P               19,20,29,30
              10-187P (part)       33,34
              10-60P               24,25
Berliner       10-103P (part)       7
Root (Linder)  10-81W               8,9
              10-161P              2,3
              10-144P (part)       1
Goose          10-89P (part)        3,4,5
Rutz           10-80W               8
              10-85W               15
              10-188W (part)       32
Watertown Township T117, R25
Goose          10-89P (part)        32,33
              10-161P (part)       34,35,36
              10-144P (part)       36
              10-99P               22,26,27
Buck           10-98P               23,24,25,26
Swede          10-95P               15,21,22,23
Mud            10-94P               13,14
 
NATURAL ENVIRONMENT LAKES
Name DNR Inventory Number Section(s)
NATURAL ENVIRONMENT LAKES
Name                   DNR Inventory Number Section(s)
Oak                    10-93P               10,11,14
                      10-153P              11,12
Millman                10-90P               1,12
                      10-146P (part)       12
Rice                   10-86-32P (part)     1
                      10-91P               5,6,7,8
Lippert                10-104P (part)       19,30
                      10-97W               16,21
                      10-160W              36
Young America Township T115, R26
Young America          10-105P              1,11,12
Barnes                 10-109P              12,13
Brand                  10-110P              14,15,22,23
Fredericks (Fredricks) 10-112P              22,23,26,27
Tiger                  10-108P              4,8,9,10,15,16
Braunworth             10-107P              2,11
 
   (D)   Rivers and streams are classified as follows:
 
AGRICULTURE
Name            Legal Description
                T117, R25, S4, 8, 9, 17, 19, 20, 30, 31
Crow River      T117, R26, S36
                T116, R26, S1, 2, 10, 11, 15, 17, 18, 20, 21, 22
                T115, R23, S2, 3, 9, 16, 17, 20, 30, 31
Minnesota River T114, R23, S5, 6, 7
                T114, R24, S11, 12, 14, 15, 21, 22, 28, 29, 30, 31
 
   (E)   All public rivers and streams shown on the Public Waters Inventory Map
for Carver County, a copy of which is adopted by reference, not given a
classification in this section shall be considered “Tributary”.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.112 PERMITTED USES.
   Any use permitted in the underlying district as modified by any other
overlay district, as per §§
152.052,
152.070, and
152.073, with the following further restrictions:
   (A)   Feedlots shall occur only pursuant to a conditional use permit;
   (B)   The shore impact zone for parcels with permitted agricultural land
uses is equal to a line parallel to and 50 feet from the ordinary high water
level.
   (C)   General cultivation farming, grazing, nurseries, horticulture, truck
farming, sod farming, and wild crop harvesting are permitted uses if steep
slopes and shore and bluff impact zones are maintained in perennial vegetation
or operated under an approved conservation plan consistent with the field
office technical guides of the local soil and water conservation district or
the Natural Resource Conservation Service, and as approved by the local soil
and water conservation district.
   (D)   New feedlots within the Shoreland District are prohibited.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.113 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Any use listed as a conditional use in the underlying district as modified
by any other overlay districts, as per §§
152.052,
152.075 through
152.082, and
152.097, and as further regulated below:
   (A)   A new contractor’s yard shall not be permitted within the Shoreland
District.
   (B)   Feedlots subject to the following criteria:
      (1)   All criteria listed in §
152.071;
      (2)   A new animal feedlot area shall not be constructed within
shoreland;
      (3)   Must be designed consistent with Minn. Rules Chapter 7020.
      (4)   An existing animal feedlot area located in shoreland may not expand
to a capacity of 1,000 animal units or more or the manure produced by 1,000
animal units or more. An existing animal feedlot expanding in shoreland shall
not locate any portion of the expanded animal feedlot closer to the ordinary
high water mark or bluff impact zone than any existing portion of the animal
feedlot.
      (5)   Old feedlots not currently in operation may resume operation
consistent with M.S. § 116.0711.
   (C)   In cases where the underlying district or other overlay district
provides for surface water-oriented commercial, public or semi-public uses, any
of these uses which require access to or use of public waters shall be subject
to the following criteria:
      (1)   The use complies with §§
152.114 and
152.115.
      (2)   The uses must be designed to incorporate topographic and vegetative
screening of parking areas and structures.
      (3)   Uses that require short-term watercraft mooring for patrons must
centralize these facilities and design them to avoid obstructions of navigation
and to be the minimum size necessary to meet the need. If more than six
watercraft will be moored at one time, then the lot frontage required will need
to be consistent with the table in §
152.034(D).
      (4)   Uses that depend on patrons arriving by watercraft may use signs in
accordance with this chapter.
   (D)   One temporary manufactured home may be allowed on lots meeting or
exceed the lot area and width dimensions presented in §
152.082 and must be located or designed to reduce its visibility as viewed from
public waters and adjacent shorelands by vegetation, topography, increased
setbacks or color, assuming summer leaf-on conditions.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.114 ACCESSORY USES.
   Any use listed as an accessory use in the underlying district as modified by
any other overlay district and as further regulated below:
   (A)   Water-related accessory structure under the following conditions:
      (1)   The structure is not more than 250 square feet. The structure shall
be considered part of the aggregate total square footage of accessory
structures permitted.
      (2)   The structure is not more than ten feet high. Detached decks shall
not exceed a height of eight feet above grade.
      (3)   The structure is setback ten feet from the ordinary high water
level.
      (4)   The structure is situated in a manner and is constructed of a type
of material that allows it to blend in with the area.
      (5)   The structure must not be served with sewer or water.
      (6)   The roof may be used as a deck with safety rails, but must not be
enclosed or used as a storage area.
   (B)   Stairways, lifts and landings are the preferred alternative to major
topographic alterations for achieving access up and down bluffs and steep
slopes to shore areas. Stairways, lifts and landings require no setback if they
are being used to achieve access up and down bluffs and steep slopes.
Stairways, lifts and landings are subject to the following standards:
      (1)   Stairways and lifts must not exceed four feet in width on
residential lots. Wider stairways may be used for commercial properties and
public open space recreational properties.
      (2)   Landings for stairways and lifts on residential lots must not
exceed 32 square feet in area. Landings larger than 32 square feet may be used
for commercial properties, and public open-space recreational properties.
      (3)   Canopies or roofs are not allowed on stairways, lifts, or landings.
      (4)   Stairways, lifts, and landings may be either constructed above the
ground on posts or pilings, or placed into the ground, provided they are
designed and built in a manner that ensures the control of soil erosion.
      (5)   Stairways, lifts, and landings must be located in the most visually
inconspicuous portions of lots, as viewed from the surface of the public water
assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, whenever practical.
      (6)   Facilities such as ramps, lifts, or mobility paths for physically
handicapped persons are also allowed for achieving access to shore areas,
provided these facilities meet the standards above (divisions (1) through (5))
as well as complying with the requirements of Minn. Rules Chapter 1340, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Carver County does not regulate permanent or seasonal docks or private
boat ramps. The Minnesota DNR regulates and issues permits for these structures
in accordance with Minn. Rules Parts 6115.0150 through 6115.0520, as they may
be amended from time to time. For further information contact the Division of
Waters at the Minnesota DNR.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.115 PROHIBITED USES.
   Industrial uses are prohibited in the shoreland areas of natural environment
lakes and agricultural rivers, even if the underlying zone allows for
industrial use as a conditional use.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02)
§ 152.115.1 LAND USES BY LAKE, RIVER AND STREAM CLASSIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Shoreland District land uses listed in this section are regulated as:
      (1)   Permitted uses (P). These uses are allowed, provided all standards
in this chapter are followed;
      (2)   Conditional uses (C). These uses are allowed through a conditional
use permit. The use must be evaluated according to the criteria in §
152.113 and any additional conditions listed in this chapter;
      (3)   Interim uses (I). These uses are allowed through an interim use
permit. The use must be evaluated according to §
152.245 and any additional conditions listed in this chapter; and
      (4)   Not permitted uses (N). These uses are prohibited.
   (B)   Land uses for lake classifications:
Land Uses General Development Recreational Development Natural Environment
Land Uses               General Development Recreational Natural Environment
                                            Development
Single residential      P                   P            P
Commercial              C                   C            C
Parks and historic      C                   C            C
sites
Public, semipublic      C                   C            C
Agricultural: cropland  P                   P            P
and pasture
Agricultural feedlots:  N                   N            N
new
Agricultural feedlots:
expansion or resumption C                   C            C
of existing
Mining                  I                   I            I
 
   (C)   Land uses for stream/river classifications:
Land Uses Agriculture Tributary
Land Uses                                         Agriculture Tributary
Single residential                                P           P
Commercial                                        C           C
Parks and historic sites                          C           C
Public, semipublic                                C           C
Agricultural: cropland and pasture                P           P
Agricultural feedlots: new                        N           N
Agricultural feedlots: expansion or resumption or C           C
existing
Mining                                            I           I
 
(Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21; Am. Ord. 108-2024, passed 11-19-24)
§ 152.115.2 CONTROLLED ACCESS LOT FRONTAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Controlled access lots on public waters are permissible if created as
part of subdivision and are subject to meeting or exceeding the following
standards:
      (1)   Lots must meet the width and size requirements for residential lots
and must be suitable for the intended uses of controlled access and recreation.
      (2)   If docking, mooring, or over-water storage of more than six
watercraft is to be allowed at a controlled access lot, then the width of the
lot (keeping the same lot depth) must be increased by the percent of the
requirements for riparian residential lots for each watercraft beyond six,
consistent with the following table:
 
Controlled Access Lot Frontage Requirements
Ratio of lake size to shore Length (acres/miles); required percent increase in
                            frontage
Less than 100               25%
100 - 200                   20%
201 - 300                   15%
301 - 400                   10%
Greater than 400            5%
 
      (3)   The lot must be jointly owned by all purchasers of lots in the
subdivision or by all purchasers of non-riparian lots in the subdivision who
are provided riparian access rights on the access lot.
      (4)   Covenants or other equally effective legal instruments must be
developed that:
         (a)   Specify which lot owners have authority to use the controlled
access lot; identify what activities are allowed. The activities may include
watercraft launching, loading, storage, beaching, mooring, docking, swimming,
sunbathing, or picnicking.
         (b)   Limit the total number of vehicles allowed to be parked and the
total number of watercraft allowed to be continuously moored, docked, or stored
over water, and must require centralization of all common facilities and
activities in the most suitable location on the lot to minimize topographic and
vegetation alterations.
         (c)   Require all parking areas, storage buildings, and other
facilities to be screened by vegetation or topography as much as practical from
view from the public water, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
(Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.116 LOT SIZE AND WIDTH, SETBACKS, AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   See standards section (§§
152.025 through
152.041) and provisions below.
   (B)   Any structure must meet §
152.034. Additional provisions with regard to setbacks include:
      (1)   Any structure proposed to be set closer than 30 feet to the crest
of a slope of 18% or greater and which meets the ordinary high water level
setback, will require a separate grading and filling permit with plans prepared
by a registered engineer.
      (2)   Setbacks from an unplatted cemetery will be 50 feet from the
nearest identifiable grave or 50 feet from the property line, whichever is less
restrictive.
      (3)   Public, semi-public, industrial, or commercial uses without water-
oriented needs must be located on lots or parcels without public waters
frontage, or, if located on lots or parcels with public waters frontage, must
either be set back double the normal ordinary high water level setback or be
substantially screened from view from the water by vegetation or topography,
assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
      (4)   Where structures exist on the adjoining lots on both sides of a
proposed building site, structure setbacks may be altered without a variance to
conform to the average adjoining setbacks from the ordinary high water level,
provided the proposed building site is within a platted area or a metes and
bounds subdivision and is not located in a shore impact or bluff impact zone.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a8d38408183f4b9976deef69493e99a252875466/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2398.png]
 
      (5)   Only lands above the ordinary high water level can be used to meet
lot area and width standards.
      (6)   Lot width standards must be met at both the ordinary high water
level and at the front setback.
      (7)   Lake minimum lot areas and width standards must comply with §
152.033.
   (C)   Deck additions may be allowed without a variance to a structure not
meeting the required setback from the ordinary high water level if all of the
following criteria and standards are met:
      (1)   The structure existed on the date of adoption of this chapter;
      (2)   A thorough evaluation of the property and structure reveals no
reasonable location for a deck meeting or exceeding the existing ordinary high
water level setback of the structure;
      (3)   The deck encroachment toward the ordinary high water level does not
exceed 15% of the existing setback of the structure from the ordinary high
water level or does not encroach closer than 30 feet, whichever is more
restrictive; and
      (4)   The deck is constructed primarily of wood and is not roofed or
screened.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a8d38408183f4b9976deef69493e99a252875466/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2396.png]
 
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.117 LOWEST FLOOR ELEVATION.
   (A)   Determining elevations. Structures must be placed in accordance with
any floodplain regulations applicable to the site. Where these controls do not
exist, the elevation to which the lowest floor, including basement, is placed
or flood proofed must be determined as follows:
      (1)   For lakes, by placing the lowest floor at a level at least three
feet above the highest known water level, or three feet above the ordinary high
water level, whichever is higher.
      (2)   For rivers and streams, by placing the lowest floor at least three
feet above the highest known flood elevation. If highest known flood elevation
is not available, by placing the lowest floor at least three feet above the
highest known flood elevation, or by conducting a technical evaluation to
determine effects of proposed construction upon flood stages and flood flows
and to establish a flood protection elevation. Technical evaluations must be
done by a qualified engineer or hydrologist consistent with Minn. Rules Parts
6120.5000 through 6120.6200.
   (B)   Methods for placement.
      (1)   In addition to the lowest floor, all service utilities must be
elevated or water-tight to the elevation determined in division (A).
      (2)   If elevation methods involving fill would result in filling in the
SIZ, then structures must instead be elevated through floodproofing methods in
accordance with §
152.121(B)(3) below.
      (3)   If the structure is floodproofed, then it must be built to resist
hydrostatic pressure through elevation methods such as blocks, pilings, filled
stem walls, elevated concrete pad, internally flooded enclosed areas, or
through other accepted engineering practices consistent with FEMA technical
bulletins 1, 2, and 3.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a8d38408183f4b9976deef69493e99a252875466/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2400.png]
 
   (C)   Water-oriented accessory structures may have the lowest floor placed
lower than the elevation determined above in divisions (A) or (B) if the
structure is constructed of flood-resistant materials to the elevation,
electrical and mechanical equipment is placed above the elevation and, if long
duration flooding is anticipated, the structure is built to withstand ice
action and wind-driven waves and debris.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.117.1 STAIRWAYS, LIFTS AND LANDINGS.
   Stairways and lifts are the preferred alternative to major topographic
alterations for achieving access up and down bluffs and steep slopes to shore
areas. Stairways, lifts and landings must meet the following design
requirements:
   (A)   Stairways and lifts must not exceed four feet in width on residential
lots. Wider stairways may be used for commercial properties, public
recreational uses, and planned unit developments;
   (B)   Landings for stairways and lifts on residential lots must not exceed
32 square feet in area. Landings larger than 32 square feet may be used for
commercial properties, public-space recreational uses, and planned unit
developments;
   (C)   Canopies or roofs are not allowed on stairways, lifts, or landings;
   (D)   Stairways, lifts, and landings may be either constructed above the
ground on posts or pilings, or placed into the ground, provided they are
designed and built in a manner that ensures control of soil erosion;
   (E)   Stairways, lifts, and landings must be located in the most visually
inconspicuous portions of lots, as viewed from the surface of the public water
assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, whenever practical; and
   (F)   Facilities such as ramps, lifts, or mobility paths for physically
handicapped persons are also allowed for achieving access to shore areas, if
they are consistent with the dimensional and performance standards of divisions
(A) through (E) and the requirements of Minn. Rules Chapter 1341.
(Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.118 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR PUBLIC AND PRIVATE FACILITIES.
   Placement and design of roads, driveways, and parking areas. Public and
private roads and parking areas must be designed to take advantage of natural
vegetation and topographic to achieve maximum screening as viewed from public
waters and comply with the following standards:
   (A)   Roads, driveways, and parking areas must meet structure setbacks and
must not be placed within bluff and shore impact zones, when other reasonable
and feasible placement alternatives exist. If no alternatives exist, they must
be placed within these areas, and must be designed to minimize adverse impacts;
   (B)   Watercraft access ramps, approach roads, and access-related parking
areas may be placed within shore impact zones provided the vegetative screening
and erosion control conditions of this section are met. Private facilities must
comply with the grading and filling provisions of §
152.126.
   (C)   For public roads, driveways and parking areas, documentation must be
provided by a qualified individual that they are designed and constructed to
minimize and control erosion to public waters consistent with the field office
technical guides of the local soil and water conservation district, or other
applicable technical materials.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.118.1 WATER-ORIENTED ACCESSORY STRUCTURES OR FACILITIES.
   Each residential lot may have one water-oriented accessory structure or
facility if it complies with the following provisions:
   (A)   The structure or facility must not exceed ten feet in height,
exclusive of safety rails, and cannot occupy an area greater than 250 square
feet. The structure or facility may include detached decks not exceeding eight
feet above grade at any point or at-grade patios;
   (B)   The structure or facility is not in the bluff impact zone;
   (C)   The setback of the structure or facility from the ordinary high water
level must be at least ten feet;
   (D)   The structure is not a boathouse or boat storage structure as defined
under M.S. § 103G.245;
   (E)   The structure or facility must be treated to reduce visibility as
viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by vegetation, topography,
increased setbacks or color, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions;
   (F)   The roof may be used as an open-air deck with safety rails, but must
not be enclosed with a roof or sidewalls or used as a storage area;
   (G)   The structure or facility must not be designed or used for human
habitation and must not contain water supply or sewage treatment facilities;
   (H)   As an alternative for general development and recreational development
waterbodies, water-oriented accessory structures used solely for storage of
watercraft and boating-related equipment may occupy an area up to 400 square
feet provided the maximum width of the structure is 20 feet as measured
parallel to the shoreline; and
   (I)   Water-oriented accessory structures may have the lowest floor placed
lower than the elevation specified in §
152.121 if the structure is designed to accommodate internal flooding,
constructed of flood-resistant materials to the elevation, electrical and
mechanical equipment is placed above the elevation and, if long duration
flooding is anticipated, the structure is built to withstand ice action and
wind-driven waves and debris.
   (J)   Carver County does not regulate permanent or seasonal docks or private
boat ramps. The Minnesota DNR regulates, and issues permits for these
structures in accordance with Minn. Rules Parts 6115.0150 through 6115.0520, as
they may be amended from time to time. For further information contact the
Division of Waters at the Minnesota DNR.
(Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.118.2 MINING STANDARDS.
   Extractive uses are interim uses and must meet the following standards:
   (A)   Site development and restoration plan. A site development and
restoration plan must be developed, approved, and followed over the course of
operations. The plan must:
      (1)   Address dust, noise, possible pollutant discharges, hours and
duration of operation, and anticipated vegetation and topographic alterations;
      (2)   Identify actions to be taken during operation to mitigate adverse
environmental impacts, particularly erosion; and
      (3)   Clearly explain how the site will be rehabilitated after extractive
activities end.
   (B)   Setbacks for processing machinery. Processing machinery must meet
structure setback standards from ordinary high water levels and from bluffs.
   (C)   Must meet the provisions of M.S. §§ 93.44 through 93.51.
(Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21; Am. Ord. 108-2024, passed 11-19-24)
§ 152.119 (RESERVED).
§ 152.120 WATER SUPPLY.
   Any supply of water for domestic purposes must meet or exceed the standards
for water quality of the Minnesota Department of Health and the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency and any applicable Carver County ordinances. Central
public water supplies shall be used where available and feasible.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.121 SEWAGE DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Any premises intended for human occupancy shall be provided with an adequate
method of sewage treatment, as follows: central public sewage collection and
treatment shall be used wherever available and feasible; all on-site sewage
treatment systems shall conform with
Chapter 52 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.122 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS; SSTS COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Building permits, variances, conditional or interim use permits or
permits of any type that are required for any improvement on, or use of
property, except as provided below, shall not be issued unless a certificate of
compliance, pursuant to
Chapter 52 of this code of ordinances, has been submitted for all SSTS existing
on the property at the time of application.
   (B)   If an SSTS is found to be nonconforming, the permits or variances
shall not be issued until the SSTS is upgraded or replaced to meet the
standards of
Chapter 52 of this code of ordinances. In lieu of the upgrade or replacement,
or when an SSTS compliance inspection report cannot be completed due to weather
(such as, snow and frost), an appropriate escrow may be established for the
SSTS upgrade, replacement and/or inspection, upon approval by the Department.
All SSTS work shall be completed within 12 months of the issuance of the permit
or variance, unless a different timeframe is addressed by the permit, variance,
or other regulation.
   (C)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to: mechanical permits for
the installation or repair of heating equipment; permits for roof replacement
or repair; and permits for the repair of damage resulting from circumstances
such as wind, fire and accidents provided expansion of the structure’s size is
not requested. This provision shall not apply to flood damage or those
structures otherwise regulated by Floodplain District regulations.
   (D)    Special provision for certain feedlot conditional use permits.
Conditional use permits pursuant to §
152.113 may be issued to correct an existing erosion and/or pollution problem
if an increase in the number of animal units is not being requested. At a
minimum, submittal of an SSTS compliance inspection report shall be required
within 12 months of the issuance of the permit.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.123 WASTE DISPOSAL.
   No rubbish, trash, garbage, awful or putrescible matter shall be deposited
into any public water or into any watercourse leading to a public water.
Sanitary landfills or other types of solid waste disposal are hereby prohibited
within land areas designated as shoreland.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.124 VEGETATION ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Vegetation alteration necessary for the construction of structures and
sewage treatment systems and the construction of roads and parking areas
regulated by §
152.117 of this chapter are exempt from the vegetation alteration standards
that follow.
   (B)   Removal or alteration of vegetation, except for agricultural uses as
regulated in §
152.112, is allowed subject to the following standards:
      (1)   Intensive vegetation clearing within the shore and bluff impact
zones and on steep slopes is not allowed.
      (2)   In shore and bluff impact zones and on steep slopes, limited
clearing of trees and shrubs and cutting, pruning, and trimming of trees is
allowed to provide a view to the water from the principal dwelling site and to
accommodate the placement of stairways and landings, picnic areas, access
paths, livestock water areas, beach and watercraft access areas, and permitted
water-oriented accessory structures or facilities, provided that:
         (a)   The screening of structures, vehicles, or their facilities as
viewed from the water, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, is not
substantially reduced;
         (b)   The existing shading of water surfaces is preserved along
rivers.
      (3)   The removal of trees, limbs, or branches that are dead, diseased,
or pose safety hazards as well as the removal of any noxious weeds is allowed
in all shoreland, bluff and steep slope areas.
      (4)   Fertilizer and pesticide runoff into surface waters must be
minimized through use of vegetation, topography or both.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.125 VEGETATION REMOVAL PROHIBITED.
   In all shoreland areas the removal of natural vegetation is prohibited
within 50 feet of the ordinary high water level except that a strip not to
exceed 12 feet in width may be clear cut to the water’s edge to afford access
to the water.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.126 GRADING AND FILLING.
   (A)   Grading and filling activities must comply with the provisions of this
section except for the construction of public roads and parking areas if
consistent with §
152.118 of this chapter.
   (B)   Permit requirements. In all shoreland areas any grading, filling or
alteration of the topography which is not already covered under the provisions
of a building, conditional use, variance or other permit shall require the
issuance of an administrative use permit pursuant to §
152.074 for the following alterations:
      (1)   The movement of more than ten cubic yards of material on slopes
greater than 18% or within shore or bluff impact zones.
      (2)   The movement of more than 50 cubic yards of material outside of
slopes greater than 18%, shore and bluff impact zones.
   (C)   Erosion and sediment control permit. Disturbing activities within the
shoreland area may also require an erosion and sediment control permit from the
Carver County Watershed Management Organization or the Minnehaha Creek
Watershed District.
   (D)   Grading or filling of any wetland must meet or exceed the wetland
protection standards under Minn. Rules Chapter 8420 and any other permits,
reviews, or approvals by other local, state, or federal agencies such as
watershed districts, the DNR or US Army Corps of Engineers;
   (E)   Land alterations must be designed and implemented to minimize the
amount of erosion and sediment from entering surface waters during and after
construction consistently by:
      (1)   Limiting the amount and time of bare ground exposure;
      (2)   Using temporary ground covers such as mulches or similar materials;
      (3)   Establishing permanent vegetation cover as soon as possible;
      (4)   Using sediment traps, vegetated buffer strips or other appropriate
techniques;
      (5)   Stabilizing altered areas to acceptable erosion control standards
consistent with the field office technical guides of the soil and water
conservation district;
      (6)   Not placing fill or excavated material in a manner that creates
unstable slopes. Plans to place fill or excavated material on steep slopes must
be reviewed by qualified professionals for continued slope stability and must
not create finished slopes of 30% or greater;
      (7)   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in bluff impact
zones;
      (8)   Any alterations below the ordinary high water level of public
waters must first be authorized by the Commissioner under M.S. Chapter 103G;
      (9)   Alterations of topography are only allowed if they are accessory to
permitted or conditional uses and do not adversely affect adjacent or nearby
properties; and
      (10)   Placement of natural rock riprap, including associated grading of
the shoreline and placement of a filter blanket, is permitted if:
         (a)   The finished slope does not exceed three feet horizontal to one-
foot vertical;
         (b)   The landward extent of the riprap is within ten feet of the
ordinary high water level; and
         (c)   The height of the riprap above the ordinary high water level
does not exceed three feet (see Figure 10).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a8d38408183f4b9976deef69493e99a252875466/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2408.png]
 
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.127 ALTERATIONS AT OR BELOW OHW.
   Any alterations below the ordinary high water level of public waters must
first be authorized by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.128 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC WATER.
   Excavations of shorelands where the intended purpose is to create a
connection to a public water shall require the issuance of a conditional use
permit. Granting of the permit shall be contingent upon issuance of a public
waters work permit by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.129 STEEP SLOPES/BLUFF IMPACT ZONE.
   (A)   Plans to place fill or to excavate material on slopes over 18% must be
reviewed by qualified professionals for continued slope stability and must not
create finished slopes of 30% or greater. Placement of fill or excavation of
material must not be conducted in a manner that creates an unstable slope and
fill must not be placed in bluff impact zones.
   (B)   Bluff impact zones. Structures, impervious surfaces, and accessory
facilities, except stairways and landings, must not be placed within bluff
impact zones.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.130 WETLAND EVALUATION.
   (A)   If the proposal entails grading or filling in any type 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
7 or 8 wetland, the county may require that the applicant have a professional
evaluate (at the applicant’s expense) how extensively the proposed activity
would affect the following functional qualities of the wetland:
      (1)   Sediment and pollutant trapping and retention;
      (2)   Storage of surface runoff to prevent or reduce flood damage;
      (3)   Fish and wildlife habitat;
      (4)   Recreational use;
      (5)   Shoreline or bank stabilization; and
      (6)   Noteworthiness, including special qualities such as historic
significance, critical habitat for endangered plants and animals, and the like.
   (B)   The evaluation must include a determination of whether the wetland
alteration being proposed requires permits, reviews, or approvals by other
local, state, or federal agencies such as a watershed district, the Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources, or the United States Army Corps of Engineers.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.131 EROSION CONTROL.
   Planning for erosion control must be incorporated as conditions on permits
issued in the Shoreland District. Erosion control plans should demonstrate what
measures will be taken to prevent erosion on the construction site and should
be consistent with the field office technical guides of the local soil and
water conservation districts and the United States Soil Conservation Service
and County Water Management Rules if applicable.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02)
§ 152.131.1 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   General standards.
      (1)   When possible, existing natural drainageways, and vegetated soil
surfaces must be used to convey, store, filter, and retain stormwater runoff
before discharge to public waters.
      (2)   Development must be planned and conducted in a manner that will
minimize the extent of disturbed areas, runoff velocities, erosion potential,
and reduce and delay runoff volumes. Disturbed areas must be stabilized as soon
as possible, and appropriate facilities or methods used to retain sediment on
the site.
      (3)   When development density, topography, soils, and vegetation are not
sufficient to adequately handle stormwater runoff, constructed facilities such
as settling basins, skimming devices, dikes, waterways, ponds and infiltration
may be used. Preference must be given to surface drainage, vegetation, and
infiltration rather than buried pipes and man-made materials and facilities.
   (B)   Specific standards.
      (1)   Impervious surfaces of lots must not exceed 25% of the lot area.
      (2)   When constructed facilities are used for stormwater management,
documentation must be provided by a qualified individual that they are designed
and installed consistent with the field office technical guide of the local
soil and water conservation district or the Minnesota Stormwater Manual, as
applicable.
      (3)   New constructed stormwater outfalls to public waters must be
consistent with Minn. Rules Part 6115.0231.
(Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.132 SIGNS WITHIN THE SHORE IMPACT ZONE.
   Uses that depend on patrons arriving by watercraft may use signs and
lighting provided that:
   (A)   Signs placed in or on public waters must only convey directional
information or safety messages and may only be placed by a public authority or
under a permit issued by the County Sheriff; and
   (B)   Signs placed within the shore impact zone must be:
   (C)   Other lighting may be located within the shore impact zone or over
public waters if it is used to illuminate potential safety hazards and is
shielded or otherwise directed to prevent direct illumination across public
waters. This does not preclude use of navigational lights.
   (D)   Signs must only convey the location and name of the establishment and
the general types of goods or services available. The signs must not contain
other detailed information such as product brands and prices, must not be
located higher than 10 feet above the ground, and must not exceed 32 square
feet in size.
   (E)   Signs must be minimum size necessary to convey the needed information.
   (F)   If illuminated by artificial lights, the lights must be shielded or
directed to prevent illumination out across public waters.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.133 SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC SITES.
   No structure may be placed on a significant historic site in a manner that
affects the values of the site unless adequate information about the site has
been removed and documented in a public repository.
(Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.134 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Permits.
      (1)   A permit is required for the construction of buildings or building
additions (including construction of decks and signs), the installation and/or
alteration of sewage treatment systems, and those grading and filling
activities not exempted by §
152.132 of this chapter.
      (2)   A certificate of compliance, consistent with Minn. Rules Part
7082.0700, subpart 3, is required whenever a permit or variance of any type is
required for any improvement on or use of the property. A sewage treatment
system shall be considered compliant if the only deficiency is the system's
improper setback from the ordinary high water level.
   (B)   Application materials. Application for permits and other zoning
applications such as variances shall be made to the Department can evaluate how
the application complies with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Certificate of zoning compliance. The Department shall issue a
certificate of zoning compliance for each activity requiring a permit as
specified in §
152.191 of this chapter. This certificate will specify that the use of land
conforms to the requirements of this chapter. Any use, arrangement, or
construction at variance with that authorized by permit shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter and shall be punishable as provided in §
152.155 of this chapter.
   (D)   Variances. Variances may only be granted in accordance with §
152.153 and are subject to the following:
      (1)   A variance may not circumvent the general purposes and intent of
this chapter; and
      (2)   For properties with existing sewage treatment systems, a
certificate of compliance, consistent with Minn. Rules Part 7082.0700, subpart
3, is required for variance approval. A sewage treatment system shall be
considered compliant if the only deficiency is the system's improper setback
from the ordinary high water level.
   (E)   Conditional uses. All conditional uses in the shoreland area are
subject to a thorough evaluation of the waterbody and the topographic,
vegetation, and soil conditions to ensure:
      (1)   The prevention of soil erosion or other possible pollution of
public waters, both during and after construction;
      (2)   The visibility of structures and other facilities as viewed from
public waters is limited;
      (3)   There is adequate water supply and on-site sewage treatment; and
      (4)   The types, uses, and numbers of watercraft that the project will
generate are compatible in relation to the suitability of public waters to
safely accommodate these watercrafts.
   (F)   Mitigation.
      (1)   In evaluating all variance, conditional use, zoning and building
permit applications, the zoning authority shall require the property owner to
address the following conditions, when related to and proportional to the
impact, to meet the purpose of this chapter, to protect adjacent properties and
the public interest:
         (a)   Advanced storm water runoff management treatment;
         (b)   Reducing impervious surfaces;
         (c)   Increasing setbacks from the ordinary high water level;
         (d)   Restoration of wetlands;
         (e)   Limiting vegetation removal and/or riparian vegetation
restoration;
         (f)   Provisions for the location, design, and use of structures,
sewage treatment systems, water supply systems, watercraft launching and
docking areas, and parking areas; and
         (g)   Other conditions the zoning authority deems necessary.
      (2)   In evaluating plans to construct sewage treatment systems, roads,
driveways, structures, or other improvements on steep slopes, conditions to
prevent erosion and to preserve existing vegetation screening of structures,
vehicles, and other facilities as viewed from the surface of public waters
assuming summer, leaf-on vegetation shall be attached to permits.
   (G)   Notifications to the Department of Natural Resources.
      (1)   All amendments to this section must be submitted to the Department
of Natural Resources for review and approval for compliance with the statewide
shoreland management rules. Carver County will submit the proposed ordinance
amendments to the Commissioner or the Commissioner's designated representative
at least 30 days before any scheduled public hearings.
      (2)   All notices of public hearings to consider variances, ordinance
amendments, or conditional uses under shoreland management controls must be
sent to the Commissioner or the Commissioner's designated representative at
least ten days before the hearings.
      (3)   Notices of hearings to consider proposed subdivisions/plats must
include copies of the subdivision/plat.
      (4)   All approved ordinance amendments and subdivisions/plats, and final
decisions approving variances or conditional uses under local shoreland
management controls must be sent to the Commissioner or the Commissioner's
designated representative and postmarked within ten days of final action. When
a variance is approved after the Department of Natural Resources has formally
recommended denial in the hearing record, the notification of the approved
variance shall also include the summary of the public record/testimony and the
findings of facts and conclusions which supported the issuance of the variance.
      (5)   Any request to change the shoreland management classification of
public waters within Carver County must be sent to the Commissioner or the
Commissioner's designated representative for approval and must include a
resolution and supporting data as required by Minn. Rules Part 6120.3000,
subpart 4.
      (6)   Any request to reduce the boundaries of shorelands of public waters
within Carver County must be sent to the Commissioner or the Commissioner's
designated representative for approval and must include a resolution and
supporting data. The boundaries of shorelands may be reduced when the shoreland
of water bodies with different classifications overlap. In these cases, the
topographic divide between the water bodies shall be used for adjusting the
boundaries.
   (H)   Mandatory EAW. An environmental assessment worksheet consistent with
Minn. Rules Chapter 4410 must be prepared for projects meeting the thresholds
of Minn. Rules Part 4410.4300, subparts 19a, 20a, 25, 27, 28, 29, and 36a.
(Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21; Am. Ord. 108-2024, passed 11-19-24)
§ 152.135 NONCONFORMITIES.
   (A)   All legally established nonconformities as of the date of this
ordinance may continue, but will be managed according to M.S. §394.36, subd. 5
and other regulations of this county for alterations and additions; repair
after damage; discontinuance of use; and intensification of use.
   (B)   Construction on nonconforming lots of record is subject to the
following criteria:
      (1)   Lots of record in the Office of the County Recorder on the date of
July 1, 1974, that do not meet the minimum lot size and width standards
specified by §
152.033 may be allowed as building sites without variance from lot size
requirements provided the use is permitted in the zoning district, the lot has
been in separate ownership from abutting lands at all times since it became
substandard, was created compliant with official controls in effect at the
time, and sewage treatment and setback requirements of this chapter are met.
      (2)   A variance from setback requirements must be obtained before any
use, sewage treatment system, or building permit is issued for a lot. In
evaluating the variance, the Board of Adjustment shall consider sewage
treatment and water supply capabilities or constraints of the lot and shall
deny the variance if adequate facilities cannot be provided.
      (3)   If, in a group of two or more contiguous lots under the same owner,
any individual lot does not meet the minimum lot size and width standards
specified by §
152.033, the lot must not be considered a separate parcel of land for the
purposes of sale or development. The lot must be combined with the one or more
contiguous lots so they equal one or more parcels of land, each meeting the
minimum lot size and width standards as much as possible.
   (C)   Additions/expansions to nonconforming structures. All additions or
expansions to the outside dimensions of an existing nonconforming structure
must meet the setback and other requirements of §
152.034. Any deviation from these requirements must be authorized by a
variance.
(Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 152.143 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the state has, in M.S.
Chapters 103F and 394, delegated the responsibility to local government units
to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the Board of
Commissioners does ordain as follows.
   (B)   Purpose.
      (1)   This subchapter regulates development in the flood hazard areas of
the unincorporated areas of the county. These flood hazard areas are subject to
periodic inundation, which may result in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base. It is the purpose of this subchapter to promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare by minimizing these losses and disruptions.
      (2)   National Flood Insurance Program compliance. This subchapter is
adopted to comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program, codified as 44 C.F.R. §§ 59 through 78, as amended, so as to
maintain the community's eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program.
      (3)   This chapter is also intended to preserve the natural
characteristics and functions of watercourses and floodplains in order to
moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve water quality, reduce soil
erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, provide recreational
opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits, and enhance community and economic
development.
(Ord. 88-2018, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.144 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which subchapter applies. This subchapter applies to all
lands within the jurisdiction of the county within the boundaries of the
Floodway, Flood Fringe, and General Floodplain Districts. The boundaries of
these districts are determined by scaling distances on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map, or as modified in accordance with §
152.145(B).
      (1)   The Floodway, Flood Fringe, and General Floodplain Districts are
overlay districts that are superimposed on all existing zoning districts. The
standards imposed in the overlay districts are in addition to any other
requirements in this chapter. In case of a conflict, the more restrictive
standards will apply.
      (2)   Where a conflict exists between the floodplain limits illustrated
on the official floodplain maps and actual field conditions, the flood
elevations shall be the governing factor in locating the regulatory floodplain
limits.
      (3)   Persons contesting the location of the district boundaries will be
given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the Board of Adjustment
and to submit technical evidence.
   (B)   Incorporation of maps by reference. See §
152.006 for incorporation of maps by reference.
   (C)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended that this
subchapter repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
other private agreements. However, where this subchapter imposes greater
restrictions, the provisions of this subchapter prevail. All other provisions
of this chapter inconsistent with this subchapter are hereby repealed to the
extent of the inconsistency only.
   (D)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. This subchapter does not imply
that areas outside the floodplain districts or land uses permitted within such
districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter does not
create liability on the part of the county or its officers or employees for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this subchapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
   (E)   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
subchapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of law, the
remainder of this subchapter shall not be affected and shall remain in full
force.
(Ord. 88-2018, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.145 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Districts.
      (1)   Floodway District. The Floodway District includes those areas
within Zone AE delineated within floodway areas as shown on the Flood Insurance
Rate Maps adopted in §
152.006. For lakes, wetlands, and other basins, the Floodway District also
includes those areas that are at or below the ordinary high water level as
defined in M.S. § 103G.005, subd. 14.
      (2)   Flood Fringe District. The Flood Fringe District includes areas
within Zone AE on the Flood Insurance Rate Map adopted in §
152.006, but located outside of the floodway. For lakes, wetlands, and other
basins, the Flood Fringe District also includes areas mapped in Zones A or AE,
which are below the 1% annual chance (100 year) flood elevation, but above the
ordinary high water level as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, subd. 14.
      (3)   General Floodplain District. The General Floodplain District shall
include those areas designated as Floodplain Overlay District on the Carver
County Zoning Map and designated Zone A on the Flood Insurance Rate Map for the
county, as adopted in §
152.006(B).
   (B)   Applicability. Where Floodway and Flood Fringe Districts are
delineated on the floodplain maps, the standards in §§
152.147 or
152.148 will apply, depending on the location of a property. Any watercourses
identified as Zone A on the floodplain maps adopted in §
152.144(B) are considered to fall within the General Floodplain District.
Within the General Floodplain District, the Floodway District standards in §
152.147 apply unless the floodway boundary is determined, according to the
process outlined in §
152.149(B). Areas in and adjoining lakes, wetlands, and other basins shall be
designated as either Floodway or Flood Fringe based on the procedures described
in §§
152.145(A)(1) and (A)(2).
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 88-2018,
passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.146 REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL FLOODPLAIN DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Permit required. A permit must be obtained from the Zoning
Administrator to verify if a development meets all applicable standards
outlined in this chapter prior to conducting the following activities:
      (1)   The erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation, or alteration
of any building, structure, or portion thereof. Normal maintenance and repair
also requires a permit if such work, separately or in conjunction with other
planned work, constitutes a substantial improvement as defined in this chapter;
      (2)   The construction of a dam, on-site septic system, or any fence not
meeting the definition of farm fence, as defined;
      (3)   The change or extension of a nonconforming use;
      (4)   The repair of a structure that has been damaged by flood, fire,
tornado, or any other source;
      (5)   The placement of fill, excavation of materials, or the storage of
materials or equipment within the floodplain;
      (6)   Relocation or alteration of a watercourse (including new or
replacement culverts and bridges), unless a public waters work permit has been
applied for; and
      (7)   Any other type of development as defined in this chapter.
   (B)   Minimum development standards. All new construction and substantial
improvements must be:
      (1)   Designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   Constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage;
      (3)   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
and
      (4)   Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, ductwork,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are
designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding.
   (C)   Flood capacity. Floodplain developments must not adversely affect the
hydraulic capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary
watercourse or drainage system.
   (D)   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of flooding,
flammable, explosive, or potentially injurious to human, animal, or plant life
is prohibited.
   (E)   Critical facilities, as defined, are to be located so that the lowest
floor is not less than two feet above the regional flood elevation, or the 500-
year flood elevation, whichever is higher.
(Ord. 88-2018, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.147 FLOODWAY DISTRICT (FW).
   (A)   Permitted uses. The following uses, subject to the standards set forth
in §
152.147(B) are permitted uses if otherwise allowed in the underlying zoning
district or any applicable overlay district:
      (1)   General farming, pasture, grazing, farm fences, outdoor plant
nurseries, horticulture, truck farming, forestry, sod farming, and wild crop
harvesting;
      (2)   Industrial-commercial loading areas, parking areas, and airport
landing strips;
      (3)   Open space uses, including, but not limited to, private and public
golf courses, tennis courts, driving ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds,
boat launching ramps, swimming areas, parks, wildlife and nature preserves,
game farms, fish hatcheries, shooting preserves, target ranges, trap and skeet
ranges, hunting and fishing areas, and single or multiple purpose recreational
trails;
      (4)   Residential yards, lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play areas;
and
      (5)   Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines and
pipelines, provided that the Department of Natural Resources’ Area Hydrologist
is notified at least ten days prior to issuance of any permit.
   (B)   Standards for floodway permitted uses.
      (1)   The use shall have a low flood damage potential.
      (2)   The use shall not obstruct flood flows or involve structures, fill,
obstructions, excavations or storage of materials or equipment. The use must
not cause any increase in flood damages, nor any increase in flood elevations
in areas where a floodway has been established, as certified by a registered
professional engineer.
      (3)   Any facility that will be used by employees or the general public
must be designed with a flood warning system that provides adequate time for
evacuation if the area is inundated to a depth and velocity such that the depth
(in feet) multiplied by the velocity (in feet per second) would exceed a
product of four upon occurrence of the regional (1% chance) flood.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed as conditional
uses following the standards and procedures set forth in §
152.153 (D) and further subject to the standards set forth in division (D) of
this section, if otherwise allowed in the underlying zoning district.
      (1)   Structures accessory to the primary uses listed in division (A)
above and the primary uses listed below;
      (2)   Grading, extraction, fill, and storage of soil, sand, gravel, and
other materials;
      (3)   Marinas, boat rentals, permanent docks, piers, wharves, water
control structures, and navigational facilities;
      (4)   Storage yards for equipment, machinery, or materials;
      (5)   Fences that have the potential to obstruct flood flows;
      (6)   Structural works for flood control such as levees, dikes and
floodwalls constructed to any height where the intent is to protect individual
structures and levees or dikes where the intent is to protect agricultural
crops for a frequency flood event equal to or less than the ten-year frequency
flood event.
   (D)   Standards for floodway conditional uses.
      (1)   A conditional use must not cause any increase in flood damages, nor
any increase in flood elevations in areas where a floodway has been
established, as certified by a registered professional engineer.
      (2)   Fill; storage of material and equipment.
         (a)    Fill, dredge spoil and all other similar materials deposited or
stored in the floodplain shall be protected from erosion by vegetative cover,
mulching, riprap or other acceptable method. Permanent sand and gravel
operations and similar uses must be covered by a long-term site development
plan.
         (b)   Temporary placement of fill, other materials, or equipment which
would cause an increase to the stage of the 1% chance or regional flood may
only be allowed after the County Board has approved an appropriate plan which
assures the removal of the materials from the floodway based upon the flood
warning time available. The conditional use permit must be title registered
with the property in the Office of the County Recorder.
      (3)   Structural works for flood control that will change the course,
current or cross- section of protected wetlands or public waters shall be
subject to the provisions of M.S. § 103G.245, as it may be amended from time to
time.
      (4)   A levee, dike or floodwall constructed in the floodway shall not
cause an increase to the 1% chance or regional flood and the technical analysis
must assume equal conveyance or storage loss on both sides of a stream.
      (5)   Accessory structures. Accessory structures, as identified in
division (C)(1), may be permitted provided that:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be designed for human habitation.
         (b)   Accessory structures will have a low flood damage potential.
         (c)   Accessory structures, if permitted, shall be constructed and
placed on the building site so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the flow
of flood waters.
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be elevated on fill or structurally
dry flood proofed and watertight to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
Certifications consistent with §
152.153(B)(2) shall be required.
         (e)   As an alternative, an accessory structure may be floodproofed in
a way to accommodate internal flooding. To allow for the equalization of
hydrostatic pressure, there shall be a minimum of two openings on at least two
sides of the structure and the bottom of all openings shall be no higher than
one foot above grade. The openings shall have a minimum net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding, have a net area of not less than one square inch for every square
foot of enclosed area subject to flooding, and shall allow automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters without human intervention. A floodproofing certificate
consistent with §
152.153(B)(2) shall be required.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 88-2018, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.148 FLOOD FRINGE DISTRICT (FF).
   (A)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses shall be those uses of land or
structures listed as permitted uses in the underlying zoning use district. If
no pre-existing, underlying zoning use districts exist, then any residential or
non residential structure or use of a structure or land shall be a permitted
use provided the use does not constitute a public nuisance.
   (B)   Standards for flood fringe permitted uses.
      (1)   All structures, including accessory structures, must be elevated on
fill so that the lowest floor, as defined, is at or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation. The finished fill elevation for structures shall be no
lower than one foot below the regulatory flood protection elevation and the
fill shall extend at that elevation at least 15 feet beyond the outside limits
of the structure erected thereon. Elevations must be certified by a registered
professional engineer, land surveyor, or other qualified person designated by
the community.
      (2)   Accessory structures. As an alternative to the fill requirements of
§ 154.148(B)(1), structures accessory to the uses identified in division (A)
may be designed to accommodate the inundation of floodwaters, meeting the
following provisions, as appropriate:
         (a)   The accessory structure constitutes a minimal investment and
satisfies the development requirements in §
152.146(B).
         (b)   Any enclosed accessory structure shall not exceed 576 square
feet in size, and only be used for parking and storage. Any such structure
shall be designed and certified by a registered professional engineer, or be
designed in accordance with the following floodproofing standards: to allow for
the equalization of hydrostatic pressure, there shall be a minimum of two
openings on at least two sides of the structure and the bottom of all openings
shall be no higher than one foot above grade. The openings shall have a minimum
net area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed
area subject to flooding, having a net area of not less than one square inch
for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding, and shall allow
automatic entry and exit of floodwaters without human intervention.
      (3)   The cumulative placement of fill or similar material on a parcel
must not exceed 1,000 cubic yards, unless the fill is specifically intended to
elevate a structure in accordance with division (B) of this section, or if
allowed as a conditional use under division (C).
      (4)   All service utilities, including ductwork, must be elevated or
watertight to prevent infiltration of floodwaters.
      (5)   All fill must be properly compacted and the slopes must be properly
protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover, or other acceptable method.
      (6)   All new principal structures must have vehicular access at or above
an elevation not more than two feet below the regulatory flood protection
elevation, or must have a flood warning/emergency evacuation plan acceptable to
the Department.
      (7)   Accessory uses such as yards, railroad tracks, and parking lots may
be at an elevation lower than the regulatory flood protection elevation.
However, any facilities used by employees or the general public must be
designed with a flood warning system that provides adequate time for evacuation
if the area is inundated to a depth and velocity such that the depth (in feet)
multiplied by the velocity (in feet per second) would exceed a product of four
upon occurrence of the regional (1% chance) flood.
      (8)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles must meet the
standards of §
152.152 of this chapter.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed as conditional
uses following the standards and procedures set forth in §
152.153 (D) and further subject to the standards set forth in division (B), if
otherwise allowed in the underlying zoning district(s).
      (1)   The placement of floodproofed nonresidential basements below the
regulatory flood protection elevation. Residential basements are not allowed
below the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (2)   The cumulative placement of more than 1,000 cubic yards of fill
when the fill is not being used to elevate a structure in accordance with
division (B)(1).
      (3)   The use of methods other than fill to elevate structures above the
regulatory flood protection elevation. This includes the use of stilts,
pilings, filled stem walls, or above-grade, internally flooded enclosed areas
such as crawl spaces or tuck under garages, meeting the standards in division
(D)(4).
   (D)   Standards for flood fringe conditional uses.
      (1)   The standards for permitted uses in the flood fringe, listed in
divisions (B)(4) through (8) apply to all conditional uses.
      (2)   All areas of nonresidential structures, including basements, to be
placed below the regulatory flood protection elevation must be structurally dry
floodproofed, which requires making the structure watertight with the walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the
effects of buoyancy. A floodproofing certification consistent with §
152.153(B)(2) shall be required.
      (3)   The placement of more than 1,000 cubic yards of fill or other
similar material on a parcel (other than for the purpose of elevating a
structure to the regulatory flood protection elevation) must comply with an
approved erosion/sedimentation control plan.
         (a)   The plan must clearly specify methods to be used to stabilize
the fill on site for a flood event at a minimum of the regional (1% chance)
flood event.
         (b)   The plan must be prepared and certified by a registered
professional engineer or other qualified individual acceptable to the County
Board.
         (c)   The plan may incorporate alternative procedures for removal of
the material from the floodplain if adequate flood warning time exists.
      (4)   (a)   Alternative elevation methods other than the use of fill may
be utilized to elevate a structure’s lowest floor above the regulatory flood
protection elevation. The base or floor of an enclosed area shall be considered
above-grade and not a structure’s basement or lowest floor if:
            1.   The enclosed area is above-grade on at least one side of the
structure;
            2.   It is designed to internally flood; and
            3.   It is used solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
storage.
         (b)   The above-noted alternative elevation methods are subject to the
following additional standards:
            1.   Above-grade, fully enclosed areas such as crawl spaces or tuck
under garages must be designed to internally flood include a minimum of two
openings on at least two sides of the structure. The bottom of all openings
shall be no higher than one foot above grade, and have a minimum net area of
not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding unless a registered professional engineer or architect certifies that
a smaller net area would suffice.
            2.   Floodproofing certifications consistent with §
152.153(B)(2) shall be required. The structure shall be subject to a deed-
restricted non-conversion agreement with the issuance of any permit.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 88-2018, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.149 GENERAL FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT (GF).
   (A)   Permissible uses.
      (1)   The uses listed in §
152.147(A) shall be permitted uses, Floodway District uses are permitted uses.
      (2)   All other uses shall be subject to the floodway/flood fringe
evaluation criteria pursuant to division (B) below. Section
152.147 shall apply if the proposed use is in the Floodway District and §
152.148 shall apply if the proposed use is determined to be in the Flood Fringe
District.
   (B)   Procedures for determining floodway boundaries and regional flood
elevations.
      (1)   Detailed study. Developments greater than 50 lots or five acres, or
as requested by the Zoning Administrator, shall be subject to a detailed study
to determine the regulatory flood protection elevation and the limits of the
Floodway District. The determination of the floodway and flood fringe must be
consistent with accepted hydrological and hydraulic engineering standards, and
must include the following components, as applicable:
         (a)   Estimate the peak discharge of the regional (1% chance) flood;
         (b)   Calculate the water surface profile of the regional flood based
upon a hydraulic analysis of the stream channel and overbank areas;
         (c)   Compute the floodway necessary to convey or store the regional
flood without increasing flood stages more than one-half-foot. A lesser stage
increase than one-half-foot shall be required if, as a result of the additional
stage increase, increased flood damages would result. An equal degree of
encroachment on both sides of the stream within the reach shall be assumed in
computing floodway boundaries, unless development or geographic features
warrant other analysis, as approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
      (2)   Alternative methods. Provided no detailed study is available, an
applicant must identify a base flood elevation, at minimum, to determine the
boundaries of the special flood hazard area. The applicant shall obtain and
utilize best available data to determine the regional flood elevation and
floodway boundaries from a state, federal, or other source. If no such data
exists, the applicant may determine the base flood elevation and floodway
limits through other accepted engineering practices. Any such method shall
assume a one-half-foot stage increase to accommodate for future floodway
determination.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator will review the submitted information and
assess the technical evaluation and the recommended Floodway and/or Flood
Fringe District boundary. The assessment must include the cumulative effects of
previous floodway encroachments. The Zoning Administrator may seek technical
assistance from an engineer or other expert person or agency, including the
Department of Natural Resources. Based on this assessment, the Zoning
Administrator may approve or deny the application.
      (4)   Once the Floodway and Flood Fringe District boundaries have been
determined, the Zoning Administrator must process the permit application
consistent with the applicable provisions of §§
152.147 and
152.148.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 88-2018,
passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.150 SUBDIVISION STANDARDS.
   No land may be subdivided which is unsuitable for reasons of flooding or
inadequate drainage, water supply, or sewage treatment facilities. Manufactured
home parks and recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds are considered
subdivisions under this chapter.
   (A)   All lots within the floodplain districts must be able to contain a
building site outside of the Floodway District at or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation.
   (B)   All subdivisions must have road access both to the subdivision and to
the individual building sites no lower than two feet below the regulatory flood
protection elevation, unless a flood warning emergency plan for the safe
evacuation of all vehicles and people during the regional (1% chance) flood has
been approved by the Department or County Board. The plan must be prepared by a
registered engineer or other qualified individual, and must demonstrate that
adequate time and personnel exist to carry out the evacuation.
   (C)   For all subdivisions in the Floodplain, the Floodway, and Flood Fringe
District boundaries, the regulatory flood protection elevation and the required
elevation of all access roads must be clearly labeled on all required
subdivision drawings and platting documents.
   (D)   In the General Floodplain District, applicants must provide the
information required in §
152.149(B) to determine the regional flood elevation, the Floodway and Flood
Fringe District boundaries, and the regulatory flood protection elevation for
the subdivision site.
   (E)   Subdivision proposals must be reviewed to assure that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage within the flood
prone area;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage; and
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure of flood hazard.
(Ord. 88-2018, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.151 UTILITIES, RAILROADS, ROADS, AND BRIDGES.
   (A)   Public utilities. All public utilities and facilities such as gas,
electrical, sewer, and water supply systems to be located in the floodplain
must be floodproofed in accordance with the State Building Code or elevated to
the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   (B)   Public transportation facilities. Railroad tracks, roads, and bridges
to be located within the floodplain must comply with §§
152.147 and
152.148. These transportation facilities must be elevated to the regulatory
flood protection elevation where failure or interruption of these facilities
would result in danger to the public health or safety or where such facilities
are essential to the orderly functioning of the area. Minor or auxiliary roads
or railroads may be constructed at a lower elevation where failure or
interruption of transportation services would not endanger the public health or
safety.
   (C)   On-site water supply and sewage treatment systems. Where public
utilities are not provided, on-site water supply systems must be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems, and are
subject to the provisions in Minn. Rules Part 4725.4350, as amended; and new or
replacement on-site sewage treatment systems must be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from the
systems into flood waters, they must not be subject to impairment or
contamination during times of flooding, and are subject to the provisions in
Minn. Rules Part 7080.2270, as amended.
(Ord. 88-2018, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.152 MANUFACTURED HOMES AND RECREATIONAL CAMPING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Manufactured homes. Manufactured homes and manufactured home parks are
subject to applicable standards for each floodplain district. In addition:
      (1)   New and replacement manufactured homes must be elevated in
compliance with Section §
152.148 of this chapter and must be securely anchored to a system that resists
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include,
but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
This requirement is in addition to applicable state or local anchoring
requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (2)   New manufactured home parks and expansions to existing manufactured
home parks must meet the appropriate standards for subdivisions in §
152.150. New or replacement manufactured homes in existing manufactured home
parks must meet the vehicular access requirements for subdivisions in §
152.150(B).
   (B)   Recreational camping vehicles. New recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds and expansions to existing recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds are prohibited in any floodplain district. Recreational vehicles
placed in existing recreational vehicle parks, campgrounds, or lots of record
in the floodplain must either:
      (1)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes in division (A); or
      (2)   Be travel ready, meeting the following criteria:
         (a)   The vehicle must have a current license required for highway
use;
         (b)   The vehicle must be highway ready, meaning on wheels or the
internal jacking system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities commonly used in campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks;
         (c)   No permanent structural type additions may be attached to the
vehicle; and
         (d)   Accessory structures may be permitted in the Flood Fringe
District, provided that they constitute a minimal investment, do not hinder the
removal of the vehicle should flooding occur, and meet the standards outlined
in §§
152.146(B) and
152.148(B).
(Ord. 88-2018, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.153 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Duties. A Zoning Administrator or other official designated by the
County Board must administer and enforce this subchapter.
   (B)   Permit application requirements.
      (1)   Application for permit. Permit applications must be submitted to
the Zoning Administrator on forms provided by the Zoning Administrator. The
permit application must include the following as applicable:
         (a)   A site plan showing all pertinent dimensions, existing or
proposed buildings, structures, and significant natural features having an
influence on the permit;
         (b)   Location of fill or storage of materials in relation to the
stream channel;
         (c)   Copies of any required municipal, county, state, or federal
permits or approvals; and
         (d)   Other relevant information requested by the Zoning Administrator
as necessary to properly evaluate the permit application.
      (2)   Certification. The applicant is required to submit certification by
a registered professional engineer, registered architect, or registered land
surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were accomplished in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Floodproofing measures must be
certified by a registered professional engineer or registered architect as
being in compliance with applicable floodproofing standards in in the State
Building Code. Accessory structures designed in accordance with §
152.148(B) of this chapter are exempt from certification, provided sufficient
assurances are documented. Any development in established floodways must not
cause any increase in flood elevations or damages, as certified by a registered
professional engineer.
      (3)   Certificate of zoning compliance for a new, altered, or
nonconforming use. No building, land, or structure may be occupied or used in
any manner until a certificate of zoning compliance has been issued by the
Zoning Administrator stating that the use of the building or land conforms to
the requirements of this subchapter.
      (4)   Recordkeeping of certifications and as-built documentation. The
Zoning Administrator must maintain records in perpetuity documenting:
         (a)   All certifications referenced in division (B) as applicable; and
         (b)   Elevations complying with §
152.148(B)(1). The Zoning Administrator must also maintain a record of the
elevation to which structures and alterations to structures are constructed or
floodproofed.
      (5)   Notifications for watercourse alterations. Before authorizing any
alteration or relocation of a river or stream, the Zoning Administrator must
notify adjacent communities. If the applicant has applied for a permit to work
in public waters pursuant to M.S. § 103G.245, this will suffice as adequate
notice. A copy of the notification must also be submitted to the Chicago
Regional Office of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
      (6)   Notification to FEMA when physical changes increase or decrease
base flood elevations. As soon as is practicable, but not later than six months
after the date such supporting information becomes available, the Zoning
Administrator must notify the Chicago Regional Office of FEMA of the changes by
submitting a copy of the relevant technical or scientific data.
   (C)   Variances.
      (1)   Variance applications. An application for a variance to the
provisions of this chapter will be processed and reviewed in accordance with
applicable state statutes and §
152.215 of this code.
      (2)   Adherence to state floodplain management standards. A variance must
not allow a use that is not allowed in that district, permit a lower degree of
flood protection than the regulatory flood protection elevation for the
particular area, or permit standards lower than those required by state law.
      (3)   Additional variance criteria. The following additional variance
criteria of the Federal Emergency Management Agency must be satisfied:
         (a)   Variances must not be issued by a community within any
designated regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base
flood discharge would result;
         (b)   Variances may only be issued by a community upon:
            1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
            3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances/codes;
         (c)   Variances may only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Flood insurance notice. The Zoning Administrator must notify the
applicant for a variance that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the base or regional flood level
increases risks to life and property. Such notification must be maintained with
a record of all variance actions.
      (5)   General considerations. The community may consider the following
factors in granting variances and imposing conditions on variances and
conditional uses in floodplains:
         (a)   The potential danger to life and property due to increased flood
heights or velocities caused by encroachments;
         (b)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others;
         (c)   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems, if any, and
the ability of these systems to minimize the potential for disease,
contamination, and unsanitary conditions;
         (d)   The susceptibility of any proposed use and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (e)   The importance of the services to be provided by the proposed
use to the community;
         (f)   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location;
         (g)   The availability of viable alternative locations for the
proposed use that are not subject to flooding;
         (h)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development
and development anticipated in the foreseeable future;
         (i)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive land
use plan and floodplain management program for the area;
         (j)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles; and
         (k)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site.
      (6)   Submittal of hearing notices to the Department of Natural Resources
(DNR). The Department must submit hearing notices for proposed variances to the
DNR sufficiently in advance to provide at least ten days' notice of the
hearing. The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S. Mail to the
respective DNR area hydrologist.
      (7)   Submittal of final decisions to the DNR. A copy of all decisions
granting variances must be forwarded to the DNR within ten days of such action.
The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S. Mail to the respective DNR
area hydrologist.
      (8)   Recordkeeping. The Zoning Administrator must maintain a record of
all variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and must
report such variances in an annual or biennial report to the Administrator of
the National Flood Insurance Program, when requested by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   (D)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Administrative review. An application for a conditional use permit
under the provisions of this chapter will be processed and reviewed in
accordance with §
152.245.
      (2)   Factors used in decision making. In passing upon conditional use
applications, the County Board must consider all relevant factors specified in
other sections of this chapter, and those factors identified in division (C)
(5).
      (3)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits. In addition to the
standards identified in §§
152.147(D) and
152.148(D), the County Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
conditional use permits as it deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this
chapter. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Limitations on period of use, occupancy, and operation;
         (b)   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions; and
         (c)   Requirements for construction of channel modifications,
compensatory storage, dikes, levees, and other protective measures.
      (4)   Submittal of hearing notices to the Department of Natural Resources
(DNR). The Department must submit hearing notices for proposed conditional uses
to the DNR sufficiently in advance to provide at least ten days' notice of the
hearing. The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S. Mail to the
respective DNR area hydrologist.
      (5)   Submittal of final decisions to the DNR. A copy of all decisions
granting conditional uses must be forwarded to the DNR within ten days of such
action. The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S. Mail to the
respective DNR Area Hydrologist.
(Ord. 88-2018, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.154 NONCONFORMITIES.
   Continuance of nonconformities. A use, structure, or occupancy of land which
was lawful before the passage or amendment of this subchapter but which is not
in conformity with the provisions of this subchapter may be continued subject
to the following conditions. Historic structures, as defined in §
152.010, are subject to the provisions below.
   (A)   A nonconforming use, structure, or occupancy must not be expanded,
changed, enlarged, or altered in a way that increases its flood damage
potential or degree of obstruction to flood flows except as provided in
division (B) below. Expansion or enlargement of uses, structures, or
occupancies within the Floodway District is prohibited.
   (B)   Any addition or structural alteration to a nonconforming structure or
nonconforming use that would result in increasing its flood damage potential
must be protected to the regulatory flood protection elevation in accordance
with any of the elevation on fill or floodproofing techniques (for example, FP1
through FP4 floodproofing classifications) allowable in the State Building
Code, except as further restricted in division (D) below.
   (C)   If any nonconforming use, or any use of a nonconforming structure, is
discontinued for more than one year, any future use of the premises must
conform to this subchapter.
   (D)   If any structure experiences a substantial improvement as defined in
this chapter, then the entire structure must meet the standards of §§
152.147 or
152.148 for new structures, depending upon whether the structure is in the
Floodway or Flood Fringe District, respectively. If the current proposal,
including maintenance and repair during the previous 365 days, plus the costs
of any previous alterations and additions since the first Flood Insurance Rate
Map exceeds 50% of the market value of any nonconforming structure, the entire
structure must meet the standards of §§
152.147 or
152.148.
   (E)   If any nonconformity is substantially damaged as defined in this
chapter, it may not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter. The applicable provisions for establishing new uses or new
structures in §§
152.147 or
152.148 will apply depending upon whether the use or structure is in the
Floodway or Flood Fringe, respectively.
   (F)   If any nonconforming use or structure experiences a repetitive loss,
as defined in §
152.010, it must not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 88-2018, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.155 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Violation constitutes a misdemeanor. Violation of the provisions of
this subchapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants
of variances or conditional uses) constitute a misdemeanor and will be
punishable as defined by law.
   (B)   Other lawful action. Nothing in this subchapter restricts the county
from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation. If the responsible party does not appropriately respond to the
Zoning Administrator within the specified period of time, each additional day
that lapses will constitute an additional violation of this subchapter and will
be prosecuted accordingly.
   (C)   Enforcement. Violations of the provisions of this subchapter will be
investigated and resolved in accordance with the provisions of §
152.999. In responding to a suspected subchapter violation, the Zoning
Administrator and County Board may utilize the full array of enforcement
actions available to it including, but not limited to, prosecution and fines,
injunctions, after-the-fact permits, orders for corrective measures, or a
request to the National Flood Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance
availability to the guilty party. The county must act in good faith to enforce
these official controls and to correct subchapter violations to the extent
possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 88-2018, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.156 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)    Floodplain designation: restrictions on removal. The floodplain
designation on the official zoning map must not be removed from floodplain
areas unless it can be shown that the designation is in error or that the area
has been filled to or above the elevation of the regulatory flood protection
elevation and is contiguous to lands outside the floodplain. Special exceptions
to this rule may be permitted by the Department of Natural Resources (DNR) if
it is determined that, through other measures, lands are adequately protected
for the intended use.
   (B)   Amendments require DNR approval. All amendments to this subchapter
must be submitted to and approved by the Department of Natural Resources (DNR)
prior to adoption.
   (C)   Map revisions require ordinance/Zoning Code amendments. The floodplain
district regulations must be amended to incorporate any revisions by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency to the floodplain maps adopted in §
152.006 of this chapter.
(Ord. 88-2018, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
TRANSITION AREA OVERLAY ZONE
§ 152.160 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this overlay zoning district is to implement the policies
contained in the comprehensive plan regarding the use of land in the Transition
Policy Areas.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.161 DESIGNATION.
   The provisions of this section shall apply to those lands identified as
Transition Area on the Carver County Policy Areas Map in the comprehensive
plan.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.162 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   All land in the Transition Area Overlay Zone shall remain in the
Agricultural Zoning District with the following restrictions and requirements:
   (A)   Animal agriculture. New animal agriculture operations of 30 animal
units (AU) or more are prohibited. For the purpose of this section, a NEW
ANIMAL AGRICULTURE OPERATION shall mean ten AU or more, as defined in the
feedlot management regulations. Animal agriculture operations having 30 animal
units or more, existing as of January 2, 2002, shall not be expanded such that
there would be an increase in the number of AU documented by the operator’s
Feedlot Registration.
   (B)   Residential density. The residential density shall not exceed one
dwelling unit per quarter-quarter section (1 per 40). “1 per 40, 1 per ¼-¼”
building eligibilities and “lot of record” building eligibilities shall be
determined, assigned and managed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
      (1)   Conditional use permits allowing up to four dwellings per ¼ ¼
section are allowed provided they are compatible with the density option chosen
by the township in their chapter of the Carver County Comprehensive Plan, any
current orderly annexation agreement, and the annexing city's future land use
for the site.
      (2)   The transferring of eligibilities to parcels within the County's
Transition Area Overlay Zone, pursuant to the comprehensive plan, shall not be
permitted. The transferring of eligibilities within a transition area would be
permitted if the request conforms to the annexing city's future land use for
the site. Once the paperwork is submitted by the annexing city to the
Administrative Law Judge, the subject parcel(s) are prohibited from sending or
receiving building eligibilities.
   (C)   Administrative permits. Applications or requests for accessory uses
and structures requiring an administrative special use permit shall be referred
to an appropriate municipal official for review and comment before the permit
is approved or denied by the Department.
   (D)   Conditional use permits. Applications or requests for conditional uses
shall be referred to an appropriate municipal official for comment and
consideration as early on as possible, at a minimum, prior to the public
hearing. Conditional uses provided for in the Agriculture District should not
be permitted in transition areas if they are a significant departure from the
future land use in the city’s comprehensive plan and the use is of a nature
that it could not easily and economically be converted to the planned land use
upon urbanization.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21)
RESIDENTIAL CLUSTER DISTRICT
§ 152.175 PURPOSES OF THE DISTRICT.
   The implementation of the provisions of a previous comprehensive plan and
zoning ordinance resulted in the rezoning of several parcels of land to the
Residential Cluster District. The current plan and this chapter no longer
provide for rezoning to this district. The provisions in these sections are
intended to keep in place the ongoing provisions of the previous District
regulations.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.176 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Application. These provisions apply to those areas that were rezoned
to the Residential Cluster District prior to January 1, 2000.
   (B)   Rezoning. No additional land shall be rezoned to this district.
   (C)   Conditional use permits. All provisions of conditional use permits
issued as a result of previous rezoning to the Residential Cluster District
shall remain in effect.
   (D)   Preliminary plat, final plat. All approvals, conditions, designation
of buildable areas, approval of building lots occurring in the preliminary/
final platting process under the previous district regulations shall remain in
effect.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.177 AGRICULTURAL AREA REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations apply to those areas designated as agricultural
area in a Residential Cluster District approved under the previous regulations:
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family residences as provided in the conditional use permit
and stipulated in the covenants;
      (2)   Agriculture as provided in the “A” District.
   (B)   Conditional and interim uses. The following conditional and interim
use permits as provided in the “A” District are permitted conditional or
interim use permits in the agricultural area provided they are not prohibited
by the conditional use permit that was issued for the residential cluster: §§
152.050,
152.077,
152.079,
152.082. No other conditional or interim use permits are permitted.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Uses accessory to agriculture including roadside stand
or to any conditional use permit provided for above. If a single-family home is
permitted in the area the following as provided in §§
152.073 and
152.074.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.178 RESIDENTIAL AREA REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations apply to those areas designated as residential
area in a Residential Cluster District approved under the previous regulations:
   (A)   Permitted uses: Single-family home.
   (B)   Conditional uses: None.
   (C)   Accessory uses:
      (1)   Accessory storage structures and garages. These structures shall be
used only by the occupants of the residence. The structures may be used for:
storage of household goods, recreational vehicles and equipment, personal
vehicles, maintenance and repair of personal vehicles and equipment; a shop or
similar activity for hobby (no products or services for sale or pay or similar
remuneration); keeping of animals and appurtenant equipment and supplies; and
as otherwise regulated by this chapter. A total square footage of 2,000 square
feet is permitted in a combination of a garage and one accessory structure. No
single structure shall exceed 1,250 square feet in area. The maximum sidewall
height shall be 12 feet and the total height from the average grade shall not
exceed 17 feet. The roof and exterior shall be of the same or similar materials
as the home.
      (2)   The following accessory uses as provided in §
152.073(C) through (H), (J), (K), (L), (O), (P), (Q), §152.074(B)(3), (4), (5),
and (9)(b).
   (D)   Keeping of animals. The keeping of animals, with the exception of
dogs, cats and similar animals kept as household pets, is prohibited on any lot
in the residential area.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.179 LOT, YARD, ACCESS, AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Except as modified by the provisions of this section, the requirements shall
be those stated in §§
152.033,
152.034,
152.036, and
152.037.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.190 LAND MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT; AUTHORITY/RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The Land Management Department, hereinafter called “Department”, is
responsible to the County Board for the administration and enforcement of this
chapter. The Department may delegate administrative responsibility and
authority to town boards, in certain instances specified herein.
   (B)   The Department is authorized to perform the following functions:
      (1)   Administer and enforce this chapter, including making such rulings,
approvals or denials, and issuing such orders as necessary to administer and
enforce this chapter;
      (2)   Receive, file and forward all applications for appeals, amendments,
variances, conditional uses, interim uses, or other matters to the designated
official bodies. Receive, process, and issue permits as authorized by this
chapter;
      (3)   Conduct inspections of land, buildings, or structures at reasonable
times, determine compliance with and enforce the provisions of this chapter;
      (4)   Institute in the name of the county any appropriate actions or
proceedings to prevent, to restrain, to correct, or to abate a violation or
threatened violation;
      (5)   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter, including
but not limited to maps, amendments, variances, conditional uses,
administrative permits, building eligibilities including use and transfer
thereof;
      (6)   Shoreland standards. For shoreland standards, see the Shoreland
Overlay District regulations in §§
152.108 through
152.135;
      (7)   Floodplain standards. For floodplain standards, see the Floodplain
Overlay District regulations in §§
152.143 through
152.156;
      (8)   Perform any other administrative functions required or suggested by
the provisions of this chapter; and
      (9)   Provide and maintain a public information bureau relative to
matters arising out of this chapter.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 88-2018,
passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.191 CERTIFICATION OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Definition and purpose. Certification of zoning compliance shall
consist of the issuance, by the Department, of the various permits,
certificates, orders, exemptions, and/or variances pursuant to this chapter.
Zoning compliance shall be evidenced by the written authorization of compliance
in a form and format as determined and provided by the Department. In cases
where a building permit is required by the State Building Code, the issuance of
the permit shall be considered certification of zoning compliance authorizing
commencement of construction; final compliance with the code and this chapter
shall be evidenced by the final inspection or the certificate of occupancy if
the certificate is issued.
   (B)   Unlawful use of certification. It is unlawful to use, occupy or allow
the use for occupancy of any building or premises or both or part therefore
hereafter created, erected, changed, converted or wholly or partially altered
or enlarged in its use or structure until certification of zoning compliance
shall have been approved and/or issued in accordance with a form and format
specified by the Department.
   (C)   Certification of zoning compliance shall be required for the
following:
      (1)   Any structure subject to the State Building Code;
      (2)   Any structure or land use specifically requiring an administrative
permit, certificate of zoning compliance, conditional use permit or any other
type of certification by the Department;
      (3)   The Department may provide certification of zoning compliance for
those structures and/or land uses that do not typically require certification.
This provision applies only when requested by a landowner for his or her own
property.
   (D)   Certification of zoning compliance shall not be required for the
following:
      (1)   Permitted uses not subject to State Building Code or any other
approval by the Department;
      (2)   Permitted accessory uses not subject to State Building Code or any
other approval by the Department;
      (3)   General agricultural use of land, except structures and feedlots;
      (4)   Public road projects. Road construction, reconstruction,
maintenance and temporary uses within a public right-of-way or an appropriate
easement by a township, city, county, the state or persons engaged in a
construction project related to public transportation for a township, city,
county, or the state.
   (E)   Town board authorization. The Department may delegate to town boards
the ability to issue certificates of zoning compliance for agricultural
structures. The Department shall retain authority to issue the final approval
of certification pursuant to this provision.
   (F)   Township land use permits, which were authorized and issued pursuant
to ordinances and/or regulations adopted in accordance with M.S. Chapter 462,
may be recognized as permitted land uses pursuant to this chapter if approved
by the County Board.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 80-2015, passed 6-16-15; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 152.210 CREATION.
   The Board of Adjustment is hereby established and invested with the
authority as is hereinafter provided and as provided by M.S. §§ 394.21 through
394.37, as they may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.211 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The members of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed by the Board
of County Commissioners. There shall be at least one member from the
unincorporated areas of the county. Any elected officer of the county or
employee of the County Board shall be excluded from membership on the Board of
Adjustment.
   (B)   Number. The Board of Adjustment shall consist of seven members of
which one member shall be a member of the County Planning Commission whose term
shall coincide with the term he or she has on the County Planning Commission.
   (C)   Terms. Terms of the members of the Board of Adjustment, except for the
Planning Commission member, shall be staggered three-year terms.
   (D)   Compensation. The members of the Board of Adjustment shall serve with
compensation as the County Board may from time to time establish including
payment of expense necessary to conduct the business of the Board.
   (E)   Conflict of interest. Any question of when a particular issue involves
a conflict of interest is sufficient to disqualify a regular Board member from
voting thereon shall be decided by a majority vote of all Board members except
the member who is being challenged.
   (F)   Removal. The County Board of Commissioners may remove any members of
the Board of Adjustment for nonperformance of duty or misconduct in office and
may fill vacancies for any unexpired term.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.212 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from
its members and shall appoint a secretary who need not be a member of the
Board. It shall adopt rules for the transactions of its business and the rules
may include provisions for the giving of oaths.
   (B)   The meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of
the chairman and at other times as the Board in its rules of procedure may
specify.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.213 AUTHORITY POWER OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS.
   The Board of Adjustment shall have the exclusive power to:
   (A)   Order the issuance of variances from the terms of any official control
including restrictions placed on nonconformity;
   (B)   Hear and decide appeals from and review any order, requirement or
decision or determination made by any administrative official charged with
enforcing any ordinances adopted pursuant to the provisions of M.S. §§ 394.21
and 394.27, as they may be amended from time to time. Appeals may be taken by
any person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board, municipality or
other unit of government;
   (C)   Order the issuance of permits for buildings in the area designated for
future public use on an official map;
   (D)   Perform other duties as required by the official controls.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.214 APPEALS.
   (A)   Filing. The appeal shall be filed with the Department within 30 days
of the action that is being appealed and shall include specifically the order,
requirement, decision, or determination which is being appealed, the requested
remedy, and shall state the reasons for appeal. The Department shall prepare a
report and refer the appeal to the County Board of Adjustment for a decision.
The appeal shall be heard at a public hearing by the Board of Adjustment. The
Board shall give due notice thereof to the appellant and the officer from whom
the appeal is taken and to the public.
   (B)   Stay of action. The filing of an appeal stays all proceeding and
furtherance of the action appealed from unless the Board of Adjustment to whom
the appeal is taken certifies that by reason of the facts stated in the
certificate the stay would cause imminent peril to life or property.
   (C)   Decision. The Board of Adjustment may reverse or affirm wholly or
partly or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed
from and to that end shall have all of the powers of the officer from whom the
appeal was taken and may direct issuance of the permit. The Board’s decision
shall be by the adoption of an order. The order shall include the findings of
fact supporting the Board’s decision. The Board shall not act on an appeal in
such a fashion as to violate the comprehensive plan or violate any state or
federal law or rule. The Board shall act in such time as required to comply
with state law.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.215 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Prior to submission of a variance application, the person applying for
a variance shall submit a concept plan and meet with the Department to discuss
the application. Through the pre-application, the Department may summarize the
informational requirements and issues related to the specific variance request.
   (B)   Application. The person applying for a variance shall submit to the
Department a completed variance application stating the practical difficulty
present, and provide all other information required by the Department. The
Department shall prepare a report and refer the application to the County Board
of Adjustment for consideration.
   (C)   Public hearing. The Board of Adjustment shall hold a public hearing on
the request pursuant to §
152.285.
   (D)   Grounds for variance. The Board of Adjustment shall have the exclusive
power to order the issuance of variances from the requirements of any official
control including restrictions placed on nonconformities. Variances shall be
granted in accordance with M.S. Chapter 394, as it may be amended from time to
time, in cases where the applicant establishes that there is a practical
difficulty in the way of carrying out the strict letter of any official
control.
      (1)   A variance shall only be permitted when the following can be found
as fact:
         (a)   The variance is in harmony with the general purpose and intent
of the official control.
         (b)   The variance is consistent with the intent of the comprehensive
plan.
      (2)   In addition, a variance may be granted when the applicant
establishes a practical difficulty in complying with the official control. A
practical difficulty is established when the following items are found as fact:
         (a)   The property owner proposes to use the property in a reasonable
manner not permitted by an official control.
         (b)   The plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to
the property, not created by the landowner.
         (c)   The variance will not alter the essential character of the
locality.
         (d)   The practical difficulty includes more than economic
considerations alone.
   (E)   In consideration of an after-the-fact variance request, and in
addition to the criteria listed in §
152.215(D), the Board of Adjustment shall take into consideration and weigh the
following:
      (1)   Whether or not the applicant acted in good faith or attempted to
comply with this chapter.
      (2)   Whether a substantial investment of money has been made.
      (3)   Whether the construction is fully completed.
      (4)   Whether there are similar structures or similarly situated
structures in the area.
      (5)   Whether the benefit to the county is outweighed by the burden on
the applicant, if the applicant is required to comply with this chapter.
   (F)   Other provisions related to variances.
      (1)   No variance may be granted that would allow any use that is not
allowed in the zoning district in which the subject property is located.
      (2)   Inadequate access to direct sunlight for solar energy systems is
considered a practical difficulty.
      (3)   Variances shall be granted for earth shelter construction as
defined in M.S. § 216C.06, subd. 14, when in harmony with the official
controls.
      (4)   The Board of Adjustment may impose conditions on the granting of
any variance pursuant to §
152.216(B).
      (5)   Granting of the variance shall not have the effect of violating a
state or federal rule or law.
      (6)   Floodplain standards. A variance issued to property within the
Floodplain Overlay District must meet the requirements set forth in §§
152.143 through
152.156.
      (7)   Shoreland Overlay District. A variance issued to property within
the Shoreland Overlay District must meet the requirements set forth in §§
152.108 and
152.135.
      (8)   That the granting of the variance will not materially, adversely
affect the health or safety of persons residing or working in the area adjacent
to the property of the applicant and will not be materially detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to property or improvements in the area adjacent to
the property of the applicant.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 80-2015,
passed 6-16-15; Am. Ord. 88-2018, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-
20-21)
§ 152.216 DECISION.
   (A)   Order adopted. The Board of Adjustment shall make its decision by the
adoption of an order either approving or denying the variance or appeal. The
Board of Adjustment shall adopt findings of fact supporting its order. The
Board of Adjustment shall make its decision in compliance with M.S. § 15.99.
   (B)   Conditions. The Board of Adjustment may impose conditions on the
granting of any variance. Conditions are to be directly related to the
variance, bear a rough proportionality to the impact created by the variance,
and shall be what the Board of Adjustment considers reasonable and necessary to
protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   (C)   Floodplain standards. For floodplain standards, see the Floodplain
Overlay District regulations in §§
152.143 through
152.156.
   (D)   Final notice to applicant. The Department shall send written notice of
the Board of Adjustment’s action to the applicant.
   (E)   File with Commissioner of Natural Resources. A copy of any order
issued by the Board of Adjustment for property within the Floodplain or
Shoreland District shall be filed with the Commissioner of Natural Resources
within ten days of issuance. When a variance is approved after the Department
of Natural Resources has formally recommended denial in the hearing record, the
notification of the approved variance shall include the Board of Adjustment’s
summary of the public record/testimony and the findings of facts and
conclusions which supported the issuance of the variance.
   (F)   Board decision final. All decisions by the Board of Adjustment in
granting variances or in hearing appeals from any administrative order,
requirement, decision or determination shall be final.
   (G)   Appeal to District Court. Any aggrieved person or persons, or any
department, board or commission of the jurisdiction, or of the state shall have
the right to appeal the decision to the Carver County District Court on
questions of law and fact. The appeal shall be made within 30 days after
receipt by the applicant of notice of the decision.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 88-2018,
passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.217 EXPIRATION/EXTENSION OF VARIANCE.
   If the work, as permitted by the variance, is not completed within one year
after the granting of the variance, then the variance shall become null and
void, unless a request for extension of time in which to complete the work has
been granted by the Board of Adjustment. In order to obtain an extension the
applicant must file a written request with the Department at such time as the
request can be placed on the Board of Adjustment agenda prior to the expiration
of the variance. The request for extension shall state facts showing a good
faith attempt to complete the work permitted in the variance. There shall be no
charge for the filing of the request.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.218 REHEARING.
   An applicant cannot request the re-hearing of a variance request or appeal
for a period of one year. An applicant may request the re-hearing of a request
for a variance or an appeal that has been denied when substantial new
information is obtained which is relevant to the issue. The Board of Adjustment
shall then re-hear the issue at another duly called public hearing.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 152.230 PLANNING COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   The Carver County Planning Commission is hereby established and invested
with such authority as is hereinafter provided and as provided by M.S. §§
394.21 through 394.37, as they may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.231 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The members of the Carver County Planning Commission shall be
appointed by the County Board of Commissioners. At least two members shall be
residents of the portion of the county outside the corporate limits of
municipalities. One member shall be appointed in accordance with a
recommendation by the town board chairs or designees as an “at-large” position.
No more than one voting member of the Commission shall be an officer or
employee of the county.
   (B)   Number. The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members. One of
these members shall be a member of the County Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Terms. The term of each member shall be for three years except the
County Board member. The terms shall be staggered so that no more than two
terms are filled at the beginning of each calendar year.
   (D)   Compensation. The members of the Commission may be compensated in an
amount determined by the County Board and may be paid their necessary expenses
in attending meetings of the Commission and in the conduct of business of the
Commission.
   (E)   Qualifications. No voting member of the Planning Commission shall have
received during the two years prior to appointment, any substantial portion of
his or her income from business operations involving the development of land
within Carver County for urban and urban related purposes.
   (F)   Ex officio member. The County Board may designate any county officer
or employee as an ex officio member of the Commission.
   (G)   Vacancy. Should any vacancy occur among members of the Planning
Commission by reason of death, resignation, disability or otherwise, immediate
notice thereof shall be given to the Chairman of the County Board by the
secretary of the Commission. Any filled vacancy shall be for the unexpired
term.
   (H)   Conflict of interest. Any question of when a particular issue involves
a conflict of interest is sufficient to disqualify a regular Commission member
from voting thereon shall be decided by a majority vote of all members except
the member who is being challenged.
   (I)   Removal. The County Board of Commissioners may remove any members of
the Planning Commission for nonperformance of duty or misconduct in office and
may fill vacancies for any unexpired term.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.232 ORGANIZATION.
   The Planning Commission shall elect a chairman and secretary from among its
members. It may also elect any other officers it deems necessary. The
Commission may also appoint a person not a member of the Commission to take and
keep minutes and be responsible for general clerical duties of the Commission.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.233 MEETINGS.
   The Planning Commission shall meet on a regular basis as determined by the
Commission. Special meetings may be held at the call of the chairman. Written
notice of any special meeting shall be posted giving the date, time, place and
purpose of the meeting at least three days before the meeting. Written notice
shall be mailed at least three days before the meeting to anyone who has filed
a written request for notice of special meetings. In calculating three days, if
the last day falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the next regular
business day shall be counted as the third day.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.234 AUTHORITY AND DUTIES OF COMMISSION.
   (A)   Advisory body. The Planning Commission shall act as an advisory body
to the County Board. The Commission shall forward all findings and
recommendations to the County Board within 60 days of its determination.
   (B)   Duties. The Planning Commission shall have authority to perform duties
and any other duties and responsibilities as may be assigned by the County
Board from time to time.
      (1)   Comprehensive plan. Cooperate with the County Planning staff in
preparing and recommending to the Board for adoption of a comprehensive plan
and amendments thereto.
      (2)   Implementation. Make recommendations for plan execution
(implementation) in the form of official controls and other measures, and
amendments thereto.
      (3)   Conditional use permits and interim use permits. Review all
applications for conditional use permits, interim use permits, plans for
subdivision, requests for amendment to official controls and submit findings
and recommendations to the Board. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this
chapter, the Planning Commission shall have the authority to order the issuance
of conditional use permits for residential related uses and structures pursuant
to §
152.077.
      (4)   Public hearings. Conduct public hearings on adoption or amendment
to official controls, conditional use permits and subdivision applications.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 80-2015,
passed 6-16-15; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
CONDITIONAL AND INTERIM USE PERMITS
§ 152.245 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Prior to submission of a CUP or IUP application, the person applying
for a CUP or IUP shall submit a concept plan and meet with the Department to
discuss the application. Through the pre-application, the Department may
summarize the informational requirements and issues related to the specific CUP
or IUP request. The person applying for a CUP or IUP shall submit an
application to the Department. The applicant shall demonstrate compliance with
the requirements for the CUP or IUP and shall include on the application all
information required by the Department.
   (B)   Floodplain standards. For floodplain standards, see the Floodplain
Overlay District regulations in §§
152.143 through
152.156.
   (C)   When a request for a CUP or IUP is within the Shoreland Overlay
District, the applicant must meet the requirements set forth in §§
152.108 and
152.135.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 88-2018,
passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.246 HEARING REQUIRED.
   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing in conformance with §
152.285 on all applications for a CUP or IUP.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.247 CONSIDERATION OF ADVERSE EFFECTS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission and staff shall consider possible adverse
effects of the proposed conditional or interim use and what additional
requirements may be necessary to reduce adverse effects.
   (B)   Its judgment shall be based upon (but not limited to) the following
factors:
      (1)   Relationship to county plans;
      (2)   The geographical area involved;
      (3)   Whether such use is a permitted conditional or interim use within
the zoning district;
      (4)   The character of the surrounding area;
      (5)   The demonstrated need for the use;
      (6)   Whether the proposed use would cause undue odors, dust, flies,
vermin, smoke, gas, noise or vibration or would impose hazards to life or
property in the neighborhood;
      (7)   Whether the use would inherently lead to or encourage disturbing
influences in the neighborhood;
      (8)   Whether stored equipment or materials would be screened and whether
there would be continuous operation within the visible range of surrounding
residences. The availability of other more suitable locations; and
      (9)   The duration of the proposed interim use.
   (C)   When a request for a CUP or IUP is within the Shoreland Overlay
District, the applicant must meet the requirements set forth in §§
152.108 and
152.135.
   (D)   Floodplain standards. For floodplain standards, see the Floodplain
Overlay District regulations in §§
152.143 through
152.156.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 88-2018,
passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.248 RECOMMENDATIONS FOR CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consider conditions relating to the
granting of the CUP or IUP as it deems necessary to carry out the intent and
purpose of this chapter or may recommend that the request be denied.
Recommendation and any conditions shall be supported by written findings.
   (B)   The conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Increasing the required lot size or yard dimension;
      (2)   Limiting the height, size or location of the buildings;
      (3)   Controlling the location and number of vehicle access points;
      (4)   Increasing the street width;
      (5)   Increasing the number of required off-street parking spaces;
      (6)   Limiting the number, size, location or lighting of signs;
      (7)   Requiring diking, fencing, screening, landscaping or other
facilities to protect adjacent or nearby property;
      (8)   Designating sites for open space;
      (9)   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities;
      (10)   Limitations on kinds of use and operation;
      (11)   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions;
      (12)   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes,
levees, and other protective measures;
      (13)   Shoreland standards. For shoreland standards, see the Shoreland
Overlay District regulations in §§
152.108 and
152.135;
      (14)   Floodplain standards. For floodplain standards, see the Floodplain
Overlay District regulations in §§
152.143 through
152.156.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 70-2010,
passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 88-2018, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-
20-21)
§ 152.249 TIME OF RECOMMENDATION; TRANSMITTAL TO BOARD.
   The Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to the County Board in a
timeframe so as to comply with M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from time to
time. Following the closing of the public hearing and formulation of the
Planning Commission’s recommendation, the Department shall report the findings
and recommendations of the Planning Commission to the County Board.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.250 COUNTY BOARD ACTION.
   (A)   The County Board shall take action on the CUP or IUP following receipt
of the findings and recommendations by the Planning Commission so as to comply
with M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from time to time. Should the Planning
Commission fail to provide findings and a recommendation in a timely manner,
the Board shall take action so as to comply with M.S. § 15.99, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (B)   Decision on the permit application shall be by order of the Board
ordering approval or denial of the permit. Approval shall consist of an order
directing the Land Management Department to issue the permit and shall include
any conditions placed on the permit. Denial shall be accomplished through the
issuance of an order not to issue the CUP or IUP and deny the application.
Orders to either approve or deny a permit application shall stipulate the
appropriate findings of fact supporting the approval and if conditions in
addition to those specifically required by this chapter are attached findings
supporting the conditions shall be included.
   (C)   Optional hearing. The County Board shall have the option to set and
hold a public hearing in accordance with §
152.285.
   (D)   Conditions. In ordering the issuance of a CUP or IUP, the County Board
shall include any conditions required to attain the objectives of the
comprehensive plan, comply with official controls, and protect the public
interest. Such conditions may include requiring the applicant to provide a
surety, and in the case of IUPs, setting a time limit for the use to exist or
operate. When appropriate, restrictive covenants may be entered into regarding
these matters.
   (E)   Notice to applicant.  The Department shall send written notice of the
County Board’s action to the applicant. The permit shall become effective upon
the date the applicant agrees to the conditions and signs the permit. Failure
of the applicant to sign and return the permit within 90 days of the Board’s
issuance of the order shall be cause for cancellation of the permit.
   (F)   Effect of denial. Whenever an application for a CUP or IUP has been
considered and denied by the County Board, a similar application for a CUP or
IUP affecting substantially the same property shall not be considered again by
the Planning Commission or County Board for at least six months from the date
of its denial; and a subsequent application for the same land use shall
likewise not be considered again by the Planning Commission or County Board for
an additional six months from the date of the second denial unless a decision
to reconsider the matter is made by not less than four-fifths vote of the
County Board.
   (G)   File with Commissioner of Natural Resources; floodplain standards. For
floodplain standards, see the Floodplain Overlay District regulations in §§
152.143 through
152.156.
   (H)   File with County Recorder. A certified copy or original of any CUP or
IUP shall be filed with the County Recorder. The CUP or IUP shall include the
legal description of the property involved, owner’s name and any conditions
stipulated upon approval by the County Board.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 88-2018,
passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.251 REQUIRED FINDINGS.
   An order for the issuance of a CUP or IUP can be adopted only if all of the
following are found as fact. Any conditions imposed by the permit or actions
required as part of the order shall be considered in making findings:
   (A)   The conditional or interim use is permitted as a permitted conditional
or interim use within the zoning district, and meets all requirements of this
chapter and any other county, regional, state, or federal laws, ordinances,
rules or regulations.
   (B)   The conditional or interim use will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already
permitted.
   (C)   The establishment of a conditional or interim use will not impede the
normal and orderly development and improvement of surrounding vacant property
for uses predominant in the area.
   (D)   The effects of the proposed use will not be detrimental to the health,
safety and welfare of Carver County or to the occupants of the immediate
neighborhood.
   (E)   That adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and other facilities
have been or are being provided.
   (F)   That adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide
sufficient off-street parking and loading space to serve the proposed use if
these measures are applicable.
   (G)   That adequate measures have been or will be taken to prevent or
control offensive odor, fumes, dust, noise and vibration, so that none of these
will constitute a nuisance if these measures are applicable.
   (H)   The use or development conforms to the County Comprehensive Plan.
   (I)   The use or development is compatible with the land uses in the
neighborhood.
   (J)   A public hearing was held pursuant to §
152.285 and M.S. § 394.26, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.252 CONFORMITY REQUIRED, EXPIRATION EXTENSION, REVIEW, DURATION.
   (A)   Conformity with permit. Any use permitted under the terms of any CUP
or IUP shall be established and conducted in conformity with the terms of the
permit and of any condition designated in connection therewith. Any deviation
from the conditions or uses approved may be considered grounds for suspension
or termination of the CUP or IUP by the County Board. The action shall occur by
order of the County Board. The Board may call a public hearing prior to
termination of a permit.
   (B)   Expiration of CUP or IUP . Unless significant work has been done
within six months from the date of adoption of the Board order, the permit
shall become null and void, unless a petition for extension of time in which to
complete the work has been granted by the County Board. In cases where
significant action clearly has not been taken to place a permit into effect and
an extension has not been granted by the County Board, the Department shall,
after appropriate investigation and 30-day written notice to the present
property owner, file a notice of termination in the Office of the County
Recorder. In cases where a use provided for by a CUP or IUP will no longer be
conducted due to an irreversible change in circumstance or when the current
owner of the property so requests, the Department shall, after a 30-day notice
to the present property owner, file the appropriate termination documents in
the Office of the County Recorder.
   (C)   Request for extension. A holder of a conditional or interim use may
request an extension of the time to do significant work to place the permit
into effect for up to one year. The request shall be in writing and shall be
filed with the Department at least 30 days before the CUP or IUP is due to
become null and void. The request for extension shall state facts showing a
good faith attempt to do significant work toward meeting the specifications and
conditions of the permit. The request shall be presented to the County Board
for a decision.
   (D)   Permit review. Conditional or interim use permits may be reviewed on a
periodic basis or when it is brought to the attention of the Department that
the permittee is deviating from any conditions or uses approved for the CUP or
IUP. Periodic permit review shall fall into one of the following
classifications:
      (1)   Administrative review. The Department may conduct a site
inspection, review current aerial photos, review current permit conditions,
review complaint and database records, and/or request information from the
landowner or permittee. The Department may also contact the affected township
for input on the standing of the permit. All permits are subject to
administrative review.
      (2)   Compliance review. The Department would typically conduct an annual
site inspection; review the conditions of the permit to determine compliance
status; contact the permit holder regarding associated insurance and/or surety
documentation; and notify the affected township of the compliance review.
Permits requiring any type of renewal under previous ordinances, or permits
with a condition specifying the compliance review requirement shall fall into
this classification.
   (E)   Duration of permit. A CUP shall remain in effect for so long as the
conditions agreed upon are observed. At the time designated for the IUP to
expire, the Department will conduct an inspection of the site. If the
Department finds that the use is still compatible, and is not creating an
adverse affect on the surrounding area, the applicant may apply for an
extension. A reapplication for an IUP shall be administered in the same manner
as the original IUP application.
   (F)   New owner, permittee or operator. A new landowner or individual
assuming the role as permittee is required to contact the Department to review
the conditions and current status of the CUP, and to determine whether there is
a need for additional applications pertaining to amendments or additional
permits.
   (G)   Amendments. Nothing in this section shall prevent the Board from
enacting or amending official controls to change the status of conditional or
interim uses.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21)
AMENDMENTS
§ 152.265 AMENDMENT OF ZONING CODE.
   The provisions of this chapter may be amended by the Board of County
Commissioners of Carver County.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.266 INITIATION OF AMENDMENT.
   A request for amendment, rezoning, extension or addition to the regulations
of this chapter can be initiated by the following: a petition from a resident
or residents or property owner or owners within the jurisdiction of this
chapter; a recommendation of the Planning Commission; action by the County
Board.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.267 PRE-APPLICATION MEETING.
   An applicant for an amendment to the zoning code may request a meeting with
the Planning Commission prior to making a formal application. The applicant
should make available to the staff and the Planning Commission sufficient
information to present a general idea of the proposal. The applicant may
request that the meeting be placed on the Commission agenda any time before the
agenda is mailed to the members of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.268 APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for amendment or rezoning shall be filed with the
Department and be accompanied with the filing fee as may be established by the
County Board.
   (B)   Required information accompanying application to change the wording of
this chapter shall contain the following:
      (1)   Stated reason for change requested;
      (2)   Statement of compatibility to the comprehensive plan;
      (3)   Text of portion of the existing ordinance to be amended;
      (4)   Proposed amended text and statements outlining any other effects
that the amendment may have on other areas of this chapter; and
      (5)   Additional information as may be requested by the Planning
Commission or Department.
   (C)   Required information accompanying applications to change district
boundaries shall contain the following:
      (1)   The names and addresses of the petitioner or petitioners and their
signatures to the petition;
      (2)   A specific description of the area proposed to be rezoned, and the
names and addresses of all owners of property within the area, and a
description of the property owned by each;
      (3)   The present district classification of the area and the proposed
district classification;
      (4)   Proposed use of land (a statement of the type, extent, area, and
the like);
      (5)   Map and plot plan or survey;
      (6)   Compatibility with the comprehensive plan (a statement of
conditions warranting changes in zoning);
      (7)   A legal description of the property to be rezoned;
      (8)   Map, plot plan or survey plot of property to be rezoned (showing
location, dimensions, zoning of adjacent properties, existing uses and
buildings of adjacent properties) within 500 feet in incorporated areas, and ½-
mile in unincorporated areas and drawn to scale; and
      (9)   Additional information as may be requested by the Planning
Commission or county staff.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.269 HEARING REQUIRED.
   A public hearing shall be conducted as provided in §
152.285.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.270 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   Prior to submitting its recommendation to the County Board the Planning
Commission shall support its recommendations by making findings of fact based
on evidence from all sources.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.271 TRANSMITTAL TO BOARD.
   (A)   Following the closing of the public hearing and action by the Planning
Commission, the Department shall forward the Planning Commission findings and
recommendations on the proposed amendment or rezoning to the County Board.
   (B)   Special conditions in floodplain; Floodplain standards. For floodplain
standards, see the Floodplain Overlay District regulations in §§
152.143 through
152.156.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 88-2018, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.272 COUNTY BOARD ACTION.
   The following shall be the procedure for amending this chapter or rezoning:
   (A)   Time for action. The County Board shall take action on the proposed
amendment following receipt of the recommendations by the Planning Commission
so as to comply with M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from time to time.
Should the Planning Commission fail to provide findings and a recommendation in
a timely manner, the Board shall take action so as to comply with M.S. § 15.99,
as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Findings of fact. Before adopting an ordinance to amend the zoning
code or denying the petition for amendment the Board shall examine the hearing
record and any other relevant information or reports. The Board shall adopt a
resolution stating its reasons for approval or denial. To approve an
application the Board shall find as follows:
      (1)   The amendment is in conformance with the comprehensive plan;
      (2)   The amendment is not in conflict with any other official controls;
and
      (3)   The amendment will not be detrimental to the health, safety or
general welfare.
   (C)   Amendments to the chapter shall be adopted by ordinance. Changes in
district boundaries shall be by ordinance. Following passage of the ordinance,
the Department shall make appropriate changes on the zoning map.
   (D)   Notice to applicant. The Department shall send written notice of the
County Board action to the applicant.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.273 FILE WITH COMMISSIONER OF NATURAL RESOURCES.
   Floodplain standards. For floodplain standards, see the Floodplain Overlay
District regulations in §§
152.143 through
152.156.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 88-2018, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.274 EFFECT OF DENIAL.
   In the event the proposed change in the zoning use district boundaries is
denied by the County Board, no request for the same district change on the same
property will be considered for at least one year.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
PUBLIC HEARINGS
§ 152.285 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   A public hearing shall be held as required by M.S. § 394.26, as it may
be amended from time to time. In addition to the notice requirements of M.S. §
394.26, as it may be amended from time to time, notice shall be given to the
Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources if the affected property is
within the Floodplain or Shoreland District.
   (B)   Floodplain standards. For floodplain standards, see the Floodplain
Overlay District regulations in §§
152.143 through
152.156.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 88-2018, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.286 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Public notice shall be given as required in M.S. § 375.51 and M.S. §
394.26, as they may be amended from time to time. If an affected property is in
the Shoreland or Floodplain Districts, the Commissioner of the Department of
Natural Resources shall also be given notice.
   (B)   Floodplain standards. For floodplain standards, see the Floodplain
Overlay District regulations in §§
152.143 through
152.156.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 88-2018, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021,
passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.287 PROPERTY OWNER RECORDS.
   For the purpose of giving mailed notice, the person responsible for mailing
the notice shall use the latest list of property owners available in the county
GIS system. A copy of the notice and a list of the owners and addresses to
which the notice was sent shall be attested to by the responsible person and
shall be made a part of the records of the proceedings.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.288 FAILURE TO GIVE NOTICE.
   The failure to give mailed notice to individual property owners or defects
in the notice shall not invalidate the proceedings, provided a bona fide
attempt to comply with this subchapter has been made.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.289 APPLICANT TO APPEAR.
   The applicant or representative thereof must appear before the body holding
the hearing in order to answer questions concerning their request.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.290 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
   The body holding the hearing and county staff shall have the authority to
request additional information from the applicant concerning operational
factors or to retain expert testimony with the consent and at the expense of
the applicant concerning operational factors, the information to be declared
necessary to establish performance conditions in relation to all pertinent
sections of this chapter.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.291 ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN.
   The applicant for a conditional use permit or variance which, in the opinion
of the body holding the hearing, may result in a material adverse effect on the
environment may be requested by the body to demonstrate the nature and extent
of the effect.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Enforcement. The Department is authorized to administer and enforce
this chapter. In the event of a violation or threatened violation of this
chapter, the Department, County Board or any member thereof may institute
appropriate actions or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate the
violations or threatened violations and it shall be the duty of the County
Attorney to institute the action.
   (B)   Violation a misdemeanor. Except where separately provided for in this
chapter or in state statute or rule, violation of the provisions of this
chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements, including violations
of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of
variances, interim or conditional uses, administrative permits, certificates of
zoning compliance, certificates of nonconformance, County Board or Board of
Adjustment order, or other certificates or permits issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable as defined by law. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Remedies. In responding to a suspected chapter violation, the county
may utilize the full array of enforcement actions available to it including,
but not limited to prosecution and fines, after-the-fact permits, stop work
orders, notice of violation, orders for corrective measures, or if the property
is in the Floodplain Overlay District, a request to the National Flood
Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance availability to the guilty
party. The county may institute appropriate actions or proceedings, including
injunctive relief to prevent, restrain, correct or abate the violations or
threatened violations. The county may recover costs incurred for corrective
action in a civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction or, at the
discretion of the County Board, the costs may be certified to the County
Auditor as a special tax against the real property.
   (D)   Fines. All fines for violation shall be paid to the county and shall
be credited to the general revenue fund.
   (E)   Mandamus. Any taxpayer or taxpayers of the county may institute
mandamus proceedings in District Court to compel specific performances by the
proper official or officials of any duty required by this chapter.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11; Am. Ord. 88-2018,
passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 97-2021, passed 7-20-21)
APPENDIX: ZONING MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a8d38408183f4b9976deef69493e99a252875466/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2423.png]
 
CHAPTER 153: WATER RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Disclaimer, interpretation and other general provisions
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Statutory authorization and purpose
General Requirements and Review Process
   
153.10   General requirement for compliance
   
153.11   Review process
Application Requirements
   
153.40   Fees
   
153.41   Submittal requirements - general
   
153.42   Erosion control permit - submittal requirements
   
153.43   Stormwater permit - submittal requirements
   
153.44   Stream crossings permit - submittal requirements
   
153.45   Maintenance permit - submittal requirements
 
Standards
   
153.55   Erosion and sediment control design and operational standards
   
153.56   Stormwater management standards
   
153.57   Stream crossing standards
   
153.58   Maintenance permit standards
   
153.59   Surface water projection setback standards
   
153.60   Shoreland standards
   
153.61   Floodplain standards
   
153.62   Topsoil management standards
   
153.63   Upstream and downstream impact standards
   
153.64   Conservation area standards
Enforcement
   
153.70   Authority/responsibility
   
153.71   Method of enforcement
   
153.72   Inspections
   
153.73   Financial security
   
153.74   Relief
   
Appendix A: Volume and Water Quality Calculations
   
Appendix B: Maintenance
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 DISCLAIMER, INTERPRETATION AND OTHER GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Disclaimer. This chapter does not imply that areas within or outside
of the CCWMO will be free from water related damages. This chapter does not
create liability on the part of the county or its officers or employees for
water related damage that may result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decisions made under it.
   (B)   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall
be liberally construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a
limitation or repeal of any other powers granted by state statutes.
   (C)   Supremacy. This chapter is not intended to abrogate any easements,
restrictions, or covenants, relating to the use of land or imposed on lands
within the community by private declaration or agreement, but where the
provisions of this chapter are more restrictive than any such easement,
restriction, or covenant, or the provision of any private agreement, the
provisions of this chapter shall prevail.
   (D)   Liability. The responsible party is responsible for safely and legally
completing the project. Neither the issuance of approval under the provisions
of this chapter nor the compliance with the provisions hereto or with any
condition imposed by the issuing authority, shall relieve any person from
responsibility for damage to persons or property resulting therefrom, or as
otherwise imposed by law, nor impose any liability upon the county for damages
to persons or property.
(Ord. 57-2005, passed 1-10-06; Am. Ord. 75-2012, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 83-
2016, passed 9-20-16; Am. Ord. 99-2022, passed 6-28-22)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Definitions as set forth in Appendix B of the Minnesota Permit R100001
(the General Permit Authorization to Discharge Storm Water Associated With
Construction Activity Under The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System) as amended from time to time which are hereby adopted and incorporated
by reference.
   (B)   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this
chapter shall be interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as they have
in common usage and to give this chapter its most reasonable application. The
following words and terms, whenever they occur in this chapter are defined as
follows:
      APPLICATION. A completed application for activities regulated by this
permit.
      ATLAS 14. A publication from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration (NOAA) that provides precipitation event frequency and magnitude
estimates.
      BARE AREAS. Areas that are intended to be fully vegetated, where
vegetative cover is less than 70%.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP). A stationary and permanent best
management practice that is designed, constructed, and operated to prevent or
reduce the discharge of pollutants in stormwater. BMPs may be structural or
non-structural.
      BIORETENTION. A best management practice (BMP) that captures stormwater
runoff, holding it, and removing suspended particles from the runoff via plant
uptake and by passing it through a porous media. Also see FILTRATION.
      BLUFF. A topographic feature such as a hill, cliff, or embankment having
the following characteristics:
         (a)   The slope rises at least 25 feet; and
         (b)   The grade of the slope from the toe of the bluff to the top of
the bluff averages 30% or greater, except that an area with an average slope of
less than 18% of a distance of at least 50 feet shall not be considered part of
the bluff.
      BLUFF TOP. The top of a bluff is a point on the upper part of a bluff
where the average slope levels off to 18% or less.
      BRIDGE.  Structures having an opening measured horizontally along the
center of the roadway of ten feet or more between undercopings of abutments,
between spring line of arches, or between extreme ends of openings for multiple
boxes. Bridge also includes multiple pipes where the clear distance between
openings is less than half of the smaller contiguous opening.
      CCWMO. Carver County Water Management Organization.
      COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT. A common plan of development or sale means a
contiguous area where multiple separate and distinct land disturbing activities
may be taking place at different times, on different schedules, but under one
proposed plan.
      COMPENSATORY STORAGE.  The replacement of floodplain storage lost by
placement of fill below the 100-year flood elevation. Measured by the volume of
material excavated below the floodplain elevation that is required to offset
floodplain fill.
      CONSTRAINED AREA. An area or site with specific conditions that make
volume control BMPs difficult, undesirable or impossible. If these conditions
are present, the site may qualify as “constrained,” subject to county review
and determination. Examples of constraints include potential contamination, low
permeability soils and the like.
      CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. A disturbance to the land that results in a change
in the topography, existing soil cover (both vegetative and non-vegetative), or
the existing soil topography that may result in accelerated stormwater runoff,
leading to soil erosion and movement of sediment into surface waters or
drainage systems. Examples of construction activity may include clearing,
grading, filling, and excavating.
      COUNTY. Shall refer to Carver County as the water management authority
within the CCWMO.
      CROSSINGS. Culverts, bridges, dams or other obstructions or alterations
to flow in waters of the state as defined with flows equal to or greater than
ten cubic feet per second.
      DISCHARGE. The conveyance, channeling, runoff, or drainage of stormwater,
including snow melt, from a construction site.
      DNR CATCHMENT AREA. The smallest delineated and digitized drainage area
mapped by the Minnesota DNR Watershed Delineation Project, as updated from time
to time.
      DOWNSTREAM CAPACITY. The ability of the natural and structural conveyance
system to accommodate additional flows from the site discharge points to the
nearest receiving major waterbody without causing nuisance conditions or
flooding. This includes capacity of the conveyance system to accommodate
additional rates, volumes, velocities and duration of flow.
      DOWNSTREAM FACILITY. A constructed/altered water body created
specifically for the purpose of treating stormwater runoff which may be located
off the project site and would receive runoff from the project site.
      EMERGENCY WORK. Work needed to protect life, limb, and property.
      EROSION. The wearing away of soil by rainfall, surface water runoff,
wind, or ice movement.
      EROSION CONTROL. Methods employed to prevent erosion. Examples include,
but are not limited to soil stabilization practices, horizontal slope grading,
temporary or permanent cover, and construction phasing.
      EXISTING CONDITIONS. The condition of a site (amount of impervious, soil
condition, topography, vegetative cover, and the like) prior to the start of a
land altering activity.
      FEEDLOT. Refer to the county feedlot management regulations, Chapter 54
of this Code of Ordinances.
      FILL. Any solid material added to or redeposited in an area that changes
the area’s hydrological characteristics, obstructs flow patterns, converts
wetland to non-wetland, or alters the area’s capacity to store the 100-year
flood.
      FILTRATION. The process of capturing stormwater runoff, holding it, and
removing suspended particles from the runoff by passing it through porous
media. Also see BIORETENTION.
      FLOOD.  A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream or in the
stage of a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry
areas.
      FLOODPLAIN. The beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional flood.
      FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse
and those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
      HIGH WATER LEVEL (HWL). The calculated peak elevation of a water body for
the greater of the 100-year, 24-hour rainfall or 100-year, ten-day snowmelt
event as described in Atlas-14.
      IMPERVIOUS. A constructed hard surface that either prevents or retards
the entry of water into the soil and causes water to run off the surface in
greater quantities and at an increased rate of flow than prior to development.
Examples include rooftops, sidewalks, patios, driveways, parking lots, storage
areas, and concrete, asphalt, or gravel roads.
      INFILTRATION AREAS. A stormwater runoff impoundment designed to capture
stormwater runoff volume, hold this volume and infiltrate it into subsurface
soil.
      LAND ALTERING ACTIVITY. See CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY.
      LINEAR PROJECT (LINEAR). A project that constructs or reconstructs a
road, trail, rail line, or sidewalk and is not part of a common plan of
development.
      LOCAL GOVERNMENT UNIT, LGU or LOCAL UNIT. Has the meaning given it in
M.S. § 473.852, as it may be amended from time to time.
      MAJOR WATERBODY. See PROTECTED WATERS AND WATERWAYS.
      MAJOR SUBWATERSHED. Major watersheds within the Carver County Watershed
Management Organization are defined as the drainage areas for the following
waterbodies: Bevens Creek, Carver Creek, East Chaska Creek, West Chaska Creek,
and the South Fork of the Crow River.
      MILL AND OVERLAY. A pavement maintenance technique that removes the top
layer of pavement by the grinding action of a large milling machine. After the
top layer is removed, a new layer of bituminous pavement is put in its place.
Underlying base, subbase, and subgrade are not disturbed.
      MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). A conveyance or system of
conveyances (roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch basins,
curbs, gutters, ditches, man- made channels, storm drains, etc.) that is also:
         (a)   Owned or operated by a public entity (which can include cities,
townships, counties, military bases, hospitals, prison complexes, highway
departments, universities, etc.) having jurisdiction over disposal of sewage,
industrial wastes, stormwater, or other wastes, including special districts
under state law such as a sewer district, flood control district or drainage
district, or similar entity, or an Indian tribe or an authorized Indian tribal
organization, or a designated and approved management agency under § 208 of the
Clean Water Act that discharges to waters of the United States;
         (b)   Designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater;
         (c)   Which is not a combined sewer; and
         (d)   Which is not part of a publicly owned treatment works.
      NORMAL WATER LEVEL (NWL). The elevation of water at its fixed or designed
outlet elevation.
      PAVEMENT RECLAMATION. A pavement maintenance technique that consists of
uniformly crushing, pulverizing and re-mixing the pavement section along with a
small portion of the underlying base material and relaying it in one operation.
The existing subgrade and the large majority of the subbase are left
undisturbed.
      PAVEMENT REHABILITATION. A pavement maintenance technique that consists
of structural enhancements that extend the service life of an existing pavement
and/or improve its load carrying capacity. Rehabilitation techniques include
restoration treatments and structural overlays but do not typically involve
more than spot corrections to base or subbase.
      PEAK RATES. The maximum rate of flow from a point of storm water
discharge during or immediately following a storm event, usually in reference
to a specific design storm.
      PERVIOUS. A surface that is readily penetrated or permeated by rainfall
or runoff resulting in infiltration and reduced runoff.
      POND. A graded area which collects and stores water.
      PRETREATMENT. Sediment removal designed to capture or trap coarse
sediments to preserve storage, prevent clogging and extend the life of
facilities. Pretreatment may include but is not limited to vegetated filter
strips, small sedimentations basins, forebays, and grit chambers.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person or party possessing the title of the land on
which the construction activities will occur; or if the construction activity
is for a lease holder, the party or individual identified as the lease holder;
or the contracting government agency responsible for the construction activity.
      PROTECTED WATERS AND WATERWAYS. Water bodies or watercourses so
identified on the Public Waters Wetlands Inventory Map published by the
Department of Natural Resources, State of Minnesota or watercourses determined
by the county to have a watershed of two square miles or more.
      PUBLIC WATER. See PROTECTED WATERS AND WATERWAYS.
      RECEIVING WATERBODY. A body of water such as a stream, river, lake, or
wetland which receives stormwater.
      RECONSTRUCTION (FULL RECONSTRUCTION). Full removal and reconstruction of
impervious surfaces (including pavement structure, base, and subbase).
Activities including mill and overlay projects, pavement reclamation or
pavement rehabilitation projects that do not expose the underlying soils are
not considered fully reconstructed.
      REDEVELOPMENT. A land altering activity that creates new or replaces
existing impervious surface on a parcel that is fully or partially occupied by
buildings and/or other impervious surface. Redevelopment does not apply to in-
kind replacement (i.e., replacing a parking lot with a parking lot in the same
location).
      REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in a magnitude of the 1% chance or
100-year recurrence interval.
      RESPONSIBLE PARTY. The property owner or his or her agent.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY (R-O-W). A strip of land acquired by reservation,
dedication, prescription, or condemnation and intended to be occupied or used
by a road, street, trail, water line, sewer line, electrical transmission line
or similar public and/or utility service. Unless otherwise specified, the term
RIGHT-OF-WAY (R-O-W) as used in this chapter refers to road or street right-of-
way.
      SEDIMENT. The product of an erosion process; solid material both mineral
and organic that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved by
water, air or ice, and has come to rest on the earth’s surface either above or
below water level.
      SEDIMENT CONTROL. Methods employed to prevent sediment from leaving the
site. Sediment control practices include, but are not limited to silt fences,
sediment traps, earth dikes, drainage swales, check dams, subsurface drains,
pipe slope drains, storm drain inlet protection and temporary or permanent
sedimentation basins.
      SENSITIVE AREAS. Areas that are within 50 feet of and drain to one or
more of the following resources: DNR protected waters, watercourses as defined,
designated floodplain, bluffs and bluff tops, Wellhead Protection Areas as
adopted by LGU, delineated wetland boundaries, or wetlands as shown on the
National Wetland Inventory (NWI). The distance is measured horizontally from
construction limits.
      SITE. One or more contiguous properties that are the location of
construction activity and are under the control of the applicant.
      SOIL. The unconsolidated mineral and organic mineral material on the
immediate surface of the earth.
      STABILIZED. The exposed ground surface has been covered by staked sod,
riprap, wood fiber blanket, or other material which prevents erosion from
occurring. Grass seed is not stabilization.
      STORM EVENT. As defined in Technical Paper 40 from NOAA, Rainfall
Frequency Atlas of the United States for Durations from 30 minutes to 24 Hours
and Return Periods from 1 to 100 Years (1961).
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on or connected to the ground.
      SWCD. The Carver County Soil and Water Conservation District.
      TOP OF BANK. For natural watercourses, the first major change in slope of
the incline above a clearly defined channel. For altered watercourses, the top
of the constructed bank.
      TOPSOIL. The uppermost layer of soil, containing organic matter and
micro-organisms.
      WATERBODY. All waterbasins, watercourses, and wetlands as defined in
these rules.
      WATERBASIN. An enclosed natural depression with definable banks, capable
of containing water, that may be partly filled with waters of the state.
      WATERCOURSE. Any channel having definable beds and banks capable of
conducting generally confined runoff from adjacent lands. During floods water
may leave the confining beds and banks but under low and normal flows water is
confined within the channel. A watercourse may be perennial or intermittent.
This definition excludes road ditches and swales constructed solely for the
purpose of conveying runoff from highways, roads and streets and the adjacent
lands.
      WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
      WATERSHED. The drainage area under the jurisdiction of a watershed
management organization.
      WETLAND CONSERVATION ACT (WCA). As defined by Minnesota Wetland
Conservation Rules, Minn. Rules Ch. 8420, as it may be amended from time to
time.
      WETLANDS. All wetlands identified as wetlands under M.S. § 103G.005, subd
19. The term does not include “public waters wetlands” as defined under M.S. §
103G.005, subd 15a.
   (C)   All distances, unless otherwise specified, shall be measured
horizontally.
   (D)   Any words not defined in this section shall have the meanings given
them in Merriam-Webster’s Collegiate Dictionary, 11th Edition.
(Ord. 57-2005, passed 1-10-06; Am. Ord. 75-2012, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 83-
2016, passed 9-20-16; Am. Ord. 99-2022, passed 6-28-22)
§ 153.03 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted pursuant to M.S. §§ 103B.211 through 103B.255
and Minn. Rules 8410, as they may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   The overall purpose of this chapter is to protect, preserve and manage
natural surface and groundwater systems within Carver County in the face of
rapid urban growth and intensive agricultural activity. The chapter also
presents sustainable and equitable means to effectively reach those goals by
providing guidance and specific standards for decision-makers, residents,
landowners, educators, and implementing staff at the local level.
(Ord. 57-2005, passed 1-10-06; Am. Ord. 75-2012, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 83-
2016, passed 9-20-16; Am. Ord. 99-2022, passed 6-28-22)
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND REVIEW PROCESS
§ 153.10 GENERAL REQUIREMENT FOR COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Effective date. This chapter shall take effect immediately upon its
passage and publication according to law.
   (B)   The standards contained in this chapter shall be the minimum standards
for the issues covered by this chapter for any land altering activity in the
CCWMO. All land altering activities shall conform to the standards in this
chapter unless specifically exempted below. For long term land altering
activity that does not have a defined start and stop timeframe (such as routine
agricultural activity), standards under other state and federal programs may
apply. Some projects or activities fall below the thresholds that require
formal review and approval process. The fact that formal review and approval is
not required does not excuse these activities from compliance with this
chapter.
   (C)    The following activities shall not be subject to the requirements of
this chapter or to the specific requirement as shown below. Activities exempt
from a specific requirement may still be subject to other requirements in this
chapter.
      (1)   Routine agricultural activity. Tilling, planting, harvesting, and
associated activities. Other agricultural activities are not exempt such as
feedlots, storage sheds;
      (2)   Emergency work to protect life, limb, or property;
      (3)   Installation of fence, sign, telephone, electric or other kinds of
posts or poles;
      (4)   Utility maintenance and horizontal drilling projects that are part
of a larger plan of development;
      (5)   Construction or replacement of crossings that are not in contact
with watercourses as defined in these rules;
      (6)   Downstream facility exemption. A project is exempt from the rate
control, water quality, and volume control standards of this chapter upon
determination by the county that a downstream facility is in place or has been
ordered and the facility is designed with adequate capacity to meet the
treatment requirements for the project;
      (7)   Projects consisting of mill and overlay activities, pavement
rehabilitation, pavement reclamation, and normal road maintenance are exempt
from the rate control, water quality, and volume control requirements of this
chapter;
      (8)   New trails or sidewalk projects that create impervious surfaces 12
feet or less in width, are created independently from linear projects, and will
be bordered on the downgradient side(s) by a pervious buffer averaging at least
one-half the width of the sidewalk or trail are exempt from the rate control,
water quality and volume control requirements of this chapter;
      (9)   Reconstruction projects that reduce cumulative site impervious by
10% or more are exempt from the rate control, water quality, and volume control
requirements of this chapter;
      (10)   Individual residential lots that are part of a common plan of
development with an approved stormwater or erosion and sediment control permit
shall not require an individual permit unless an individual permit was required
under the approval conditions for the common plan of development; and
      (11)   Projects which extend drainage conveyance pipes and other
crossings which do not significantly alter the hydraulic drainage
characteristics of the crossing (e.g., do not result in changes to the two-,
ten-, and/or 100-year hydraulic profile, flow capacity, invert elevations,
upstream and downstream water elevations).
   (D)   For previously approved projects, the conditions which require permit
review and reapproval are described below:   
      (1)   If the amount of impervious surface approved in the stormwater
permit increases, a new stormwater permit shall be required and the project
shall meet the rules in place at the time of re- application;
      (2)   If 18 months have passed since the date of approval without
construction activity on the site or if 18 months have passed since the last
construction activity on the site, permit review and reapproval are required;
      (3)   Common plan of development. Individual commercial or industrial
lots or phases of a residential development that are part of a common plan of
development that has received an approved stormwater permit from the county on
or before the effective date of this chapter shall be required to obtain a
permit as described below:
         (a)   If previously approved stormwater infrastructure has been fully
constructed and/or alterations will not result in reductions in approved
treatment amounts, a new erosion control permit shall be obtained. Verification
that the stormwater treatment infrastructure is functioning shall be required.
         (b)   If previously approved stormwater treatment infrastructure has
not been constructed, a new stormwater permit shall be obtained. The project
shall meet standards in place at the time of re-application.
      (4)   Projects proposed for replatting. Projects with a previously
approved stormwater permit that are proposed for replatting shall be required
to obtain a permit as described below:
         (a)   If previously approved stormwater treatment infrastructure has
been fully constructed or alterations will not result in reductions in approved
treatment amounts, if the stormwater treatment infrastructure is functioning as
designed, and the amount of proposed impervious surface remains the same or
decreases, the project will be considered exempt from the current stormwater
treatment requirements and a new erosion control permit shall be obtained.
         (b)   If previously approved stormwater treatment infrastructure has
not been constructed, a new stormwater permit shall meet standards in place at
the time of re-application.
(Ord. 57-2005, passed 1-10-06; Am. Ord. 75-2012, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 83-
2016, passed 9-20-16; Am. Ord. 99-2022, passed 6-28-22)
§ 153.11 REVIEW PROCESS.
   The county shall have the authority to administer and enforce this chapter.
   (A)   Thresholds and requirements for review and approval. The need for
review and approval and procedures will be dependent on the scale of the
project and its location relative to sensitive areas. Regardless of whether or
not an activity meets a threshold for review, all land altering activities
shall take appropriate erosion control measures to prevent the sedimentation of
receiving waterbodies or discharges of sediment onto neighboring properties.
See §§
153.10(C) and
153.10(D) for a description of activities and situations that are exempt from
some or all of the requirements of this chapter. Applicant should contact the
county if unsure of the project level.
      (1)   Activities requiring an erosion control permit.
         (a)   Any of the following activities shall require an erosion control
permit:
            1.   Projects with one acre or more of construction activity and
not in a sensitive area; or
            2.   Projects with less than one acre of construction activity that
are part of a larger common plan of development or sale if the larger common
plan ultimately has construction activity equal to or greater than one acre; or
            3.   Projects with less than one acre of construction activity
within a sensitive area; or
            4.   Projects which require the release of material off-site or
into waters of the state; or
            5.    Projects which create or concentrate new discharges or flows
over ten cubic feet per second (cfs) (NOTE: see §
153.11(A)(3) for thresholds for projects that remove or replace and existing
stream crossing or create a new stream crossing).
         (b)   Activities described in §
153.11(A)(1)(a)1-4 require review and approval by the county based on standards
in §
153.55.
         (c)   Activities described in §
153.11(A)(1)(a) 5 require review and approval by the county based on standards
in §§
153.55 and
153.56(G).
      (2)   Activities requiring a stormwater permit.
         (a)   Any of the following activities shall require a stormwater
permit:
            1.   Projects which cumulatively construct, reconstruct, or
redevelop one acre or more of impervious surfaces after September 1, 2002; or
            2.   Projects which cumulatively construct, reconstruct, or
redevelop 10,000 square feet of impervious surfaces after September 1, 2002 and
located within a sensitive area; or
            3.   Projects which result in a loss of stormwater treatment from
an impervious area of 10,000 square feet or greater. Examples include loss of
treatment by impervious disconnection through creation of curb and gutter or
impacts to existing stormwater BMPs; or
            4.   Projects which include structural stormwater treatment.
         (b)   These activities require review and approval by the county based
on standards in §§
153.55 through
153.64.
      (3)   Activities requiring a stream crossings permit.
         (a)   Projects which create new crossings as defined in these rules.
         (b)   Projects which replace or improve existing crossings as defined
in these rules and result in changes to the two-, ten-, and/or 100-year
hydraulic profile, flow capacity, invert elevations, or upstream and downstream
water elevations.
         (c)   Projects which remove existing crossings as defined in these
rules.
         (d)   These activities require review and approval by the county based
on standards in §
153.57.
      (4)   Activities requiring a maintenance permit.
         (a)   Any of the following activities shall require a maintenance
permit:
            1.   Projects which involve the replacement of existing crossings
as defined in these rules and result in changes to the hydraulic profile of the
waterbody in the two-, ten-, and 100-year events that are minor enough to
result in no adverse impacts to structures or watercourses; or
            2.   Projects which involve slip-lining culverts; or
            3.   Projects which involve chip seal pavement surface treatment in
urban areas where streets or paved areas have surface inlets; or
            4.   Projects which involve horizontal drilling and are within
sensitive areas (utility maintenance work and projects that part of a larger
plan of development are exempt); or
            5.   Projects which maintain or restore the function of stormwater
BMPs by replacing structures or filtration media, dredging, grading, or other
activities beyond routine maintenance (i.e., sediment removal, trash removal,
vegetation management).
         (b)   These activities must adhere to the maintenance standards
described in §
153.58.
      (5)   General review process. The following steps are recommended prior
to LGU preliminary plat approval in order to expedite the review process.
         (a)   Determination of project level. Project level shall be
determined based on the thresholds described above. Projects that meet the
thresholds described above shall continue with the process described below.
         (b)   Pre-application meeting. An initial development review team
(DRT) meeting between the responsible party, SWCD, county and LGU should be
held as early as possible in the process. Typically, submittal of a concept
plan for review initiates this process.
         (c)   Application submittal. A permit application which includes all
required exhibits described in § 153.40 shall be submitted to the county. This
should occur in conjunction with an application to the LGU.
         (d)   Application review and determination of completeness. The county
shall make a determination regarding the completeness of an application within
ten business days of the receipt of the application and notify the applicant if
the application is not complete. The county will make its decision in
accordance with M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from time to time.
         (e)   Approval. The responsible party shall not commence any
construction activity subject to this chapter until approval has been given by
Carver County. If the county determines that the application meets the
requirements of this chapter, the county may issue approval which authorizes
the project or activity.
            1.   Time period of approval. Construction activity must commence
within 18 months of the date of approval, or permit reapproval or
reverification is required.
            2.   Form of approval. Approval will typically be in the form of a
letter from the county to the applicant.
            3.   Incomplete/insufficient applications. If the application does
not meet the requirements, the county may issue conditional approval, meaning
approval contingent upon compliance with this chapter. If non-compliance is
substantial, the county may require a re-application.
            4.   Permit modifications. An approved application may be modified
following review and approval by the county. In reviewing the modifications,
the county may require additional submittals.
         (f)   Denial. If the responsible party fails to meet requirements the
county may deny the application. Reason for denial shall be in writing.
(Ord. 57-2005, passed 1-10-06; Am. Ord. 75-2012, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 83-
2016, passed 9-20-16; Am. Ord. 99-2022, passed 6-28-22)
APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.40 FEES.
   Responsible parties for approval of a project shall provide a fee as set
forth in the Carver County fee schedule.
(Ord. 57-2005, passed 1-10-06; Am. Ord. 75-2012, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 83-
2016, passed 9-20-16; Am. Ord. 99-2022, passed 6-28-22)
§ 153.41 SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS – GENERAL.
   An application containing the information listed under each permit level
section shall be submitted by the responsible party of a site or an authorized
representative. The responsible party must sign the application and cannot
transfer authority. At county discretion, less information may be required to
constitute a complete application.
(Ord. 99-2022, passed 6-28-22)
§ 153.42 EROSION CONTROL PERMIT – SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Location map. The map shall show the site location with property lines
in relation to surrounding roads, other geographic features, buildings and
other structures.
   (B)   Topography.
      (1)   Topography showing two-foot contours for the site, invert
elevations of existing storm sewer, and/or spot elevations of the conveyance
system from drainage discharge points to the nearest receiving waterbody and
for a minimum of 100 feet beyond the site boundary.
      (2)   Topography showing ten-foot contours for sub-watersheds upstream
and downstream of the project site. Where topography in the region is
characteristically flat or hydrologic flow path is undetermined, two-foot
contours may be required.
   (C)   Vegetation map. In areas where there has been a natural resource or
similar inventory, the map shall show the location of trees and vegetation on-
site, with identification of those trees and vegetation intended to be
retained.
   (D)   Landscape plan. The plan shall show proposed conditions and shall
contain the following:
      (1)   Pervious area identified in square feet or acres;
      (2)   Seed mix(es) or other vegetation type(s) proposed;
      (3)   Note that vegetation must be established to 90% coverage with 100%
coverage in areas of concentrated flow.
   (E)   Erosion and sediment control plan. The plan shall have both existing
and final proposed conditions drawn to scale, shall be consistent with the
manual Protecting Water Quality in Urban Areas (Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency, 2000) as revised, and shall include the following:
      (1)   Proposed area of grading or other land-disturbing activities and
delineation of the limits of disturbance including areas of grubbing, clearing,
tree removal, grading, excavation, fill and other disturbance;
      (2)   Quantity of soil or earth material to be removed, placed, stored or
otherwise moved on site;
      (3)   Locations and descriptions of proposed runoff control, erosion
prevention, sediment control and temporary and permanent soil stabilization
measures;
      (4)   A sequence of land alteration activity and corresponding
implementation of erosion control practices, monitoring, maintenance and
removal of erosion and sediment control measures; and permanent site
stabilization measures. Prior to commencing activity (following all necessary
approvals), the responsible party shall provide the SWCD with a construction
schedule which will include approximate dates for the following:
         (a)   Completion of installation of perimeter erosion and sediment
controls;
         (b)   Completion of required seeding and mulching activities;
         (c)   Completion of land-disturbing activities and putting into place
measures for final soil stabilization and re-vegetation;
         (d)   When the site will be permanently stabilized and re-vegetated;
         (e)   When all temporary erosion and sediment controls will be removed
from the site.
   (F)   SWPPP. The Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) developed for
the site to meet National Pollution Discharge Elimination System/State Disposal
System (NPDES/SDS) Phase II requirements shall be submitted as part of the
applications.
   (G)   Wetland protection. The plan shall have both existing and final
proposed conditions drawn to scale and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Delineated boundaries of wetlands as determined under the Wetland
Conservation Act;
      (2)   Boundaries of wetland transition setbacks, if applicable per §
153.59;
      (3)   Computations/calculations used to design the wetland transition
setback;
      (4)   Upon request, evidence of permits and process required under the
Wetland Conservation Act (WCA).
   (H)   Monumentation. Plans for sites with buffers including wetland and
shoreland setbacks, and sites with dedicated upland preserve areas must include
monumentation locations and notes per §
153.64 .
   (I)   Topsoil management plan. The plan shall include the following:
      (1)   Carver County topsoil standard or a site-specific topsoil standard
per §
153.62;
      (2)   Note that six inches of topsoil must be restored to all pervious
areas;
      (3)   Note regarding the topsoil standard:
         (a)   For sites that have not been previously graded and/or linear
reconstruction projects, the note must state that topsoil must meet the Carver
County topsoil standard or an approved site specific topsoil standard. If
topsoil does not meet the standard, it must be amended or topsoil meeting the
standard must be imported to the site.
         (b)   For sites that have been graded after 2016, the note must state
that topsoil must meet the Carver County topsoil standard or a previously
approved site-specific standard for the site. If topsoil does not meet the
standard, it must be amended or topsoil meeting the standard must be imported
to the site.
         (c)   For non-linear sites that were mass-graded before 2016, the note
must state that if topsoil does not meet the Carver County topsoil standard,
two inches of compost must be added to the soil and tilled to a depth of six
inches;
      (4)   Note that subsoil must be de-compacted to a depth of six inches
prior to placement of topsoil;
      (5)   Location(s) where topsoil is to be reapplied;
      (6)   Quantity of topsoil needed to restore six inches in all pervious
areas;
      (7)   Location of stockpile(s), if existing topsoil is to be stockpiled
on site;
      (8)   Method of topsoil testing.
   (J)   Additional information as relevant and necessary to evaluate an
application may be required. Requests for additional information shall be
submitted in writing to the responsible party and shall specify requirements
for submittal to the county.
(Ord. 57-2005, passed 1-10-06; Am. Ord. 75-2012, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 83-
2016, passed 9-20-16; Am. Ord. 99-2022, passed 6-28-22)
§ 153.43 STORMWATER PERMIT - SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All requirements per §§
153.42 and
153.43 must be submitted.
   (B)   Stormwater management plan. The stormwater management plan shall
contain the following:
      (1)   Existing and proposed sub-watershed boundaries, upstream and
downstream hydrologic flow paths, all on-site water features (including waters
of the state), drainage patterns, flow directions, floodplain, and shoreland
shown on separate figures;
      (2)   Location and amount of existing and proposed impervious area
including roads, trails, parking areas, and building areas;
      (3)   Location, alignment, and elevation of existing and proposed
stormwater facilities;
      (4)   Construction plans and specifications for all proposed facilities
designed to meet requirements of §§
153.55 through
153.64;
      (5)   Hydrologic calculations for runoff volume, velocities, and peak
flow rates using Atlas 14 precipitation depths and storm distributions for the
two-year rainfall event; ten-year, 24-hour storm event; 100-year, 24-hour storm
event; and 100-year, ten-day snowmelt event for existing and proposed
conditions;
      (6)   All hydrologic, hydraulic, and water quality computations completed
to design the proposed facilities, including a demonstration of conformance
with the water quality and volume control requirements of §
153.56;
      (7)   Curve numbers used to calculate runoff; curve numbers used to
calculate runoff shall be based on TR 55, Second Edition, June 1986, Table 2 2a
with the following changes:
         (a)   Cover type "open space" will be based on the amount of topsoil
as well as grass cover. Less than six inches of topsoil equals poor condition;
and more than six inches of topsoil equals good condition;
         (b)   Curve numbers used for cover types "urban districts" and
"residential districts" assume at least six inches of topsoil and six inches of
non-compacted subsoil soil based on the standards in §
153.62, Topsoil Management.
      (8)   Existing and proposed normal water level, high water level, and
emergency overflow elevations for the site;
      (9)   For sites requiring extended detention, calculations showing the
two-year storm discharge reduced by 50% of existing conditions to demonstrate
compliance with the extended detention requirement. The minimum outlet diameter
shall be six inches;
      (10)   Plans, specifications and computations for stormwater management
facilities submitted for review shall be signed by a professional engineer
licensed in the State of Minnesota.
   (C)   Operation and maintenance plan. The operation and maintenance plan
shall identify the BMPs constructed as part of the project and shall contain
the following:
      (1)   Description of inspection and maintenance activities for the
stormwater BMPs;
      (2)   Timeline of inspection and maintenance activities for the
stormwater BMPs;
      (3)   Contact information for the parties responsible for inspection and
maintenance;
      (4)   Signatures of the parties responsible for inspection and
maintenance.
   (D)   Additional information as relevant and necessary to evaluate an
application may be required. Requests for additional information shall be
submitted in writing to the responsible party and shall specify requirements
for submittal to the county.
   (E)   At county discretion, less information may be required to constitute a
complete application.
(Ord. 99-2022, passed 6-28-22)
§ 153.44 STREAM CROSSINGS PERMIT - SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For projects which construct, reconstruct, or remove crossings as
defined in these rules, except for dams and bridges as defined in these rules,
the following information must be submitted.
      (1)   Location map. A map showing the site location with property lines
in relation to surrounding roads, other geographic features, buildings and
other structures.
      (2)   Topography. Topography showing two-foot contours for the site,
invert elevations of existing storm sewer, and/or spot elevations of the
conveyance system from drainage discharge points to the nearest receiving
waterbody and for a minimum of 100 feet beyond the site boundary. Topography
showing ten-foot contours for subwatersheds upstream and downstream of the
project site. Where topography in the region is characteristically flat or
hydrologic flow path is undetermined, two-foot contours may be required.
      (3)   Project description. Dimensions, invert elevation(s), and location
(s) of the proposed and, if applicable, existing structure.
      (4)   Nearby structures. Locations and elevations of existing structures,
pipes, or other constructed features upstream and downstream of the site, which
have the potential to be impacted by proposed changes in the two-, ten-, and
100-year hydraulic profile of the waterbody. This may be shown on an aerial
photograph.
      (5)   Erosion and sediment control plan. An erosion and sediment control
plan showing existing and final proposed conditions drawn to scale that is
consistent with the manual Protecting Water Quality in Urban Areas (Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency, 2000) as revised and includes the following:
         (a)   Proposed area of grading or other land-disturbing activities and
delineation of the limits of disturbance including areas of grubbing, clearing,
tree removal, grading, excavation, fill and other disturbance;
         (b)   Quantity of soil or earth material to be removed, placed, stored
or otherwise moved on site;
         (c)   Locations and descriptions of proposed runoff control, erosion
prevention, sediment control and temporary and permanent soil stabilization
measures;
         (d)   A sequence of land alteration activity and corresponding
implementation of erosion control practices, monitoring, maintenance and
removal of erosion and sediment control measures; and permanent site
stabilization measures. Prior to commencing activity (following all necessary
approvals), the responsible party shall provide the SWCD with a construction
schedule which will include approximate dates for the following:
            1.   Completion of installation of perimeter erosion and sediment
controls;
            2.   Completion of required seeding and mulching activities;
            3.   Completion of land-disturbing activities and putting into
place measures for final soil stabilization and re-vegetation;
            4.   When the site will be permanently stabilized and re-vegetated;
            5.   When all temporary erosion and sediment controls will be
removed from the site.
      (6)   Dewatering plan. Plan indicating several options for dewatering or
by-passing, depending on site conditions at the time of construction. Once the
contractor has selected a stream diversion option, the SWCD must be notified so
that the plan can be reviewed and approved.
      (7)   Channel bottom information. Information regarding the existing and
proposed channel bottom materials. If rip-rap must be used, an explanation of
the need should be provided.
      (8)   For projects in the FEMA floodway or 100-year floodplain:
         (a)   Quantity of fill within the 100-year floodplain;
         (b)   Existing and proposed 100-year floodplain storage volumes to
document that there is no net change to floodplain storage. If fill will be
added, a note signed by a professional engineer documenting that the change in
storage has no significant impact on the flood elevation;
         (c)   Figure showing the extent of the designated floodway and 100-
year flood plain.
      (9)   Additional information as relevant and necessary to evaluate an
application may be required. Requests for additional information shall be
submitted in writing to the responsible party and shall specify requirements
for submittal to the county.
   (B)   For projects which construct, reconstruct, or remove bridges as
defined in these rules or dams, the following information must be submitted.
      (1)   All requirements per §
153.42 must be submitted.
      (2)   Hydraulic report prepared by a professional engineer.
      (3)   Risk assessment form prepared by a registered professional engineer
in the State of Minnesota.
      (4)   Profile showing existing structures and 100-year flow elevation for
existing and proposed conditions. Flow elevation in the two- and ten-year storm
events may also be required.
      (5)   Inundation maps showing existing structures and 100-year flow
elevation for existing and proposed conditions. Flow elevation in the two- and
ten-year storm events may also be required.
      (6)   Cross sectional flow area at 100-year flow elevation for existing
and proposed conditions. For sites with low-lying land, or structures, pipes,
or other constructed features at elevations that are at risk of being affected
by changes in the two- and ten-year hydraulic profile, the cross-sectional flow
area at the two- and ten-year flow elevations will also be required.
      (7)   Changes to water surface elevations between no-bridge, existing,
and proposed conditions. This information should be provided for a range of
river stations and should encompass, at a minimum, the point upstream and
downstream of the structure at which the project results in no change in water
surface elevation.
      (8)   For projects on public waters, provide a copy of the permit package
submitted to the DNR. Additional information as relevant and necessary to
evaluate an application may be required. Requests for additional information
shall be submitted in writing to the responsible party and shall specify
requirements for submittal to the county.
   (C)   At county discretion, less information may be required to constitute a
complete application.
(Ord. 99-2022, passed 6-28-22)
§ 153.45 MAINTENANCE PERMIT - SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Completed maintenance notification form, submitted a minimum of ten
business days prior to the start of the project. If it is not possible to
submit a form ten business days prior to the start of the project, notification
should be provided as soon as possible and the county reserves the right to
provide review comments within ten business days of receipt.
   (B)   Sketches, maps, drawings and plans relating to the proposed project.
   (C)   Certain submittal items per §
153.42 may be required.
   (D)   Additional information as relevant and necessary to evaluate an
application may be required. Requests for additional information shall be
submitted in writing to the responsible party and shall specify requirements
for submittal to the county.
(Ord. 99-2022, passed 6-28-22)
STANDARDS
§ 153.55 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL DESIGN AND OPERATIONAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Carver County adopts and incorporates by reference the erosion and
sediment control design and operational standards as set forth in Minnesota
Permit R100001 (the general permit authorization to discharge storm water
associated with construction activity under the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System), as amended from time to time.
   (B)   Land altering activity shall not result in the detrimental deposition
of sediment or construction materials into the waters of the state or onto
neighboring property. Erosion and sediment control facilities must be installed
prior to commencing any construction activity.
   (C)   Erosion and sediment control measures must be designed and maintained
to prevent the detrimental deposition of sediment or construction materials
into the waters of the state or onto neighboring property. There are a variety
of publications available that describe BMP’s that can be used to meet these
standards. Examples of BMP’s can be found in:
      (1)   Minnesota Stormwater Manual, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, as
amended from time to time; and
      (2)   Erosion Control Handbook, Minnesota Department of Transportation,
2006.
(Ord. 57-2005, passed 1-10-06; Am. Ord. 75-2012, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 83-
2016, passed 9-20-16; Am. Ord. 99-2022, passed 6-28-22)
§ 153.56 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Stormwater BMP design.
      (1)   Design standards. BMPs shall be designed according to the design
standards included in Appendix A: Volume and Water Quality Calculations.
Compliance with the water quality treatment standard will be calculated by the
applicant using Appendix A: Volume and Water Quality Calculations or industry
standard water quality models.
      (2)   The Minnesota Stormwater Manual, Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency, as amended from time to time is a supplemental resource, which provides
examples of BMPs and design, construction and maintenance guidelines.
      (3)   The county spreadsheet calculator tool may be used to track and
document stormwater treatment requirements and credits. Other stormwater
calculator tools may also be used.
   (B)   Treatment volume requirements.
      (1)   All projects requiring stormwater treatment must meet the
requirements for rate, water quality and volume described in §§
153.56(E) through
153.56(G). Treatment must be designed for the volume of water draining to the
feature.
      (2)   Non-linear projects. The treatment volume must be calculated as one
inch times the sum of new and fully reconstructed impervious surface.
      (3)   Linear projects. The treatment volume must be calculated as the
larger of one-inch times the new impervious surface or one-half-inch times the
sum of the new and fully reconstructed impervious surface.
   (C)   Treatment locations/sequencing.
      (1)   Treatment locations.
         (a)   Water quality. Water quality treatment must be provided on-site
prior to discharging stormwater runoff to a receiving waterbody.
            1.   Non-linear projects and new linear projects. If it is not
feasible to provide full water quality treatment prior to discharge to a
receiving waterbody, structural treatment for TSS removal must be provided at a
minimum. Full water quality treatment shall then be provided at a two-to-one
ratio at a discharge point to a different receiving waterbody.
            2.   Linear reconstruction projects. Additional right of way,
easements or permissions should be obtained to provide treatment within the
drainage area to the same waterbody. If additional right of way, easements, or
permissions cannot be obtained, full water quality treatment shall then be
provided to a discharge point to a different receiving waterbody within the
project area. If it is not feasible to provide full water quality treatment
prior to discharging to a receiving waterbody, structural treatment for TSS
removal must be provided at a minimum.
         (b)   Volume control. Volume control must be provided on-site within
the same DNR catchment area as the construction activity.
         (c)   Offsite treatment sequencing. If water quality and/or volume
treatment cannot be fully provided on-site in a cost-effective manner per
divisions (C)(1)(a) and (b), the offsite treatment may be utilized to provide
remaining treatment at locations in the following order of preference. The
combination of on-site and off-site treatment must yield the minimum required
stormwater benefit and be approved by the county prior to construction.
         (d)   Order of preference for offsite treatment:
            1.   To a location that yields benefits to the same receiving water
that receives runoff from the original construction activity.
            2.   Within the same DNR catchment area as the impact.
            3.   In the next adjacent DNR catchment area upstream.
            4.   Any feasible location within the CCWMO.
   (D)   Alternative compliance options. If specific site conditions may make
water quality treatment and/or volume control treatment difficult, undesirable
or impossible and offsite treatment is not feasible, the applicant may submit a
request to the county for alternative compliance treatment. Alternative
compliance options are only available following the sequencing steps outlined
above (§
153.56 (C)(1)(c)). All requests for alternative compliance shall address the
treatment location sequencing steps, indicate the specific site conditions and
limitations present, and include the applicable submittals per §§
153.42 through
153.43. The county may request site-specific information, such as soils data,
local water table data and correspondence from parties affected by the project
when deciding on alternative compliance eligibility.
      (1)   Banked credits. Water quality treatment and volume reduction
credits may be purchased from qualifying banks. To qualify, the bank must be
within the CCWMO and must be reviewed and approved by the county per the water
rules in place at the time of approval. Banked credit locations will be
reviewed by the county according to the order of preference for alternative
compliance treatment locations. Applicants shall submit a letter to the county
outlining the conditions of the transfer and confirming the volume of the
transfer. The county must review and approve all credit transfers.
      (2)   In-lieu fee. The applicant may choose to pay into the county's
Stormwater Treatment In-Lieu Fund to cover the cost of implementing equivalent
stormwater treatment elsewhere in the CCWMO.
         (a)   The required amount to contribute to the In-Lieu Fund shall be
based on the cost of planning, designing, constructing and maintaining
stormwater BMP(s) that provide the required water quality treatment and/or
volume reduction credit. This amount shall be calculated as:
            1.   The flat fee per cubic foot of stormwater treatment required
based on the Carver County fee schedule, as update from time to time; or
            2.   Eighty percent (80%) of the estimated cost provided by the
applicant, provided as an itemized list, and as reviewed and approved by the
county.
         (b)   Money contributed to the Stormwater Treatment In-Lieu Fund shall
be allocated to water quality treatment and/or volume reduction projects by the
county according to the water plan, local stormwater management plans and the
county's list of stormwater improvements as updated from time to time. The
treatment achieved by these projects will offset the treatment that was not
achieved on the permitted development.
      (3)   Credit banking. Water quality treatment credit and volume reduction
credit provided in excess of the treatment requirement may be banked for use on
another project. Excess banked credit amounts shall not exceed stormwater
credit awarded for the BMP by the county. The county must review and approve
all banking credits generated.
   (E)   Rate control standard.
      (1)   Peak rates. The peak rates shall not increase from existing
conditions for the two-, ten-, 100-year storm events, and the 100-year, ten-day
snowmelt event. Peak rates shall be calculated using Atlas 14 precipitation
depths and storm distributions.
      (2)   Conveyance system. At a minimum, the storm sewer conveyance system
shall be designed for a ten-year, 24-hour storm event. The pond and pond outlet
structure shall handle the 100-year, 24-hour storm event.
   (F)   Water quality standard.
      (1)   Total Phosphorus (TP) removal standards. The stormwater management
plan must remove 90% of the TP generated by the site under developed
conditions.
      (2)   Total Suspended Solids (TSS) removal standards. The stormwater
management plan must remove 90% of the TSS generated by the site under
developed conditions.
      (3)   BMP sizing. Treatment areas must be sized appropriately for the
area draining to the feature.
   (G)   Volume control standards.
      (1)   Volume control standard. The stormwater management plan must
provide volume control for:
         (a)   One inch from the impervious surface for unconstrained sites.
         (b)   One-half inch from the impervious surface for constrained sites.
      (2)   BMP sizing. Volume control areas must be sized appropriately for
the area draining to the feature.
      (3)   Volume control standard for constrained sites. Specific site
conditions may make volume control difficult, undesirable, or impossible. If
these conditions are present, the site may qualify as "constrained," subject to
county review and determination. Some of these conditions are listed in Table
1. The applicant may also submit a request to the county for constrained site
eligibility for site conditions not listed below. All requests for constrained
site eligibility shall indicate the specific site conditions present and
include a grading plan, utility plan and the submittal requirement listed in
Table 1.
      Table 1. Constrained Site Conditions.
 
Type                 Specific Site        Volume Reduction Submittal
                     Condition            Limitation       Requirement
                     Potential stormwater Infiltration
                     hotspots/industrial  prohibited       - -
                     facilities
Potential            Contaminated soils   Infiltration     Soil analysis
contamination                             prohibited
                                                           Site map with
                     Vehicle fueling and  Infiltration     vehicle fueling/
                     maintenance areas    prohibited       maintenance areas
                                                           shown
                                                           1) Carver County
                                                           soil survey data
                                                           showing greater than
                                                           50% of site is
                                                           hydrologic group C
                                                           and D soils; or
                                                           2) Carver County
                                                           soil survey data
                                                           showing greater than
                                                           50% of site has the
                                                           following unified
                                                           soil
                                                           classifications: MH,
                                                           ML, GS, SC, CL, OL,
                                                           CH, OH
                                                           3) Documentation
                                                           that site has been
                     Low permeability     Infiltration     previously disturbed
                     soils                restricted       by construction
                                                           activity that
Physical limitations                                       resulted in
                                                           compaction and/or
                                                           other significant
                                                           reduction in
                                                           permeability as
                                                           shown by field
                                                           infiltration test
                                                           rate showing
                                                           infiltration rate of
                                                           less than 0.3 inches
                                                           per hour; or
                                                           4) Documentation of
                                                           field infiltration
                                                           tests showing
                                                           infiltration rate of
                                                           less than 0.3 inches
                                                           per hour.
                     Bedrock or                            Soil borings
                     groundwater within   Infiltration     required; Piezometer
                     three vertical feet  restricted       data may be
                     of bottom of volume                   required.
                     control practice                       
                     Wellhead protection  Infiltration     Site map with
Land use limitations areas                restricted       wellhead protection
                                                           areas shown
 
   (H)   High water elevation standard.
      (1)   As described below, all applications shall provide vertical
separation between low openings of new and existing structures and high water
elevations of local existing and proposed stormwater facilities and surface
waters. The high water elevations used should be the greater between the 100-
year, 24-hour or 100-year, ten-day high water elevations. Emergency overflows
are required for all ponds and basins.
         (a)   Low opening of new and existing structures must have a minimum
of two feet of separation from local high water level.
         (b)   Low floor of new and existing structures must have a minimum of
one foot of vertical separation from local high water level.
         (c)   In rare cases where an emergency overflow (overland or pipe) is
not feasible, the low opening vertical separation is increased to three feet.
      (2)   The requirements described above can be waived for non-habitable
structures if an LGU allows for less vertical separation from high water
elevations based on flood-proofing standards included in a building code.
      (3)   If side or rear yard overflow swales are constructed, the cities
should document through the building permitting and inspection process that
high water levels for side or rear yard overflow swales are below the low
openings of structures.
   (I)   Requirements for maintenance and access.
      (1)   Maintenance of stormwater facilities. All stormwater management
structures and facilities must be designed to allow access for maintenance and
must be properly maintained in perpetuity to ensure that they continue to
function according to the approved design.
      (2)   Maintenance agreement. No stormwater plan may be approved unless a
maintenance agreement is provided that defines maintenance responsibilities
following completion of the project, specifies types and frequency of
inspection and maintenance activities, and specifies who will conduct
inspections and maintenance activities. A sample agreement and list of
inspection/maintenance activities are included in the Carver County Water
Resource Management Ordinance and BMP guidelines.
         (a)   Prior to project close out return of the financial security, an
agreement shall be in place regarding maintenance responsibilities.
         (b)   Maintenance responsibilities must be assumed by either the local
government unit (LGU) or by the responsible party. If the LGU is assuming
maintenance responsibilities, written acknowledgment and acceptance is needed
from the LGU.
         (c)   If the Local Government Unit (LGU) is assuming maintenance
responsibilities, a single memorandum of agreement for each LGU may be used to
cover all stormwater management structures and facilities required by this
ordinance within the LGU's jurisdiction.
         (d)   The agreement must be executed and recorded in a format
acceptable to the county. The recordable executed agreement must be submitted
to the county prior to release of financial security for the project.
      (3)   Drainage and utility easement. A drainage and utility easement is
required in the following situations:
         (a)   When a stormwater management BMP must be placed on private
property.
         (b)   When changes caused by a land disturbing activity result in
alterations to flow paths which impound or slow down water on an adjacent
property.
         (c)   When changes caused by a land disturbing activity reroute water
onto a neighboring property, where it wasn't previously routed.
(Ord. 57-2005, passed 1-10-06; Am. Ord. 75-2012, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 83-
2016, passed 9-20-16; Am. Ord. 99-2022, passed 6-28-22)
§ 153.57 STREAM CROSSING STANDARDS.
   Construction, replacement, removal, or improvement of a crossing as defined
in these rules will:
   (A)   Retain adequate hydraulic capacity and assure no net increase in the
flood stage of the pertinent waterbody.
   (B)   Not change the existing flowline/gradient, or cause increased scour,
erosion or sedimentation.
   (C)   Not adversely impact properties adjacent to the stream (examples
include impeding drainage, inundation of land or structures in the two-year
event or higher, and the like).
   (D)   Mimic channel bottom relative to upstream and downstream conditions.
Lining channel bottoms with riprap should be avoided when possible.
   (E)   Maintain existing fish passage in the waterbody for fish species
native to the area.
(Ord. 99-2022, passed 6-28-22)
§ 153.58 MAINTENANCE PERMIT STANDARDS.
   Projects meeting the standards described below automatically qualify for a
general maintenance permit.
   (A)   For all projects meeting the thresholds described in §
153.44, a general maintenance notification form must be submitted to the county
ten business days prior to the start of the activity. The county reserves the
right to provide review comments within ten business days of receipt.
   (B)   Projects which involve the replacement of existing crossings as
defined in these rules and result in changes to the hydraulic profile of the
waterbody in the two-, ten-, and 100-year storm events that are minor enough to
result in no adverse impacts to structures or watercourses:
      (1)   Crossing replacement may not result in a net increase in the flood
stage of the pertinent waterbodyfrom the existing bridge condition;
      (2)   Crossing replacement may not adversely affect water quality, change
the existing flowline/gradient, or cause increased scour, erosion or
sedimentation;
      (3)   Crossing replacement must be timed in a way to protect the surface
water from sediment pollution (i.e., during frozen conditions or not preceding
a forecasted rain event);
      (4)   Bare areas must be stabilized with erosion control BMPs,
vegetation, and/or other approved measures according to the stabilization
timelines identified in the general NPDES permit, as amended from time to time;
      (5)   If sediment has been discharged downstream as a result of the
project, it may need to be removed and the area restored;
      (6)   Energy dissipation may be needed.
   (C)   Projects which involve slip-lining culverts. The project must maintain
the hydraulic capacity of the existing structure to the extent practicable.
   (D)   Projects which use chip seal pavement surface treatment:
      (1)   Inlet protection must be used on any structures that may be
affected by the project;
      (2)   If any material has been discharged downstream as a result of the
project, it may need to be removed and the area restored.
   (E)   Projects which involve horizontal drilling and are within sensitive
areas (utility maintenance and construction projects that part of a larger plan
of development are exempt). If drillers mud has been discharged downstream or
into a surface water as a result of the project, it may need to be removed and
the area restored.
   (F)   Projects which maintain or restore the function of stormwater BMPs by
replacing structures or filtration media, dredging, grading, or other
activities beyond routine maintenance (i.e., sediment removal, trash removal,
vegetation management).
      (1)   Record drawings documenting the elevations of structures, inverts,
basin bottoms, and/or other relevant details must be collected before and after
the maintenance activity is performed and sent to the county.
      (2)   If the project results in a loss of BMP function, work to restore
the function of the BMP will be required (restoring approved elevations, and
the like).
(Ord. 99-2022, passed 6-28-22)
§ 153.59 SURFACE WATER PROTECTION AND SETBACK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Wetland conservation act implementation. Carver County adopts and
incorporates by reference the Minnesota Wetland Conservation Act and its
implementing rules as set forth in Minn. Rules chapter 8420, as amended
periodically.
   (B)   Transition setbacks for surface water protection.
      (1)   Requirement. Establishment or preservation of an unmanicured,
vegetated, transition setback adjacent and contiguous to wetlands, lakes,
streams, rivers, and public and private ditches is required for projects
meeting the thresholds described in §
153.43. For projects where the construction activity does not occupy the full
parcel, the requirement for setbacks applies only to the portion of the parcel
where construction activity is taking place.
      (2)   Exempt activities. Activities meeting the exemption requirements of
Minn. Rule 8420 are exempt from these requirements. Wetlands or portions of
wetlands impacted and mitigated through Minn. Rule 8420 are exempt from these
setback requirements.
      (3)   Determining setback widths.
         (a)   Reference point. The setback width will be measured from:
            1.   The delineated wetland edge for wetlands; For wetlands without
an approved wetland boundary and type, the wetland boundary shall be determined
based on aerial review. NWI mapping may be used if aerial photography is not
available.
            2.   The top of bank for streams and rivers.
            3.   The ordinary high-water level (OHWL) for lakes; for lakes
without an approved OHWL, the water's edge as determined based on aerial review
shall be used.
         (b)   Base width. The base width for a transition setback is 20 feet
for wetlands and 30 feet for lakes and streams.
         (c)   Minimum width. The minimum width for a transition setback is:
            1.   Thirty feet for lakes, and streams.
            2.   Thirty feet for wetlands that receive a ranking of "high"
value in the Carver County Wetland Function and Value Assessment or an
equivalent wetland function and value assessment.
            3.   Twenty feet for wetlands, except for "high" value wetlands.
         (d)   Applied width. The setback width shall be adjusted to reflect
site conditions based on the criteria below. The maximum applied width is 50
feet.
            1.   Stormwater treatment. The base width must be increased by ten
feet in areas where untreated stormwater runoff from impervious surfaces is
directed to the surface water and not stormwater BMPs.
            2.   Slopes. For every 5% increase in average setback slope from
5%, the base width must be increased five feet in the area where the slope
increase exists.
 
Average Setback Slope Increase in Setback Width
   0-5% slope      No increase
   5-10% slope     Add 5 feet to base width
   10-15% slope    Add 10 feet to base width
   >15% slope      Add 15 feet to base width
 
         (e)   Flexibility in applied width. The county retains the right to
allow the setback width to vary and the minimum width to be reduced based on
demonstrated site constraints, to allow unique BMPs, or to allow other
activities that protect and enhance the surface water resource. Adjustments to
the applied width may not result in a reduction to the total setback area and
the adjusted setback must provide surface water protection at least equivalent
to a setback of uniform width (e.g., the setback area may be reduced in one
area adjacent to the surface water if the area is replaced at a one-to-one
ratio elsewhere around the same resource).
         (f)   Subject to county approval, the total setback area may be
reduced if the area is replaced at a two-to-one ratio around another surface
water of comparable value on site.
         (g)   Linear projects. For linear projects, non-impervious portions of
the right of way are allowed within the setback.
         (h)   Access. In situations where the setback is entirely on private
property, limited clearing and trimming of trees, shrubs, and other vegetation
within the setback is allowed to create an access path to the waters edge. The
path shall not exceed 12 feet in width.
      (4)   Setback vegetation requirements.
         (a)   Setback vegetation shall not be cultivated, cropped, pastured,
mowed, fertilized, subject to the placement of mulch or yard waste or otherwise
disturbed, except for:
            1.   Periodic cutting or burning that promotes the health of the
setback or to maintain the proposed natural community;
            2.   Removal of trees, limbs, or branches that are dead, diseased,
or pose safety hazards;
            3.   Actions to address disease or invasive species;
            4.   Mowing for purposes of public safety;
            5.   Mowing or clearing of trees and shrubs to create an access
path no more than 12 feet in width to allow access to the water resource;
            6.   Temporary disturbance for placement or repair of buried
utilities; or
            7.   Other actions to maintain or improve setback quality, each as
approved by the CCWMO.
         (b)   Pesticides and herbicides may be used in accordance with
Minnesota Department of Agriculture rules and guidelines.
         (c)   Once vegetation is established in a setback, no fill, debris or
other material shall be excavated from or placed within a setback except as
allowed under § 153.59(B)(4)(a).
         (d)   Areas of the transition setback that will be disturbed by
grading activities during construction, shall be planted according to the
following standards:
            1.   Soils must be decompacted to a depth of 18 inches and organic
matter must be incorporated into soils before seeding or planting. Decompaction
shall be accomplished solely by incorporation of organic matter within the drip
line or critical root zone of trees or within ten feet of underground
utilities.
            2.   Transition setback areas shall be planted with a native seed
mix and/or native plantings approved by the CCWMO.
      (5)   Recording of setback. The setback shall be documented by a
declaration or other document approved by the CCWMO or municipality and
recorded in the office of the County Recorder before the permit will be issued.
      (6)   Monumentation. The setback shall be indicated by permanent, free-
standing markers at the setback's upland edge. Monumentation shall conform with
the guidelines described in §
153.62 .
      (7)   Maintenance. The setback shall be maintained in accordance with the
provisions outlined in the Carver County Water Management Ordinance and BMP
guidelines and with any applicable establishment and maintenance plans.
(Ord. 57-2005, passed 1-10-06; Am. Ord. 75-2012, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 83-
2016, passed 9-20-16; Am. Ord. 99-2022, passed 6-28-22)
§ 153.60 SHORELAND STANDARDS.
   (A)   This chapter applies only in situations where a protected water exists
but the LGU responsible for land use planning and zoning has not adopted a DNR-
approved shoreland ordinance.
   (B)   All development and land use changes shall meet the setback
requirements of Minn. Rules Parts 6120.3300 and 6120.3400, as they may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 57-2005, passed 1-10-06; Am. Ord. 75-2012, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 83-
2016, passed 9-20-16; Am. Ord. 99-2022, passed 6-28-22)
§ 153.61 FLOODPLAIN STANDARDS.
   (A)   This section applies in situations where the floodway and 100-year
flood elevation have been defined by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   (B)   Regulation.
      (1)   Fill in the floodway. Placement of fill in the floodway shall not
be allowed.
      (2)   Fill in the 100-year flood elevation.
         (a)   Placement of up to 50 cubic yards of fill below the 100-year
flood elevation for the purposes of restoring or stabilizing soils, banks, or
slopes shall be allowed.
         (b)   Placement of more than 50 cubic yards of fill below the 100-year
flood elevation for the purposes of restoring or stabilizing soils, banks, or
slopes or any amount of fill placed below the 100-year flood elevation for
other purposes shall not be allowed unless it is shown that the proposed fill
can be mitigated through provision of compensatory storage, or will not cause a
net decrease in flood storage.
         (c)   Placement of fill for the construction of linear public projects
that are necessary in order to meet state or federal safety standards or
requirements shall meet the following requirements:
            1.   If it can be demonstrated that the fill will not cause a net
decrease in flood storage, compensatory storage is not required.
            2.   If analysis shows that the fill will cause a net decrease in
flood storage, compensatory storage must be provided per the requirements
described in §
153.61(C) below.
   (C)   Requirements for compliance.
      (1)   Fill placed below the 100-year flood elevation must not
hydraulically separate one area of the floodplain from another.
      (2)   Demonstration that the placement of fill will not cause a net
decrease in storage must be provided by a professional engineer licensed in the
State of Minnesota.
      (3)   Compensatory storage must be created prior to or concurrent with
the placement of fill.
      (4)   Siting of compensatory storage must follow this priority order:
         (a)   On the same property as the affected floodplain;
         (b)   On properties adjacent to the affected floodplain;
         (c)   In the same major watershed as the affected floodplain.
      (5)   Meeting the requirements of this section does not constitute
compliance with an existing DNR-approved local floodplain ordinance.
(Ord. 57-2005, passed 1-10-06; Am. Ord. 75-2012, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 83-
2016, passed 9-20-16; Am. Ord. 99-2022, passed 6-28-22)
§ 153.62 TOPSOIL MANAGEMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Requirement. A minimum of six inches of topsoil must be provided in
all green space areas of the project. Topsoil shall meet one of the topsoil
standards described in §
153.62(B) below. When available on-site, topsoil shall be managed to protect
and/or restore soil permeability to non-compacted soil conditions following
construction.
      
   (B)   Topsoil standards.
      (1)   Carver County topsoil standard.
Table 2. Carver County Topsoil Standard.
Requirement Range Test Method
Requirement                       Range                           Test Method
Material passing the ¾ in [19 mm]100%                            ASTM D 422
Material passing No 4 in [4.75    85%                             -
mm]
Clay                              5% - 33%                        ASTM D 422
Silt                              5% - 35%                        ASTM D 422
Sand                              30% - 75%                       ASTM D 422
Organic matter                    2.5% - 15%                      ASTM D 2974
pH                                6.1 - 8.0                       ASTM G 51
                                  - 1,400 kilopascals (kPa) / 200
                                  pounds per square inch (psi) in
                                  the upper 12 inches of soil, or
Compaction                        - bulk density of less than 1.4 Field test
                                  grams per cubic centimeter (g/
                                  cm3) in the upper 12 inches of
                                  soil
 
      (2)   Match existing soils. For linear reconstruction projects and sites
that have not been previously graded, a site-specific topsoil standard can be
developed using one of the methods described below:
         (a)   Soil survey data. A site-specific topsoil standard can be
developed using information on physical soil properties from the Natural
Resource Conservation Service’s Web Soil Survey for Carver County. The proposed
site-specific standard must be submitted prior to permit approval;
         (b)   Onsite testing. A site-specific topsoil standard may be
developed using onsite sampling results. Sample results and the proposed site-
specific standard must be submitted prior to permit approval.
            1.   Non-linear projects. One sample shall be collected of the top
12 inches of soil from each soil map unit within the disturbed area of the
project. Alternatively, a minimum of two samples can be collected per five
acres disturbed, from locations that characterize the site overall or from
which topsoil will be stripped and stockpiled. Samples shall be collected and
analyzed for percent clay, percent sand, percent silt, organic matter content,
and pH. A site-specific standard shall then be developed using a weighted
average of the samples collected on site.
            2.   Linear projects. One composite sample shall be collected in
select areas where grading and topsoil replacement are proposed, or at a
density of approximately one sample per mile. Each composite sample will be
comprised of eight individual samples collected of the top 12 inches of soil.
Samples shall be collected and analyzed for percent clay, percent sand, percent
silt, organic matter content, and pH. A site-specific standard shall then be
developed using a weighted average of the samples collected on site.
      (3)   Site-specific standard. Clay, sand silt standards. To develop a
site-specific topsoil standard for clay, sand, and silt:
         (a)   Calculate the weighted average for each parameter.
         (b)   Round to the nearest whole number.
         (c)   When the rounded average matches the lower end of the standard
range, subtract 3% from the low end of the CCWMO standard range to establish
the lower end of the site-specific standard.
         (d)   When the rounded average matches the upper end of the standard
range, add 3% to the high end of the CCWMO standard range to establish the
upper end of the site-specific standard.
         (e)   When the rounded average falls below the CCWMO standard range,
subtract 3% from the rounded average and use that value as the lower end of the
site-specific standard.
         (f)   When the rounded average falls above the CCWMO standard range,
add 3% from the rounded average and use that value as the high end of the site-
specific standard.
         (g)   If the weighted average falls within the CCWMO standard range,
use the CCWMO standard range.
         (h)   Organic matter, pH, and compaction standards. All site-specific
topsoil standards shall include the ranges described in the Carver County
Topsoil Standard for organic matter, pH, and compaction. The ranges for organic
matter, pH and compaction may not be changed for the site-specific topsoil
standard.
      (4)   Non-linear sites that were mass-graded before 2016 are not eligible
to create a site-specific topsoil standard. For these sites, if topsoil does
not meet the Carver County Topsoil Standard, two inches of compost must be
added to the soil and tilled to a depth of six inches. No further amendment
will be required.
   (C)   Topsoil replacement methods.
      (1)   (a)   Stockpile existing material and re-spread. When available,
on-site topsoil shall be stripped and stockpiled for later reapplication.
Stockpiled topsoil shall meet the standard selected for the project. If
stockpiled material does not meet the selected standard for the project, the
material shall be amended to meet the selected standard or topsoil meeting the
selected standard shall be imported to the site.
         (b)   Stockpile testing. The stockpile shall be tested prior to re-
spreading. Sample results must be submitted to county staff a minimum of two
business days prior to re-spreading. Topsoil test results are valid for one
year.
      (2)   Import material and spread. If topsoil is not available on-site due
to previous construction activity and existing material cannot be amended to
meet the Carver County Topsoil Standard, topsoil meeting the standard shall be
imported to the site.
   (D)   Submittal requirements. A topsoil management plan shall be submitted
as part of the application for erosion and sediment control permits and shall
include information on the topsoil management strategies to be utilized to
maintain soil permeability at or above required standards. Required components
of the topsoil management plan are outlined in §
153.43(I).
(Ord. 83-2016, passed 9-20-16; Am. Ord. 99-2022, passed 6-28-22)
§ 153.63 UPSTREAM AND DOWNSTREAM IMPACT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Upstream. Drainage flowing onto the site from upstream areas must be
managed and accommodated. Alterations to flow paths which impound or slow down
water will not be allowed unless it can be shown that the upstream system can
accommodate the change. Proposed rates, volumes, velocities, and duration of
flow may be requested in order to document that any impacts are nonexistent or
insignificant.
   (B)   Downstream.
      (1)   To the extent possible, existing drainage areas and discharge
points from the site should be maintained post-development and concentrated
flows onto neighboring properties should be avoided or mitigated. The
downstream conveyance system (natural or structural) must be able to
accommodate, to the nearest major receiving waterbody, increased volumes caused
by development.
      (2)   If diversions from existing drainage areas and alterations to
discharge points are proposed, the responsible party shall provide additional
documentation (rates, volumes, velocities, duration of flow, and the like) to
demonstrate that the downstream conveyance system can accommodate the change.
The responsible party shall provide evidence of easements or other agreements
concerning water flow if a plan involves increased impervious or directing
concentrated runoff from onto a neighboring property.
      (3)   If diversions from existing drainage areas, alterations to
discharge points, increased duration of flow, or additional runoff volumes are
proposed, the responsible party shall provide additional documentation (rates,
volumes, velocities, duration of flow, and the like) to demonstrate that the
downstream conveyance system can accommodate the change. The responsible party
shall provide evidence of mitigation, easements or other agreements concerning
water flow if a plan involves increased impervious or directing concentrated
runoff from onto a neighboring property.
(Ord. 99-2022, passed 6-28-22)
§ 153.64 CONSERVATION AREA STANDARDS.
   (A)   Upland preservation areas placed under conservation easement must be
placed in outlots or other publicly owned or accessible land.
   (B)   Fencing between conservation areas and private property may be
required in some circumstances.
   (C)   Monumentation is required for wetland and shoreland setbacks, as well
as areas designated as upland preserves and placed under conservation easement.
   (D)   Posts must be placed at each corner, angle point, approximately every
500 feet along a tangent (straight line segment), and at each intersection
between the setback boundary and existing property lines (i.e., at each lot
line). An exception to this specification may be for setback boundaries that
are described as abutting and following a meandering riparian edge where
permanent monumentation would be impracticable.
   (E)   Posts must be a minimum length of 72 inches.
   (F)   An appropriate, approved setback boundary sign must be attached to the
top of each post. Easement boundary signs must be no smaller than six inches by
nine inches in size. At a minimum, easement boundary signs must identify the
area as a conservation area and indicate that mowing, spraying, and other land
disturbing activities are not permitted.
   (G)   Monumentation requirements may be altered for sites with unique
circumstances at county discretion.
(Ord. 99-2022, passed 6-28-22)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.70 AUTHORITY/RESPONSIBILITY.
   The county shall have the overall authority to enforce the provisions of
this chapter. If the LGU has an approved and adopted Local Water Plan and
elects to take on principal responsibility for enforcement of this chapter, an
individual agreement will be negotiated to determine principal review and
enforcement responsibility based on the LGU’s ability to implement this
chapter.
(Ord. 57-2005, passed 1-10-06; Am. Ord. 75-2012, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 83-
2016, passed 9-20-16; Am. Ord. 99-2022, passed 6-28-22)
§ 153.71 METHOD OF ENFORCEMENT.
   The county may take the following actions as appropriate:
   (A)   Issue stop work orders;
   (B)   Issue a notice of violation;
   (C)   Issue an order for correction;
   (D)   Withhold the scheduling of inspections and/or the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy;
   (E)   Revoke any approval issued by the county to the responsible party for
the site in question;
   (F)   Take such action as necessary in a court of competent jurisdiction to
attain compliance;
   (G)   Use financial security as provided under §
153.73;
   (H)   Institute appropriate actions or proceedings, including injunctive
relief to prevent, restrain, correct or abate such violations or threatened
violations. The county may recover costs incurred for corrective action in a
civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction and such costs may be
certified by court order to the County Auditor as a special tax against the
real property.
(Ord. 57-2005, passed 1-10-06; Am. Ord. 75-2012, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 83-
2016, passed 9-20-16; Am. Ord. 99-2022, passed 6-28-22)
§ 153.72 INSPECTIONS.
   After issuance of a permit, the county or SWCD may perform such field
inspections and monitoring of the approved activity as the county or SWCD deems
necessary to determine compliance with the conditions of the permit and this
ordinance. Any portion of the activity not in compliance shall be promptly
corrected. In applying for a permit, the applicant consents to the county or
SWCDs entry upon the land for field inspections and monitoring.
(Ord. 57-2005, passed 1-10-06; Am. Ord. 75-2012, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 83-
2016, passed 9-20-16; Am. Ord. 99-2022, passed 6-28-22)
§ 153.73 FINANCIAL SECURITY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the financial security is to ensure
installation and maintenance of erosion and sediment control measures,
installation of practices intended to meet stormwater requirements, replacement
of topsoil, and establishment of vegetation. The responsible party will provide
a financial security for projects requiring an erosion and sediment control
permit per § 153, stormwater permit per §
153.11(A)(2), or stream crossings permit per §
153.44. Federal, state, county, city, and township governments will not be
required to provide financial security.
   (B)   Form and amount.
      (1)   The responsible party shall provide security as set forth in the
Carver County fee schedule for the performance of the work described and
delineated on the approved construction plans and any related remedial work.
      (2)   The responsible party shall deposit, either with the county, a
responsible escrow agent, or trust company, at the option of the county, an
irrevocable letter of credit, cash escrow, or other assurance. The financial
assurance must be in a form acceptable to the county and from a surety licensed
to do business in the State of Minnesota.
      (3)   The financial assurance shall be in favor of the county and
conditioned upon the applicant's performance of the authorized activity in
compliance with the permit and applicable laws, including this chapter, and the
payment when due of any fees or other charges authorized or required by the
permit and this chapter. The financial assurance shall state that in the event
the conditions of the financial assurance are not met, the county may make a
claim against it. The county shall be authorized to make a claim or draw
against the security after any default by the responsible party under the
permit or these rules.
   (C)   Maintaining the financial security.
      (1)   If at any time during the course of the work the financial security
amount falls below 50% of the required deposit, the responsible party shall
make another deposit in the amount necessary to restore the cash deposit to the
required amount.
      (2)   If the responsible party does not bring the financial security back
up to the required amount within seven days after notification by the county
that the amount has fallen below 50% of the required amount the county may take
such legal action as specified in §
153.74.
   (D)   Action against the financial security.
      (1)   The county shall be authorized to make a claim or draw against the
security after any default by the responsible party under the permit or this
chapter.
      (2)   The county may use funds from this security to finance remedial
work undertaken by the county or a private contractor and to reimburse the
county for all costs incurred in the process of remedial work including, but
not limited to, staff time and attorney's fees under the following
circumstances:
         (a)   The responsible party ceases land altering activities and
abandons the work site prior to completion of the grading plan.
         (b)   The responsible party fails to conform to the grading plan,
erosion and sediment control plan, and/or the approved stormwater management
plan as approved by the county.
         (c)   The erosion and sediment control techniques utilized under the
erosion and sediment control plan and/or the approved stormwater management
plan are not maintained during site construction.
         (d)   The responsible party fails to reimburse the county for
corrective action.
   (E)   Returning the financial security. The security shall be released
after:
      (1)   Construction is complete;
      (2)   The site has been re-vegetated (90% percent vegetated cover across
the site and 100% in areas of concentrated flow);
      (3)   All erosion and sediment measures have been removed;
      (4)   When applicable, the practices identified in the approved
stormwater management plan have been installed and are working as designed;
      (5)   When applicable, record drawings have been received and reviewed by
the county;
      (6)   When applicable, an operation and maintenance plan has been
received and reviewed by the county;
      (7)   When applicable, conditions to final approval have been met;
      (8)   A final inspection has been completed by the county and the county
determines that the project adheres to the standards in this chapter.
   (F)   Partial return of the financial security. The county may return a
portion of the financial security submitted to assure performance if the county
determines that the entire amount is no longer required to ensure compliance
with permit conditions and rules.
(Ord. 57-2005, passed 1-10-06; Am. Ord. 75-2012, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 83-
2016, passed 9-20-16; Am. Ord. 99-2022, passed 6-28-22)
§ 153.74 RELIEF.
   Any request for relief from a standard of this chapter must be decided by
the Carver County Board of Adjustment. The standards and procedures set forth
in §§
152.214 through
152.218 shall apply to any request for relief in this chapter.
   (A)   Carver County Board of Adjustment cannot grant relief from any
Minnesota Permit R100001 (the general permit authorization to discharge storm
water associated with construction activity under the National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System) requirements. Such requests for relief must be
heard by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA).
   (B)   Carver County Board of Adjustment cannot grant relief which is in
conflict with or violates the Water Management Plan.
   (C)   In cases where an LGU has a similar standard, the Carver County Board
of Adjustment cannot grant relief in instances where the LGU has not granted
similar relief.
   (D)   Notice must also be given to the following:
      (1)   Property owners located downstream of the applicant property;
      (2)    Property owners located downstream of the applicant property to
the nearest receiving waterbody; and
      (3)   Property owners located upstream affected by the project.
(Ord. 57-2005, passed 1-10-06; Am. Ord. 75-2012, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 83-
2016, passed 9-20-16; Am. Ord. 99-2022, passed 6-28-22)
APPENDIX A: VOLUME AND WATER QUALITY CALCULATIONS
   (A)   Purpose. This appendix provides assistance to applicants in
calculating volume and water quality credits for best management practices
(BMPs) to meet the requirements outlined in
Chapter 153. For additional information on designing BMPs, please see the
Carver County Water Resource Management Ordinance and BMP Guidelines.
   (B)   Calculation for volume and water quality treatment volume. The
treatment volume is a storm event of 1.0 inch. The treatment is divided into
volume reduction and water quality treatment as described below.
      (1)   Volume reduction. The volume to be controlled on site is 1.0 inch
from the site impervious.
      (2)   Water quality treatment. The water quality treatment volume is
calculated as 1.0 inch from the site impervious.
   (C)   Volume credits. Practices that can be used to meet the 1.0 inch volume
requirement are described below. Methods for calculating the volume retained
are included for each practice.
      (1)   Amended soils. The volume retained is calculated using 0.5 inches
over the amended area.
      (2)   Bioretention basins. The volume retained is calculated as 40% of
the ponded volume. No volume credit will be given for bioretention practices
within three feet of vertical separation from the seasonally high groundwater
or sited immediately adjacent to wet ponds and/or bioretention practices
controlled by the same outlet as a wet pond (e.g. bioretention shelves or
benches).
      (3)   Dry swale. The volume retained is calculated as 40% of the ponded
volume. No volume credit will be given for bioretention practices within three
feet of vertical separation from the seasonally high groundwater or sited
immediately adjacent to wet ponds and/or bioretention practices controlled by
the same outlet as a wet pond (e.g. bioretention shelves or benches).
      (4)   Stormwater reuse (irrigation). To meet the volume requirement, the
volume to be retained on-site must be utilized on-site once per week for a
period of 20 weeks during the growing season. The volume reduction for
stormwater reuse is calculated by the area irrigated times the irrigation rate.
      (5)   Preservation or restoration of upland vegetation.
         (a)   Volume retained. The volume retained is calculated using 0.5
inches over the area preserved.
         (b)   The area to be preserved should consist of existing trees or
predominantly native vegetation. Areas to be restored must be restored to
predominantly native vegetation.
         (c)   The area to be preserved must be placed under easement to ensure
that it continues to provide treatment in perpetuity.
      (6)   Green roof. The area of the green roof is excluded from the total
impervious calculation, thereby reducing the total treatment volume.
      (7)   Pervious pavement. The volume reduction for pervious pavement is
calculated as 50% of the volume below the tile outlet elevation (assumes 50%
pore space below tile). The area of pervious pavement is also excluded from the
total impervious calculation.
      (8)   Infiltration. The volume retained is calculated as 80% of the
ponded volume.
      (9)   Biorentention shelf/bench. No volume credit will be given for
biorentention practices sited immediately adjacent to wet ponds and/or
biorentention practices controlled by the same outlet as a wet pond (e.g.
bioretention shelves or benches).
      (10)   Disconnecting impervious surfaces. Volume reduction for
disconnecting impervious surface is dependent upon the pervious area being
routed and must have amended soils to receive volume reduction credits. Volume
reduction is 0.5 inches over the area of amended soils. Impervious areas must
be discharging to the amended soils as a uniform sheet flow, with a max flow
path of 100 feet.
   (D)   Water quality credits. Practices that can be used to meet the water
quality treatment requirement are described below. Methods for calculating the
amount of water quality treatment provided are included for each practice. In
order to be eligible for the water quality credit described below, BMPs must
meet the design standards in the Carver County BMP guidelines.
      (1)   Removal requirements. The following removal percentages are
required for the site.
         (a)   90% Total Phosphorus (TP) removal for 1.0 inch off site
impervious.
         (b)   90% Total Suspended Sediment (TSS) removal for 1.0 inch off site
impervious.
      (2)   TP and TSS removal percentages. The CCWMO assumes the following
removal percentages for total phosphorus:
         (a)   Stormwater pond. For stormwater ponds designed to meet NURP
design criteria, 60% TP removal can be assumed and 80% TSS removal can be
assumed.
         (b)   Bioretention basin. For bioretention basins designed to meet the
design criteria in the Carver County BMP Guidelines, 75% TP removal can be
assumed and 90% TSS removal can be assumed.
         (c)   Iron-enhanced sand filter. For iron-enhanced sand filter systems
designed to meet design criteria in the Carver County BMP Guidelines, 90% TP
removal can be assumed and 90% TSS removal can be assumed.
         (d)   Hydrodynamic separator. TSS removal is 50% of the watershed
being treated by the device. No credit is given for TP removal.
         (e)   Disconnecting impervious surfaces. 45% TP reduction and 75% TSS
reduction with a maximum area equal to the area of impervious area discharging
to the area. Discharge must be uniformed sheet flow with a max flow path of 100
feet.
         (f)   Volume practices. 
            1.   Stormwater reuse. 50% TP and 50% TSS requirements can be met
through reuse when treating one inch of stormwater.
            2.   Infiltration. 100% TP and TSS removal can be assumed for the
volume naturally infiltrating.
   (E)   Alternative design approaches.
      (1)   Alternative designs. Alternative designs may be approved if, upon
review, the county determines the design will provide treatment equal to or
greater than the practices described in this appendix. Applicants wishing to
utilize an alternative design must submit plans and specifications for the
proposed design along with calculations showing compliance with the stormwater
standards of
Chapter 153 of this code. Calculations should be generated using industry
standard models. In order to be eligible for the volume credit described below,
BMPs must meet the design standards in the Carver County BMP guidelines.
      (2)   Site specific soil determinations. On-site information may be
accepted in lieu of the Hydrologic Soil Group determinations found in the
Carver County Soil Survey. The on-site determination must be completed by a
state-licensed soil scientist. Information submitted must present a detailed
soil profile description including, but not limited to, horizon depths, Munsell
colors, USDA textural classifications, bulk density analysis, and saturated
hydraulic conductivity tests to a minimum depth of eight feet. Geotechnical
soil borings alone are not acceptable. If requested, an on-site meeting can be
held for further determination. If the initial determination is disputed, the
applicant must submit a minimum number of soil profile locations in the
disputed area based on one per soil group and one per five acres or as agreed
upon between the county and the applicant in the disputed area. A final
determination of on-site soils will be made by a consensus of the county,
Carver SWCD and the LGU following review by state soil licensed staff and/or
consultant.
      (3)   Infiltration rates. Design infiltration rates from the most recent
version of the Minnesota Stormwater Manual shall be used to calculate the area
and draw-down time period for infiltration BMPs. Percolation tests can be
conducted and submitted to determine the actual rate of infiltration after the
sub-grading is established.
   (F)   References. Additional information and design guidelines are available
in the following documents:
      (1)   "Carver County Water Resource Management Ordinance and BMP
Guidelines," as amended from time to time.
      (2)   MPCA's "Minnesota Stormwater Manual", as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 75-2012, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord. 83-2016, passed 9-20-16)
APPENDIX B: MAINTENANCE
   (A)   Purpose. This appendix provides assistance to applicants in meeting
the maintenance requirements outlined in
Chapter 153.
   (B)   Maintenance of municipal-owned stormwater practices. Municipalities
may choose to meet the maintenance requirements outlined in
Chapter 153 by incorporating a maintenance schedule and standard inspection
checklist into a local water management plan. The maintenance section of the
plan should include the following:
      (1)   Map or list of municipal-owned stormwater facilities;
      (2)    Inspection Schedule. Following initial vegetation establishment
and documentation that the practice is functioning as designed, sites should be
inspected every five years; and
      (3)   Standard inspection checklist.
   (C)   Sample documents. The following example documents are provided to
assist applications in creating a maintenance plan that meets the requirements
of
Chapter 153.
      (1)   Sample maintenance agreement
      (2)   Example list of stormwater practice inspection activities.
Sample Maintenance Agreement
Responsible Party:            Name
(Name, address, telephone and email)   Address
                  City, State ZIP
                  Phone Number
                  Email Address
Location (County):      Carver
This agreement dated                   between
                                               (Responsible Party), and Carver
County is entered into in order to maintain structural stormwater practices
and/or wetland transition setbacks as outlined within this agreement.
This Agreement covers structural stormwater practices and/or wetland transition
setbacks located on PID(s) #                   . The term of this Agreement
shall be the life of the practices outlined below.
Recitals
   A)   Structural Stormwater Practice(s) covered by this agreement.
   B)   Legal description of wetland transition setbacks covered by this
agreement.
   C)   Inspection frequency and responsible parties.
   D)   Items of interest that will be inspected and criteria for determination
of pass or fail.
   E)   Corrective actions that will take place if items of interest fail
inspection.
I.   RESPONSIBLE PARTY RESPONSIBILITIES
   A)   Structural Stormwater Practice Responsibilities.
      i.   The Responsible Party is responsible for maintaining the practice(s)
for the lifetime of the practice(s) to ensure that the conservation objective
is/are met.
      ii.   The Responsible Party agrees to allow the Carver County Staff
access to the project area for evaluation and monitoring of the practice(s).
      iii.   The Responsible Party is responsible for maintaining and restoring
the practice(s). The Responsible Party shall secure all necessary permits for
the practice(s).
      iv.   The Responsible Party will submit to Carver County Staff proof of
failed inspections within 30 days and proof of repair within 60 days.
   B)   Wetland Transition Setback Responsibilities.
      i.   The Responsible Party agrees to establish native, noninvasive
vegetation within the transition setback. Vegetation shall be considered
established when approximately 80% or greater aerial coverage of native,
noninvasive species is achieved.
      ii.   The Responsible Party agrees to take reasonable steps to control
invasion by nonnative or invasive species.
II.   CARVER COUNTY RESPONSIBILITIES
   A)   Carver County assumes no liability for injury or damage, other than
that caused by its own negligence, in the project area. Carver County assumes
no jurisdiction over the project area for purposes of controlling trespass,
noxious weeds, granting rights-of-way, or other incidents of ownership.
   B)   Carver County Staff or Carver County Soil and Water Staff may monitor
the practice(s) periodically to evaluate short- and long-term performance. Data
collected as a result of this monitoring effort will be made available to both
the Landowner and to the general public. Any items of concern that are failing
during these visits will be reported to Landowner within seven days.
III.   MISCELLANEOUS:
   A)   This Agreement will be canceled upon transfer of the property to
another owner during this period. This Agreement may be amended by mutual
consent of Carver County and the Responsible Party. Carver County shall have no
obligation to restore the land to its original condition upon expiration or
termination of this Agreement.
   B)   Nothing contained in this agreement is intended or shall be construed
in any manner as creating or establishing a partnership, joint venture, or
agency relationship between parties.
   C)   Except if arising from or out of Carver County Staffs fault or
negligence, the Landowner agrees to indemnify and defend Carver County Staff,
its successors, and assigns against and will hold harmless Carver County Staff,
its successors, and assigns from any claims, expenses, or damages, including
attorney's fees, arising from the Landowner performance of this agreement.
   D)   This agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the
Responsible Party and Carver County Staff, and their respective successors and
assigns: provided, however, that neither party may assign this agreement
without the prior written consent of the other. Any modification, alteration,
amendments, deletions, or waivers of the provisions of this agreement will be
valid only when mutually agreed upon in writing by both parties.
   E)   This agreement will be effective as of the date of all signatures
required below have been provided. The date of the last signature will be the
date of this agreement and will be inserted in the first paragraph on page 1.
                                                                                         
Responsible Party             Date
 
EXAMPLE LIST OF STORMWATER PRACTICE INSPECTION ACTIVITIES
 
VISUAL       RECOMMENDED
INSPECTION   INSPECTION   PASS         FAIL         CORRECTIVE ACTIONS
ACTIVITY     FREQUENCY
1. Inspect
for trash
and debris
at inlet,    Twice per
outlet,      year and     No trash or  Trash or     Remove trash and debris from basin,
outlet       following    debris       debris       inlet, outlet, outlet structure, and
structure,   large storm  present      present      contributing drainage areas
basin, and   events
contributing
drainage
areas
                                       Slopes
2. Inspect   Twice per    Slopes       around
for erosion  year and     around       basin,
in basin,    following    basin, inlet inlet, and   Repair erosion
inlet and    large storm  and outlet   outlet show
outlet       events       are stable   significant
                                       signs of
                                       erosion
3a. Measure
depth of
sediment in
basin, inlet
and outlet   Twice per    Rate of      Rate of
3b.          year and     accumulation accumulation
Calculate    following    less than    greater than Remove sediment from inlet/outlet/basin
rate of      large storm  expected     expected
accumulation events
and compare
to expected
design life
of basin
                          Vegetation   More than
             Twice per    well         50% of
             year and     established  vegetation
4. Inspect   following    Vegetation   dead/dying   Reseed/replant
vegetation   large storm  dominated by Vegetation   Treat/remove invasive species
             events       non-         dominated by
                          invasive     invasive
                          species      species
5. Inspect
inlet and
outlet
structural                             Structural
components                             components
(flared- end As part of   Structural   failing or
sections),   all          components   starting to  Replace failing structural components
including    inspection   in good      fail (weir   with equal installed per manufacturer’s
orifice and  visits       working      wall seal    specifications
weir wall                 order        failing, and
inside                                 the like)
outlet
structure,
and clean-
outs
             48 and/or 72
             hours
6. Inspect   following    Filtration/  Filtration/
filtration   storm events infiltration infiltration
and          -Twice       feature      feature does Dewater
infiltration during first draws down   not draw     Clean out tile
features for growing      within 48    down within  Install sand or rock chimney
standing     season after hours        48 hours     Replace filter media
water during construction following    following
growing      -Once per    storm event  storm event
season       year for
             subsequent
             years
 
(Ord. 75-2012, passed 6-26-12)
CHAPTER 154: SIGN REGULATIONS
Section
Purpose and Definitions
   
154.01   Findings, purpose and effect
   
154.02   Application and jurisdiction
   
154.03   Severability
   
154.04   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.10   Permit required
   
154.11   Exemptions
   
154.12   Fees
   
154.13   Repairs
   
154.14   Removal
   
154.15   Violations
General Provisions
   
154.20   Size
   
154.21   Regulations
   
154.22   Electrical signs
   
154.23   Unauthorized signs
   
154.24   Setbacks
   
154.25   Area
   
154.26   Canopies, marquees and fixed awnings
   
154.27   Height
   
154.28   Retroactive effect
Nonconforming Uses
   
154.35   Nonconforming signs; compliance
Noncommercial Speech
   
154.40   Noncommercial speech
   
154.41   Substitution clause
Appeals
   
154.45   Appeals
PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS
§ 154.01 FINDINGS, PURPOSE AND EFFECT.
   (A)   Findings. The County Board hereby finds as follows:
      (1)   Exterior signs have a substantial impact on the character and
quality of the environment.
      (2)   Signs provide an important medium through which individuals may
convey a variety of messages.
      (3)   Signs can create traffic hazards, aesthetic concerns and detriments
to property values, thereby threatening the public health, safety and welfare.
      (4)   The county's zoning regulations have, since as early as 1970,
included the regulation of signs in an effort to provide adequate means of
expression and to promote economic viability, while protecting the county and
its citizens from a proliferation of signs of a type, size, location and
character that would adversely impact upon the aesthetics of the county and
threaten the health, safety and welfare of the county. The regulation of the
physical characteristics of signs has had a positive impact on traffic safety
and the appearance of the county.
   (B)   Purpose and intent. It is not the purpose or intent of this chapter to
regulate the message displayed on any sign; nor is it the purpose or intent of
this chapter to regulate any building design or any display not defined as a
sign, or any sign which cannot be viewed from outside a building. The purpose
and intent of this section is to:
      (1)   Regulate the number, location, size, type, illumination and other
physical characteristics of signs within the county in order to promote the
public health, safety and welfare.
      (2)   Maintain, enhance and improve the aesthetic environment by
preventing visual clutter that is harmful to the appearance of the county.
      (3)   Improve the visual appearance of the county while providing for
effective means of communication, consistent with constitutional guarantees and
the county's goals of public safety and aesthetics.
      (4)   Provide for fair and consistent enforcement of the sign regulations
set forth herein under the zoning authority of the county.
   (C)   Effect. A sign may be erected, mounted, displayed or maintained in the
county if it is in conformance with the provisions of these regulations. The
effect of this chapter, as more specifically set forth herein, is to:
      (1)   Allow certain small, unobtrusive signs incidental to the principal
use of a site when in compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Prohibit signs whose location, size, type, illumination or other
physical characteristics negatively affect the environment and where the
communication can be accomplished by means having a lesser impact on the
environment and the public health, safety and welfare.
      (3)   Provide for the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07)
§ 154.02 APPLICATION AND JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all land within the county
which is not within the boundaries of an incorporated city or within any
orderly annexation area where the city and township and county have a separate
agreement concerning sign regulations within the orderly annexation area.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07)
§ 154.03 SEVERABILITY
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this chapter is
for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this chapter. The County Board hereby declares
that it would have adopted this chapter in each section, subsection, sentence,
or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases be declared invalid.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07)
§ 154.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED SIGN. Any sign and/or its supporting sign structure which remains
without a message or whose display surface remains blank for a period of one
year or more, or any sign which pertains to a time, event or purpose which no
longer applies, shall be deemed to have been abandoned. Signs applicable to a
business temporarily suspended because of a change in ownership or management
of such business shall not be deemed abandoned unless the property remains
vacant for a period of one year or more. Any sign remaining after demolition of
a principal structure shall be deemed to be abandoned. Signs which are present
because of being legally established nonconforming signs or signs which have
required a conditional use permit or a variance shall also be subject to the
definition of ABANDONED SIGN.
   AWNING. A roof-like cover, often of fabric, plastic, metal or glass designed
and intended for protection from the weather or as a decorative embellishment,
and which projects from a wall or roof of a structure primarily over a window,
walk, or the like. Any part of an awning which also projects over a door shall
be counted as an awning.
   AWNING SIGN. A building sign or graphic printed on or in some fashion
attached directly to the awning material.
   BALLOON SIGN. A sign consisting of a bag made of lightweight material
supported by helium, hot, or pressurized air which is greater than 24 inches in
diameter.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
   BUILDING SIGN. Any sign attached or supported by any structure used or
intended for supporting or sheltering any use or occupancy.
   CABINET SIGN. Any wall sign that is not of channel or individually mounted
letter construction.
   CANOPY. A roof-like cover, often of fabric, plastic, metal, or glass on a
support, which provides shelter over a doorway.
   CANOPY SIGN. Any sign that is part of or attached to a canopy, made of
fabric, plastic, or structural protective cover over a door or entrance. A
CANOPY SIGN is not a marquee and is different from service area canopy signs.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN, ELECTRONIC. A sign or portion thereof that displays
electronic, non-pictorial text information in which each alphanumeric
character, graphic, or symbol is defined by a small number of matrix elements
using different combinations of light emitting diodes (LED's), fiber optics,
light bulbs or other illumination devices within the display area. CHANGEABLE
COPY SIGNS, ELECTRONIC include computer programmable, microprocessor controlled
electronic displays. CHANGEABLE COPY SIGNS, ELECTRONIC do not include time and
temperature signs. CHANGEABLE COPY SIGNS, ELECTRONIC include projected images
or messages with these characteristics onto buildings or other objects.
   COMMERCIAL SPEECH. Speech advertising a business, profession, commodity,
service or entertainment.
   ELECTRONIC CHANGEABLE COPY SIGNS. See CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN, ELECTRONIC.
   ELEVATION. The view of the side, front, or rear of a given structure(s).
   ELEVATION AREA. The area of all walls that face any lot line.
   ERECT. Activity of constructing, building, raising, assembling, placing,
affixing, attaching, creating, painting, drawing or any other way of bringing
into being or establishing.
   FLAG. Any fabric or similar lightweight material attached at one end of the
material, usually to a staff or pole, so as to allow movement of the material
by atmospheric changes and which contains distinctive colors, patterns,
symbols, emblems, insignia, or other symbolic devices.
   FLASHING SIGN. A directly or indirectly illuminated sign which exhibits
changing light or color effect by any means, so as to provide intermittent
illumination which includes the illusion of intermittent flashing light by
means of animation. Also any mode of lighting which resembles zooming,
twinkling, or sparkling.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. Any sign which has supporting framework that is placed
on, or anchored in, the ground and which is independent from any building or
other structure.
   FRONTAGE. The line of contact of a property with the public right-of-way.
   GRADE. Grade shall be construed to be the final ground elevation after
construction. Earth mounding criteria for landscaping and screening is not part
of the final grade for sign height computation.
   GROUND SIGN. Any freestanding sign with its sign face mounted on the ground
or mounted on a base at least as wide as the sign and which has a total height
not exceeding eight feet.
   HEIGHT OF SIGN. The height of the sign shall be computed as the vertical
distance measured from the base of the sign at grade to the top of the highest
attached component of the sign.
   HOTEL, MOTEL, MOTOR HOTEL. Any building or combination of buildings
contained six or more rooms used for sleeping purposes by guest on a transient
basis.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign which contains an element designed to emanate
artificial light internally or externally.
   INTERIOR SIGN. A sign which is located within the interior of any building,
or within an enclosed lobby or court of any building, and a sign for and
located within the inner or outer body, court or entrance of any theater.
   ISSUING AUTHORITY. Carver County.
   LEGALLY ESTABLISHED NONCONFORMING SIGN. Any sign and its support structure
lawfully erected prior to the effective date of this chapter which fails to
conform to the requirements of this chapter. A sign which was erected in
accordance with a variance granted prior to the adoption of this chapter and
which does not comply with the chapter shall be deemed to be a legal
nonconforming sign. A sign which was unlawfully erected shall be deemed to be
an illegal sign.
   MARQUEE.  Any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a theater
building or extending along and projecting beyond the wall of that building,
generally designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
   MARQUEE SIGN. Any building sign painted, mounted, constructed or attached in
any manner, on a marquee.
   MONUMENT SIGN.  Any freestanding sign with its sign face mounted on the
ground or mounted on a base at least as wide as the sign and which has a height
exceeding eight feet.
   MULTIPLE TENANT SITE. Any site which has more than one tenant, and each
tenant has a separate ground level exterior public entrance.
   NONCOMMERCIAL SPEECH. Dissemination of messages not classified as commercial
speech which include, but are not limited to, messages concerning political,
religious, social, ideological, public service and informational topics.
   OFF-PREMISE SIGN.  A commercial speech sign which directs the attention of
the public to a business, activity conducted, or product sold or offered at a
location not on the same premises where such business sign is located. For
purposes of this chapter, easements and other appurtenances shall be considered
to be outside such platted parcel of land and any sign located or proposed to
be located in an easement or other appurtenance shall be considered an off-
premise sign.
   ON-PREMISE MESSAGES. Identify or advertise an establishment, person,
activity, goods, products or services located on the premises where the sign is
installed.
   PARAPET (WALL). That portion of building wall that rises above the roof
level.
   POLE SIGN. See PYLON SIGN.
   PORTE COCHERE.  A roofed structure or roof-like cover, extending from the
entrance of a building and which provides shelter over a doorway.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. The building in which the principal primary use of the
lot is conducted. Lots with multiple principal uses may have multiple principal
buildings, but storage buildings, garages, and other clearly accessory uses
shall not be considered principal buildings.
   PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign which is affixed to a building or wall in such a
manner that its leading edge extends more than two feet beyond the surface or
such building or wall face.
   PROPERTY OWNER. Legal owner of property as officially recorded by Carver
County.
   PUBLIC NOTICES. Official notices posted by public officers, employees or
their agents in the performance of their duties, or as directed by such
officers, employees or agents.
   PUBLIC STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY. The planned right-of-way for a public street.
   PYLON SIGN. Any freestanding sign which has its supportive structure(s)
anchored in the ground and which has a sign face elevated above ground level by
pole(s) or beam(s) and with the area below the sign face open.
   ROOF.  The exterior surface and it supporting structure on the top of a
building or structure. The structural make-up of which conforms to the roof
structures, roof construction and roof covering sections of the Uniform
Building Code.
   ROOF LINE. The upper-most edge of the roof or in the case of an extended
facade or parapet, the upper-most height of said facade.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected and constructed wholly on and above the roof of
a building, supported by the roof structure, and extending vertically above the
highest portion of the roof.
   ROOF SIGN, INTEGRAL. Any building sign erected or constructed as an integral
or essentially integral part of a normal roof structure of any design, so that
no part of the sign extends vertically above the highest portion of the roof
and so that no part of the sign is separated from the rest of the roof by a
space of more than six inches.
   ROTATING SIGN. A sign or portion of a sign which turns about on an axis.
   SETBACK, FRONT. The minimum horizontal distance permitted between the public
right-of-way and a structure on the premises. In instances in which a property
fronts on more than one street, front setbacks are required on all street
frontages.
   SETBACK, REAR. The minimum horizontal distance permitted between the
property line opposite the principal street frontage and a structure on the
premises.
   SETBACK, SIDE. The minimum horizontal distance permitted between the side
lot line and a structure on the premises.
   SHIMMERING SIGNS.  A sign which reflects an oscillating sometimes distorted
visual image.
   SIGN. Any letter, word or symbol, poster, picture, statuary, reading matter
or representation in the nature of advertisement, announcement, message or
visual communication, whether painted, posted, printed, affixed or constructed,
including all associated brackets, braces, supports, wires and structures,
which is displayed for informational or communicative purposes.
   SIGN FACE. The surface of the sign upon, against, or through which the
message of the sign is exhibited.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure including the supports, uprights, bracing and
framework which supports or is capable of supporting any sign.
   SITE. A plot or parcel of land, or combination of contiguous lots or parcels
of land, which are intended, designated, and/or approved to function as an
integrated unit.
   STRINGER. A line of string, rope, cording, or an equivalent to which is
attached a number of pennants.
   SUSPENDED SIGN. Any building sign that is suspended from the underside of a
horizontal plane surface and is connected to this surface.
   TOTAL SITE SIGNAGE.  The maximum permitted combined area of all freestanding
and wall identification signs allowed on a specific property.
   VISIBLE. Capable of being seen by a person of normal visual acuity (whether
legible or not) without visual aid.
   WALL. Any structure which defines the exterior boundaries or courts of a
building or structure and which has a slope of 60º or greater with the
horizontal plane.
   WALL SIGN. Any building sign attached parallel to, but within two feet of a
wall, painted on the wall surface of, or erected and confined within the limits
of an outside wall of any building or structure, which is supported by such
wall or building, and which displays only one sign surface.
   WINDOW SIGN. Any building sign, pictures, symbol, or combination thereof,
designed to communicate information about an activity, business, commodity,
event, sale, or service, that is placed inside a window or upon the window
panes or glass and is visible from the exterior of the window.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.10 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No sign shall be erected, altered, reconstructed, maintained or moved
in the county without first securing a permit from the county or as part of a
conditional use permit issued pursuant to
Chapter 152 of this code. The content of the sign shall not be reviewed or
considered in determining whether to approve or deny a sign permit. Application
for a permit shall be in writing addressed to the issuing authority and shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   Names and addresses of the owners of the display structure and
property;
      (2)   The location, including the address at which any signs are to be
erected and the road/street on which they are to front;
      (3)   The cost of the sign;
      (4)   Type of sign (i.e. wall sign, monument sign, and the like);
      (5)   Certification by applicant indicating the application complies with
all requirements of this chapter; and
      (6)   If the proposed sign is along state trunk highway or interstate
highway, the application shall be accompanied by proof that the applicant has
obtained a permit from the state for the sign.
   (B)   The issuing authority shall approve or deny the sign permit within a
time frame that complies with M.S. § 15.99.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11)
§ 154.11 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following signs shall not require a permit. These exemptions, however,
shall not be construed as relieving the owner of the sign from the
responsibility of its erection and maintenance, and its compliance with the
provisions of this chapter or any other law or ordinance regulating the same.
   (A)   The changing of the display surface on a painted or printed sign only.
This exemption, however, shall apply only to poster replacement and/or on-site
changes involving sign painting elsewhere than directly on a building.
   (B)   Signs six square feet or less in size.
   (C)   Street signs, official traffic control signs or devices, railroad
signs or signals, emergency vehicle signals, or any other signs authorized by
the responsible road authority or public entity.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11)
§ 154.12 FEES.
   Sign permit fees are set forth in the Carver County Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07)
§ 154.13 REPAIRS.
   Any sign located in the county which may now be or hereafter become out of
order, rotten or unsafe, and every sign which shall hereafter be erected,
altered, resurfaced, reconstructed or moved contrary to the provisions of this
chapter, shall be removed or otherwise properly secured in accordance with the
terms of this chapter by the owners thereof or by the owners of the grounds on
which said sign shall stand, upon receipt of proper notice so to do, given by
the issuing authority. No rotten or other unsafe sign shall be repaired or
rebuilt except in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and upon a
permit issued by the issuing authority.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07)
§ 154.14 REMOVAL.
   In the event of the failure of the owner or person, company or corporation
having control of any sign, or the owner of the ground on which the sign is
located, to remove or repair said sign within 60 days after the use is
terminated, a notice shall be given to the person or entity identified in the
sign application and the sign may be removed by the county at the expense of
the owner or manager of the sign, or the owner of the ground upon which the
sign stands.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07)
§ 154.15 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Violations. Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of
the provisions of this chapter or who shall fail to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter or who shall make any false statement in any
document required to be submitted under the provisions of this chapter, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Stop work orders. Whenever any work is being done contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, the county may order the work stopped by written
notice personally served upon the property owner or applicant named in the
permit. All activities shall cease and desist until subsequent authorization to
proceed is received from the county or a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   Injunctive relief and other remedies. In the event of a violation or a
threat of a violation of this chapter, the county may institute appropriate
actions or proceedings, including injunctive relief, to prevent, restrain,
correct or abate such violations or threat of violations. The county may
recover costs incurred for corrective action in a civil action in any court of
competent jurisdiction, and such costs may be certified by court order to the
County Auditor as a special tax against the real property. These and other
remedies, as determined appropriate by the county, may be imposed upon the
applicant, permittee, installer, property owner, or other responsible person in
addition to or separate from other enforcement actions.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.20 SIZE.
   (A)   No sign shall exceed 32 square feet of surface area. The size of a
two-sided sign shall be calculated based on the surface area of only one of the
sides, provided the sign surfaces are completely flush (i.e. back to back).
   (B)   No parcel shall have signage exceeding a total aggregate of 36 square
feet of surface area for all signs.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11)
§ 154.21 REGULATIONS.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no signs shall be erected or maintained at
any angle to a building or structure which sign extends or projects over the
street or highway. No sign which is erected or maintained flat against any
building or structure shall extend or project over the sidewalk, street or
highway.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11)
§ 154.22 ELECTRICAL SIGNS.
   (A)   Electrical signs may be permitted, but devices giving off
intermittent, flashing or rotating beam of light shall be prohibited. Flood
lighting shall be focused upon the sign. No lighting for signs shall directly
reflect light beams onto any public street or residential structure. Signs may
not be illuminated beyond any lot line.
   (B)   Electrical signs must be installed in accordance with the current
electrical code and a separate permit from the building official must be
obtained prior to placement.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07)
§ 154.23 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS.
   The following signs are unauthorized signs:
   (A)   Any sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be or is an
imitation of or resembles any official traffic-control device or railroad sign
or signal, or emergency vehicle signal, or which attempts to direct the
movement of traffic or which hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official traffic-control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
   (B)   All off-premise signs.
   (C)   Signs painted, attached or in any other manner affixed to trees,
rocks, or similar natural surfaces, or attached to public utility poles,
bridges, towers, or similar public structures.
   (D)   Changeable copy signs.
   (E)   Private signs, other than public utility warning signs, are prohibited
within public rights-of-way and easements, or on any other public property
unless the sign is specifically authorized by the responsible public authority.
   (F)   Any sign(s) placed near the intersection of public roads, or public
roads and railroads, in such a manner as to cause any obstruction of vision to
a motorist and/or pedestrian as determined by the appropriate road authority.
   (G)   Any sign containing obscene pictures or wording.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11)
§ 154.24 SETBACKS.
   Signs shall be at least three feet from front and side yard property lines
or actual or typical planned right-of-way, whichever is greater.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11)
§ 154.25 AREA.
   The area within the frame shall be used to calculate the square footage
except that the width of a frame exceeding 12 inches shall constitute sign
face, and if such letters or graphics be mounted directly on a wall or fascia
or in such way as to be without a frame the dimensions for calculating the
square footage shall be the area extending six inches beyond the periphery
formed around such letters or graphics in a plane figure bounded by straight
lines connecting the outermost points thereof. Except for the allowance for a
two-sided, flush sign, each surface utilized to display a message or to attract
attention shall be measured as a separate sign and shall be calculated in the
overall square footage. Symbols, flags, pictures, wording, figures or other
forms of graphics painted on or attached to windows, walls, awnings, free-
standing structures, suspended by balloons, or kites or on persons, animals, or
vehicles are considered a sign and are included in calculating the overall
square footage.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07; Am. Ord. 70-2010, passed 1-25-11)
§ 154.26 CANOPIES, MARQUEES AND FIXED AWNINGS.
   Canopies, marquees and fixed awnings are an integral part of the structure
to which they are attached. They are allowed if they meet following
requirements and the applicable square footage requirements.
   (A)   An awning, canopy or marquee may not project into the public right-of-
way nearer than 30 inches to the street curb or curb line;
   (B)   Awnings, canopies or marquees may have no part of the structure other
than supports nearer the ground surface than seven feet;
   (C)   The architectural style of the awning, canopy or marquee may be
consistent with the building being served;
   (D)   Awnings, canopy or marquees projecting into the required yards may not
be enclosed except with a transparent material permitting through vision; and
   (E)   Awnings, canopies or marquees built over the public right-of-way must
be included in a liability insurance policy holding the county free of all
responsibility.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07)
§ 154.27 HEIGHT.
   The top of a sign, including its superstructure, if any, shall be no higher
than the roof of the building to which such sign may be attached or 35 feet
above ground level, whichever height is less; except that the height of any
changeable sign which is attached to or an integral part of a functional
structure, such as a water tower, smoke stack, radio or TV transmitting tower,
beacon or similar structure shall be no higher than such structure. Signs,
including any superstructure standing or erected free of any building or other
structure, shall not exceed an overall height of 35 feet from ground level and
shall be located on land in an area which is landscaped or if such land is part
of an approved parking area, it shall be surfaced or paved as required in the
zoning code.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07)
§ 154.28 RETROACTIVE EFFECT.
   This chapter shall apply to all sign applications applied for and/or pending
prior to its enactment.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07)
NONCONFORMING USES
§ 154.35 NONCONFORMING SIGNS; COMPLIANCE.
   It is recognized that signs exist within the county which were lawful before
this chapter was enacted, which would be prohibited, regulated or restricted
under the terms of this chapter or future amendments. It is the intent of this
chapter that nonconforming signs shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or
extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other signs or uses otherwise
prohibited by this chapter. It is further the intent of this chapter to permit
legal nonconforming signs existing on the effective date of this chapter, or
amendments thereto, to continue as legal nonconforming signs provided such
signs are safe, are maintained so as not to be unsightly, and have not been
abandoned or removed subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   No sign shall be enlarged or altered in a way which increases its
nonconformity.
   (B)   Should such sign or sign structure be destroyed by any means to an
extent greater than 50% of its replacement cost and no building permit has been
applied for within 180 days of when the property was damaged, it shall not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Should such sign or sign structure be moved for any reason for any
distance whatsoever, it shall thereafter conform to the requirements of this
chapter.
   (D)   No existing sign devoted to a use not permitted by the zoning code in
the zoning district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended or moved
except in changing the sign to a sign permitted in the zoning district in which
is it located.
   (E)   When a structure loses its nonconforming status all signs devoted to
the structure shall be removed and all signs painted directly on the structure
shall be repainted in a neutral color or a color which will harmonize with the
structure.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07)
NONCOMMERCIAL SPEECH
§ 154.40 NONCOMMERCIAL SPEECH.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, all signs of any size
containing noncommercial speech may be posted from August 1 in any general
election year until ten days following the general election and 13 weeks prior
to any special election until ten days following the special election.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07)
§ 154.41 SUBSTITUTION CLAUSE.
   The owner of any sign which is otherwise allowed by this chapter may
substitute noncommercial copy in lieu of any other commercial or noncommercial
copy. This substitution of copy may be made without any additional approval or
permitting. The purpose of this provision is to prevent any inadvertent
favoring of commercial speech over noncommercial speech, or favoring of any
particular noncommercial message over any other noncommercial message. This
provision prevails over any more specific provision to the contrary.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07)
APPEALS
§ 154.45 APPEALS.
   (A)   Filing. A person wishing to appeal any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the county pursuant to this chapter shall, within 30 days
of the action that is being appealed, file an appeal with the Department of
Land and Water Services. The appeal shall include the order, requirement,
decision or determination which is being appealed, the requested remedy, and
shall state the reason for the appeal. Land and Water Services shall prepare a
report and refer the appeal to the Board of Adjustment for a decision. The
appeal shall be heard by the Board of Adjustment at a public hearing within 60
days from the date of filing the appeal. The Board of Adjustment shall give due
notice thereof to the appellant, the public and the officer from whom the
appeal is taken.
   (B)   Stay of action. An appeal stays all proceedings and furtherance of the
action appealed from unless the Board of Adjustment certifies that by reason of
the facts stated in the appeal the stay would case imminent peril to life or
property.
   (C)   Decision. The Board of Adjustment may reverse or affirm wholly or
partly or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination and to
that end shall have all of the powers of the officer from whom the appeal was
taken and may direct issuance of the permit. The Board's decision shall be by
the adoption of an order. The order shall include findings of fact supporting
the Board's decision.
(Ord. 58-2007, passed 3-27-07)
CHAPTER 155: ILLICIT STORMWATER DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION
Section
   
155.01   Purpose, intent, and authority
   
155.02   Responsibility of administration
   
155.03   Definitions
   
155.04   Applicability
   
155.05   Most restrictive provision controls
   
155.06   Illicit discharge prohibitions
   
155.07   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
155.08   Illicit connections prohibitions
   
155.09   MS4 access
   
155.10   Compliance monitoring of discharges
   
155.11   Best management practices
   
155.12   Watercourse protection
   
155.13   Notification of releases
   
155.14   Enforcement - notice of violations
   
155.15   Appeal of notice of violation
   
155.16   Enforcement measures after appeal
   
155.17   Cost of abatement of violation
   
155.18   Injunctive relief and public nuisance
   
155.19   Criminal prosecution
§ 155.01 PURPOSE, INTENT, AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health,
safety, and general welfare of the citizens of Carver County (county) through
the regulation of non-stormwater discharges, and connections to the storm
drainage system to the maximum extent practicable as required by federal and
state law. This chapter establishes methods for controlling the introduction of
pollutants into the municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) of the county
in order to comply with requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit process.
   (B)   Intent. The chapter is intended to:
      (1)   Regulate the contribution of pollutants by stormwater discharges by
any user to the county's MS4;
      (2)   Prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the county's MS4;
and
      (3)   Establish the legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance and monitoring, and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Authority. This chapter is adopted pursuant to the federal Water
Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1251 et
seq.), 40 C.F.R. Part 122, M.S. Chapters 115, 116, 145A, 375, and successor
statutes, and Minn. Rules Chapter 7090, and successor rules.
(Ord. 92-2019, passed 4-16-19)
§ 155.02 RESPONSIBILITY OF ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Responsibility of administration. The Divisions shall administer,
implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter. At appropriate times, the
county shall review, revise and update this chapter as necessary. The county
shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter authorizes the county to engage in activities, which
include but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Mapping the county's MS4 and supporting structures;
      (2)   Inspecting the county's outfall structures for non-stormwater
discharges;
      (3)   Screening, sampling, and identifying any discovered non-stormwater
discharges when feasible;
      (4)   Identifying areas or activities that are not covered under a NPDES
permit and that have a high potential for illicit discharges;
      (5)   Determining the need for increased monitoring of areas with
repeated occurrences of illicit discharges, or areas having a high risk for
illicit discharges; and
      (6)   Inspecting facilities suspected of producing illicit discharges,
providing supervision of remediation and prevention activities, and reviewing
any facility discharge sampling directed under the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   False information.  Omission of any information or submission of false
information required by a provision of this chapter is unlawful, and maybe
punished as provided by law.
(Ord. 92-2019, passed 4-16-19)
§ 155.03 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined in this chapter, the words and phrases used in
this chapter shall have the same definition as provided in 33 U.S.C. § 1251 et
seq., M.S. Chapters 115, 116, 145A, and Minn. Rules Chapter 7090. Any word or
phrases not defined therein or in this chapter shall be construed according to
their common usage. For purposes of this chapter, the words "must" and "shall"
are to be constructed as mandatory and not permissive.
   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Employees or designees of the Manager of the
county's Environmental Services Department of the Public Service Division or of
the Director of the county's Public Works Division, who are designated to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS).  Practices to prevent or reduce pollution
of waters of the state, including schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPS also
includes treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge, or water disposal or drainage from raw
materials storage, as defined in Minn. Rule pt. 7001.102, subp. 5, and as
amended from time to time.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251
et seq.), and as amended from time to time.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES construction permits.
NPDES stormwater permits must be obtained for any construction activity that
disturbs one acre or more of soil, less than one acre of soil if that activity
is part of a larger common plan of development or sale that is greater than one
acre, or as otherwise required by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency
(MPCA). A CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY includes a disturbance to the land that results
in a change in the topography, existing soil cover (both vegetative and non-
vegetative), or the existing soil topography, that may result in accelerated
stormwater runoff, leading to soil erosion and movement of sediment into
surface waters or drainage systems. Examples of construction activity include,
but are not limited to clearing and grubbing, grading, filling, excavating, and
demolition.
   COUNTY. Carver County, Minnesota.
   COUNTY BOARD. The Carver County Board of Commissioners.
   DIVISION or DIVISIONS. The Carver County Public Services Division and/or the
Public Works Division (or their successor), their staff and designated agents.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS.  An illicit connection is defined as any of the
following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drainage system, including
but not limited to any conveyances which allow any non-stormwater discharge
including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain
system and any connection to the storm drainage system from indoor drains and
sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously
allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans,
maps, or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any disposal or discharge of pollutants or non-stormwater
materials into the county's MS4, via surface flow, direct dumping into the
storm sewer or water body, or through illegal connection to the county's MS4,
except disposal or discharges permitted pursuant to a NPDES permit (other than
the NPDES permit for discharges from the municipal separate storm sewer), and
discharges resulting from firefighting activities or other exempted activities
listed in §155.006 of this chapter.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY.  Activities subject to NPDES Industrial Permits as
defined in 40 CFR, §122.26(b)(14).
   MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE. A standard for water quality that applies to all
MS4 operators regulated under the NPDES program.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). The conveyance or system of
conveyances (roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch basins,
curbs, gutters, ditches, man-made channels or storm drains etc.) owned or
operated by a public entity such as a city, township, county, highway
department, etc., designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater, and
not used for collecting or conveying sewage or wastewater that discharges to
water of the state.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES). The program for
issuing, modifying, revoking, reissuing, terminating, monitoring, and enforcing
permits under the Clean Water Act (Sections 301, 318, 402, and 405) and United
States Code of Federal Regulations Title 33, Sections 1317, 1328, 1342, and
1345.
   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drainage system that is
not composed entirely of stormwater.
   PERSON or OWNER. Any individual, municipality or other governmental or
political subdivision or other public agency, any public or private
corporation, any partnership, firm, association, organization, any receiver,
assignee, agent or other legal representative of any of the foregoing, or any
other legal entity.
   POLLUTANT.
      (1)   Any substance which, when discharged, has potential to or does any
of the following:
         (a)   Interferes with state designated water uses;
         (b)   Obstructs or cause damage to waters of the state;
         (c)   Changes water color, odor, or usability as a drinking source
through causes not attributable to natural stream processes affecting surface
water or subsurface processes affecting groundwater;
         (d)   Add an unnatural surface film on the water;
         (e)   Adversely changes other chemical, biological, thermal or
physical condition, in any surface water or stream channel;
         (f)   Degrades the quality of the ground water; or
         (g)   Harms human life, aquatic life, or terrestrial plant and
wildlife.
      (2)   Pollutant includes, but is not limited to: dredged soil, solid
wastes, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, heat, wrecked or
discarded equipment or objects, rock, sand, cellar dirt, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, and industrial, municipal, and
agricultural waste. Chemical wastes include but are not limited to paints,
varnishes, solvents, oil and other automotive fluids. Biological materials
include but are not limited to bacteria, fecal coliform, pathogens, and animal
wastes. Agricultural wastes include but are not limited to pesticides,
herbicides, and fertilizers. Industrial wastes include but are not limited to
dissolved and particulate metals, wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure, and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
   POLLUTE.  The discharge of pollutants into waters of the state.
   POLLUTION.  The direct or indirect distribution of pollutions into waters of
the state.
   PRECIPITATION. A deposit on the earth of hail, mist, rain, sleet, or snow;
also the quantity of water deposited.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM.  Publicly-owned facilities by which stormwater is
collected and/or conveyed, including but not limited to any roads with drainage
systems, streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping
facilities, retention and detention basins and other stormwater facilities,
natural and human-made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other
drainage structures.
   STORMWATER. Any surface flow, runoff, snow melt runoff, and drainage
consisting entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation, and
resulting from such precipitation.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A document which describes the
BMPs and activities to be implemented by a person or business to identify
sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to eliminate or
reduce pollutant charges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance systems, and/or
receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   SURFACE WATER or WATERS. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, wetlands,
reservoirs, springs, rivers, drainage systems, waterways, watercourses, and
irrigation systems whether natural or artificial, public or private, except
that surface waters do not include treatment basins or ponds that were
constructed from upland.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility.
   WATERCOURSE. Any channel having definable beds and banks capable of
conducting generally confined runoff from adjacent lands. During floods water
may leave the confining beds and banks but under low and normal flows, water is
confined to within the channel. A watercourse maybe perennial or intermittent
and natural or artificially constructed. A watercourse includes all public
waters.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or border upon the State of Minnesota or any portion thereof, as
defined in M.S. § 115.01, subd. 22 and as amended from time to time.
   WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES. As defined in 33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq. (1972),
and as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 92-2019, passed 4-16-19)
§ 155.04 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all water entering the county's MS4 stormwater
system generated on any developed or undeveloped lands within the urbanized
area of the county, meaning areas with stormwater conveyance systems and
infrastructure, unless explicitly exempted by this chapter. This chapter does
not affect any liability or obligation imposed by federal law, Minnesota
Statute, Minnesota Rule, or the requirements of other agencies with regulatory
authority.
(Ord. 92-2019, passed 4-16-19)
§ 155.05 MOST RESTRICTIVE PROVISION CONTROLS.
   If a requirement imposed by this chapter differs from a comparable condition
imposed by any other applicable law, ordinance, rule, regulation, then the
provision that establishes the higher standard for the promotion and protection
of the public health, safety, and general welfare shall control and apply.
(Ord. 92-2019, passed 4-16-19)
§ 155.06 ILLICIT DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   Prohibition of illicit discharges. No person shall throw, drain, or
otherwise discharge, cause, or allow others under its control to throw, drain,
or otherwise discharge into the county's MS4 any pollutants or waters
containing any pollutants, other than stormwater. The commencement, conduct, or
continuance of any illegal discharge to the storm drain-system is prohibited
except as described as follows:
   (A)    The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this chapter: water line-flushing, or other potable water
sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising
ground water, ground water infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped
ground water, foundation or footing drains, crawl space pumps, air conditioning
condensation, springs, noncommercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian
habitat or wetland flows, swimming pools (if dechlorinated to a level of less
than one PPM chlorine), firefighting activities, and any other water source not
containing pollutants.
   (B)   Discharges specified in writing by the authorized enforcement agency
as being necessary to protect public health and safety.
   (C)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a written
notification to the authorized enforcement agency at least three days prior to
the time of the test.
   (D)   Any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver,
or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered by the
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, provided that the discharger is in full
compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other
applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has been
granted for any discharge to the storm drain system. Proof of compliance with
said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the Division prior to the
allowance of discharges to the MS4.
(Ord. 92-2019, passed 4-16-19)
§ 155.07 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES
permit shall comply with all provisions of said permit. Proof of compliance
with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the county prior to
the allowance of discharges to the county's MS4.
   (B)   The operator of a facility, including construction sites, required to
have an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater associated with industrial
activity shall submit a copy of the Notice of Intent (NOI) to the county at the
same time the operator submits the original NOI to the United States
Environmental Pollution Control Agency or MPCA, as applicable.
   (C)   The copy of the NOI shall be delivered to the county either in person,
or by mailing it to:
         Notice of Intent to Discharge Stormwater
         Carver County Environmental Services Department
         Carver County Government Center
         600 East 4th Street
         Chaska, MN 55318
   (D)   It is a violation of this chapter if a person operates a facility that
is discharging stormwater associated with industrial activity without having
submitted a copy of the NOI to do so to the county.
(Ord. 92-2019, passed 4-16-19)
§ 155.08 ILLICIT CONNECTIONS PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit
connections to the storm drainage system is prohibited.
   (B)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
   (C)   It is a violation of this chapter for a person to connect a pipe or
line from a premise that conveys sewage to the county's MS4 or to allow such a
connection to continue.
   (D)   Improper connections that violate this chapter must be disconnected
and redirected, if necessary, to an approved onsite wastewater management
system or to the sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 92-2019, passed 4-16-19)
§ 155.09 MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   General permission. Any parcel existing as of the effective date of
this chapter is presumed to have permission to discharge stormwater to the
county's MS4 system provided it complies with all provisions of NPDES permits,
grading permits and/or other development approvals in effect at the time of
development, except as provided below.
   (B)   Performance standards. The county may adopt standards applying to the
water quality, rate of flow, and volume of discharge of stormwater to the
county's MS4 system that apply retroactively to any parcel discharging
stormwater to the system.
   (C)   Suspension due to illegal discharges in emergency situations. The
county may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a person when
such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the environment, or
to the health or welfare of persons, or to the county's MS4 or Waters of the
United States or waters of the state. If the violator fails to comply with a
suspension order issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may
take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the
county's MS4 or Waters of the United States or waters of the state, or to
minimize danger to persons. This may include, but is not limited to,
installation of a storm sewer pipe plug to stop an actual or threatened
discharge.
   (D)   Suspension due to the detection of illegal discharge. Any person
discharging to the county's MS4 in violation of this chapter may have their
access to the county's MS4 terminated if such termination would abate or reduce
an illegal discharge. This may include, but is not limited to, installation of
a storm sewer pipe plug to abate or reduce an illegal discharge. The authorized
enforcement agency will notify a violator in writing of the proposed
termination of its access to the county's MS4. The violator may petition the
authorized enforcement agency in writing for reconsideration and hearing within
five business days following the termination of access to the county's MS4.
   (E)   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates access to the
county's MS4 terminated pursuant to this section, without receiving prior
written approval of the authorized enforcement agency.
(Ord. 92-2019, passed 4-16-19)
§ 155.10 COMPLIANCE MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to all facilities that have
stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity, including
construction activity.
   (B)   Right of access to facilities. The county shall be permitted to enter
and inspect property, facilities and construction activity sites subject to
regulation under this chapter at all reasonable times and as often as may be
necessary to determine compliance with this chapter or to perform any duty.
      (1)   If such a property, facility or construction site is occupied, then
the county shall first present proper identification, and request entry. If
such a property, facility or construction site is unoccupied, then the county
shall first make reasonable efforts to locate the owner or other person having
charge or control, and request entry from said person.
      (2)   The county shall have every remedy provided by law to secure entry,
including but not limited to:
         (a)   The county may seek issuance of a search warrant from any court
of competent jurisdiction if access to any part of the property, facility, or
construction site from which stormwater is discharged, is denied to the county
and:
            1.   The county can demonstrate there is probable cause to believe
there is a violation of a provision of this chapter;
            2.   There is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this chapter
or any order issued hereunder;
            3.   There is a need to protect the overall public health, safety,
and welfare of the community; and
         (b)   The county may seek an administrative search warrant. If entry
is refused, then the county shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law
to secure entry.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, in the
event that a violation of a provision of this chapter constitutes an immediate
danger to public health or public safety, then the county may enter the subject
private property, without giving prior notice, to take any and all measures
necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property.
   (C)   Inspection and sampling.
      (1)   The Divisions shall be permitted to enter, inspect and evaluate the
premises or facilities, including construction activity sites subject to
regulation under this chapter as often as may be necessary to determine and
ensure compliance with this chapter.
      (2)   If a discharger has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry onto the premises or facilities
subject to regulation under this chapter, then the discharger shall make all
necessary arrangements to allow representatives of the county to gain access.
      (3)   The owner or operator of a premise or facility subject to
regulation under this chapter shall:
         (a)   1.   Allow a Division to access all parts of the premise or
facility from which stormwater is discharged, for the purposes of conducting
inspections, sampling, examining and copying records required by NPDES permit
to discharge stormwater, and the performance of any additional duties defined
by federal and state law.
            2.   Said access shall be granted to a Division as often as may be
necessary to determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter. Any
owner or operator of a premise or facility having a NPDES permit to discharge
stormwater associated with industrial activity, and who denies an authorized
enforcement agent access to said premise or facility for the purpose of
conducting any activity authorized by this chapter, violates the chapter.
         (b)   Remove any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy
access to said premise or facility at the written request of a Division, and
shall not replace said obstruction. The owner or operator of said premise or
facility shall solely bear the costs of removing the obstruction and providing
safe and easy access.
         (c)   Provide samples requested by the Divisions free of charge, to
the Divisions to allow necessary and appropriate tests to be conducted.
         (d)   Allow the Divisions to set up devices, deemed necessary in the
opinion of the authorized enforcement agent to conduct monitoring and/or
sampling of the stormwater discharge.
         (e)   Install monitoring and sampling equipment as deemed necessary in
the opinion of the authorized enforcement agent to conduct monitoring and/or
sampling of the stormwater discharge, upon the premise or facility. Said owner
or operator shall maintain the monitoring and sampling equipment in a safe and
proper operating condition at all times at its own expense. All devices used to
measure stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated according to the
manufacturer's instruction to ensure the devices operate within their specified
parameters.
         (f)   Allow the Divisions to take samples and conduct tests of soils,
surface waters, ground water, air, raw materials, products, or other material
or residual present at or emanating from the premise or facility, if said
samples and tests are deemed necessary to demonstrate whether said premise or
facility complies with this chapter. Said premise or facility shall not charge
the Divisions for necessary sampling and tests.
         (g)   Allow the Divisions to have free access at reasonable times to
inspect and copy at a reasonable cost, all business records related to the
premise's or facility's NPDES permit to discharge stormwater, and to perform
any other duty required by federal law.
         (h)   Allow the Divisions to record and document its findings in any
reasonable and appropriate manner, including, but not limited to notes,
photographs, photocopies, read outs from analytical instruments, videotapes,
audio recordings, and computer storage systems or other electronic media.
(Ord. 92-2019, passed 4-16-19)
§ 155.11 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   (A)   The county requires the use of BMPs for any activity, operation, or
facility, which may cause or contribute to pollution or contamination of
stormwater, the storm drain system, or the waters of the state. This
requirement includes facilities and operations covered under a NPDES permit
(Industrial, Construction, and Municipal Storm Sewer System) as well as non-
permitted facilities. Guidance for selecting and implementing BMPs may be found
on the MPCA's website under the Storm Water Program.
   (B)   The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment
shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into county MS4 or
watercourses through the use of structural and non-structural BMPs. Further,
any person responsible for a property or premises, which is, or may be, the
source of an illegal discharge, may be required to implement, at said person's
expense, additional structural and non-structural BMPs to prevent the further
discharge of pollutants to the county's MS4. Compliance with all of the terms
and conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater
associated with industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed
compliance with the provisions of this division.
(Ord. 92-2019, passed 4-16-19)
§ 155.12 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, and other obstacles that would pollute, or
contaminate, the flow of water through the watercourse. In addition, the owner
or lessee shall maintain existing privately-owned structures within or adjacent
to a watercourse, so that such structures will not become a hazard to the use,
function, or physical integrity of the county's MS4.
(Ord. 92-2019, passed 4-16-19)
§ 155.13 NOTIFICATION OF RELEASES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person
responsible for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response
for a facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release
of materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or
pollutants discharging into stormwater, the storm drainage system, or waters of
the state, said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment, and cleanup of such release.
   (B)   In the event of such a release of hazardous materials, said person
shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of the occurrence via
emergency dispatch services.
   (C)   In the event of a release of non-hazardous materials, said person
shall notify the authorized enforcement agency in-person, by phone, or by e-
mail no later than the next business day. Notifications in-person or by phone
shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed or emailed to the
Division within three business days of the notice.
   (D)   If the illegal discharge emanates from a commercial or industrial
establishment, then the owner or operator of such establishment, shall also
retain an on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to
prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three
years.
(Ord. 92-2019, passed 4-16-19)
§ 155.14 ENFORCEMENT - NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the Division has reason to believe that a person has violated a
provision or failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, then the authorized
enforcement agency may order compliance by written notice of violation to the
responsible person. The notice of violation should include as much information
as necessary to identify the alleged violator and any remedial measures,
requirements for compliance, or penalties to be imposed. The notice of
violation may require without limitation:
   (A)   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
   (B)   The elimination of illicit discharges or illicit connections;
   (C)   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
   (D)   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or contamination
hazards, and the restoration of any affected property;
   (E)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs; and
   (F)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs. If abatement
of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is required, then the
notice of violation shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation or
restoration must be completed. The notice of violation shall further advise
that, should the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established
deadline, the work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a
contractor and the expense thereof shall be charged to the violator. A fine and
fee structure shall be established by County Board Resolution.
(Ord. 92-2019, passed 4-16-19)
§ 155.15 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of
the Division. The written notice of appeal must be received within ten business
days from the date of the notice of violation, and must state the grounds for
the appeal. The hearing shall be held before the County Board, or a hearing
examiner appointed by the County Board by resolution. The hearing examiner
shall conduct an evidentiary hearing; and shall make and submit findings of
fact, conclusions and recommendations to the County Board in a written report.
The County Board may adopt, modify or reject a portion of or all of the written
report, provided the County Board does not act unreasonably, arbitrarily, or
capriciously. The appellant may send a written request for an extension of time
to the Chair of the County Board. Unless the County Board grants said request
for an extension, the hearing will be held no later than 45 calendar days after
the date of service of request for a hearing, exclusive of the date of such
service. In any event, such hearing shall be held no later than 90 calendar
days after the date of service of request for hearing, exclusive of the date of
such service. The decision of the County Board following the hearing shall be
final. Any appellant aggrieved by the decision of the County Board may appeal
that decision to any court with appropriate jurisdiction. This division does
not apply to violations of other federal or state laws, or to incidents in
which a hazardous material was spilled, released, or discharged.
(Ord. 92-2019, passed 4-16-19)
§ 155.16 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, then
representatives of the authorized Division shall enter upon the subject private
property and are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the
violation and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person,
owner, agent or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the
government agency or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the
purposes set forth above.
(Ord. 92-2019, passed 4-16-19)
§ 155.17 COST OF ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION.
   After abatement of the violation by the county, the owner of the property
will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative costs. The
owner may file a written objection to the amount of the assessment within ten
business days. If the amount due is not paid within a timely manner as
determined by the decision of the Division or by the expiration of the time in
which to file an appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment against
the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the
assessment. Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the county by reason of such violation. The liability shall be
paid in not more than 12 equal payments. Interest at the rate determined by the
County Board shall be assessed on the balance beginning on the thirtieth day
following completion of the work to abate the violation.
(Ord. 92-2019, passed 4-16-19)
§ 155.18 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF AND PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail
to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has
violated or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, then the
authorized enforcement agency may petition for a preliminary or permanent
injunction restraining the person from activities which would create further
violations or compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the
violation.
   (B)   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared
and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator's expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken. The authorized enforcement agency
may also recover all attorney fees, court costs and other expenses associated
with enforcement of this chapter, including sampling and monitoring expenses,
and any additional relief the court may deem necessary and proper.
(Ord. 92-2019, passed 4-16-19)
§ 155.19 CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
   (A)   Any person who violates this chapter, or who shall permit such a
violation to occur on the premises under their control, or who shall fail to
take action to abate the existence of a violation within the specified time
period when ordered or notified to do so by the county, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor criminal offense, punishable by a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both. A separate offense shall be deemed
to be committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues
to occur. If the court imposes a sentence, then the county may ask the court to
include court-ordered restitution for any loss that the county inclined as a
direct result of the offense, including but not limited to the expenses
associated with enforcing this chapter, and the costs of sampling and
monitoring. The imposition of any sentence, including a fine, shall not exempt
the offender from compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   In the event of a threat of violation or an actual violation of this
chapter, the county may institute appropriate actions or proceedings, including
requesting injunctive relief to prevent, restrain, correct or abate such
threatened violations or actual violations.
   (C)   If a person fails to comply with any provision of this chapter, then
the county may recover costs incurred for corrective action by any means
permissible under the law. In the discretion of the County Board of
Commissioners, the costs may be certified to the Director of the Property Tax
Department as an assessment against the property on which the violation
occurred.
   (D)   Whenever the county has reason to believe a person has violated a
provision of this chapter, then the county may order compliance by written
notice of violation. The notice of violation should include as much information
as necessary to identify the alleged violator, the nature of the violation, and
any remedial measures, requirements for compliance, or penalties to be imposed.
   (E)   When the county concludes that a person has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, or any order issued hereunder, and that
the violation(s) has (have) caused or contributed to a threatened or actual
discharge to the MS4 or waters of the state which reasonably appears to present
an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or
to the environment, then the county may issue an emergency order directing the
violator to:
      (1)   Immediately cease and desist;
      (2)   Immediately comply with all chapter requirements; and
      (3)   Take such appropriate preventative action as may be needed to
properly address a threatened or continuing violation, including immediately
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
   (F)   In the event a person fails to comply with the requirements of an
emergency order issued pursuant to this section, then the county may take such
steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize harm to the MS4 or waters of
the state, and/or endangerment to persons or to the environment, including
immediate termination of a facility's water supply, sewer connection, or other
municipal utility services. Issuance of an emergency order shall not prevent
the county from, or require the county to, take any other action against the
violator.
   (G)   The county may, without prior notice, suspend the MS4 discharge access
to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened
discharge which presents or may present an imminent or substantial danger to
the public health and welfare, the environment, the county's MS4, or waters of
the state. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an
emergency, the county may take such steps as may be necessary to minimize the
danger.
   (H)   It is a violation of this chapter to reinstate access to the county's
MS4 terminated pursuant to this section, without prior approval of the county.
(Ord. 92-2019, passed 4-16-19)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Minnesota Rules
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Cite Code Section
M.S. Cite                            Code Section
Chapter 13                           55.08
13.37                                93.08
13.82                                55.07
13D.05                               30.01
15.73, subd. 3                       93.03
                                     113.27,
                                     152.216,
                                     152.249,
15.99                                152.250,
                                     152.272,
                                     153.11,
                                     154.10
Chapter 17                           54.04
17.81                                53.02
                                     56.02,
17.117                               56.03,
                                     56.07,
                                     56.09
17.135                               50.071
35.71, subd. 3                       92.10
41.69                                51.50
18.44 - 18.61                        50.002
18C.430                              54.04
84.81 - 84.91                        91.08
85.40 - 85.45                        91.08
86B.005                              91.11
86B.205                              91.11
88.01 - 88.22                        53.03
93.44 - 93.51                     152.118.2
Chapter 103B                         152.003
103B.211 - 103B.255                  153.03
Chapter 103E                         152.051,
                                     153.40
                                     152.003,
Chapter 103F                         152.108,
                                     152.143
103F.48                              54.04,
                                     152.010
Chapter 103G                         152.126,
                                     153.57
103G.005, subd. 14                152.145
103G.005, subd. 15                152.010
103G.005, subd. 15a                  152.010,
                                     153.02
103G.005(17b)                        54.04
103G.005, subd. 19                   153.02
                                     152.010,
103G.245                             152.118.1,
                                     152.147,
                                     152.153
Chapter 103I                         56.02,
                                     56.03
103I.005, subd. 21                   56.03,
                                     56.06
103I.301, subd. 1                    56.06
Chapter 106                          152.054
                                     54.03,
Chapter 115                          56.02,
                                     155.01,
                                     155.03
115.01, subd. 22                     155.03
Chapter 115A                         50.001,
                                     50.006
115A.03                              50.002
115A.03(10)                          50.002
115A.03(29)                          50.002
115.55                               52.003
115.55, subd. 3                      56.04,
                                     56.05
115.56                               52.003
115.57                               56.10
115A.90                              50.002
115A.99(1)                           50.009
115A.882                             50.005,
                                     50.006
                                     54.03,
Chapter 116                          54.04,
                                     155.01,
                                     155.03
116.06                               50.002,
                                     53.02
116.07(4)(k)                         50.073
116.0711                             152.113
116.18, subd. 3c                     56.03
116.75 - 116.83                      50.075
144.391                              111.01
144.414                              91.02
                                     50.001,
                                     51.02,
                                     55.01,
Chapter 145A                         55.03,
                                     55.11,
                                     155.01,
                                     155.03
145A.01 through 145A.08              52.003
145A.02, subd. 2                     55.03
145A.02, subd. 17                    55.03
                                     55.06,
145A.04                              55.08,
                                     91.02,
                                     94.02
145A.04, subd. 7                     55.05
145A.04, subd. 8                     55.06
145A.04, subd. 8(b)                  55.08
145A.04, subd. 8(c)                  55.12
145A.04, subd. 10                    55.07
                                     50.001,
145A.05                              91.02,
                                     94.02
145A.05(7)(a)                        130.02
                                     55.06,
145A.08                              55.08,
                                     55.12
Chapter 152                          55.01
152.01, subd. 4                      55.03
152.02                               91.03
152.0263                             91.02
152.0263, subd. 5                    94.01
152.0275, subd. 2                    55.10
155.55, subd. 6                      52.161
157.15(12)                           54.04
168.002, subd. 27                    91.05
Chapter 169                          91.08,
                                     91.09
169.01                               50.002
169.346                              152.038
169A.03, subd. 15                    91.05
Chapter 176                          50.033
176.041                              51.25
216B.02                              93.03
216B.02, subd. 4                     93.03
216B.02, subd. 6                     93.03
216B.1642                            152.057
216C.03, subd. 14                    152.215
                                     93.17,
Chapter 216D                         93.26,
                                     93.27
216D.01 - 216D.09                    93.17
216D.04, subd. 3                     93.03
237.16                               93.01
237.79                               93.01
237.81                               93.01
                                     93.01,
237.162                              93.03,
                                     93.19
237.162, subd. 4                     93.03
                                     93.01,
237.163                              93.03,
                                     93.19
237.163, subd. 2(b)                  93.02
237.163, subds. 4(c)(1) - 4(c)(5)  93.20
237.163, subd. 6                     93.31
Chapter 238                          93.03
238.086                              93.01
272.115                              52.199
279.03(1)                            50.007
302A.105                             93.07
307.08                               152.010
Chapter 308A                         93.03
325E.11                              51.20
Chapter 326B                         152.010
326B.101 - 326B.197                  150.01
327.31 - 327.35                      152.010
340A.401 - 340A.510                  110.03
340A.503(6)                          130.05
340A.504                             110.01
340A.504, subd. 3                    110.04
                                     91.02,
                                     94.01,
Chapter 342                          114.01,
                                     114.16,
                                     152.010,
                                     152.098
342.01                               114.04
342.13                               114.17
342.17                               114.04
342.22                               114.02,
                                     114.17
342.22, subd. 5(e)                   114.99
343                                  92.06,
                                     92.11
344.02, subds. 1(a) - 1(d)           152.010
Chapter 347                          92.08
347.50 through 347.565               92.01,
                                     92.05
347.51                               92.08
347.51, subd. 2(a)                   92.07,
                                     92.08
347.51, subd. 8                      92.01
347.52                               92.08
347.56                               92.11
347.515                              92.08
347.565                              92.01
349.11 - 349.22                      112.02,
                                     112.06
349.12, sub. 11                      112.07
349.14                               112.06
349.213                              112.01
                                     50.001,
Chapter 375                          55.01,
                                     155.01
375.18, subd. 14                     152.057
                                     52.003,
375.51                               91.11,
                                     152.286
                                     54.03,
                                     113.01,
Chapter 394                          151.005,
                                     152.108,
                                     152.143,  
                                     152.215
394.21                               152.010,
                                     152.213
                                     52.004,
394.21 - 394.37                      152.210,
                                     152.230
394.23                               152.003
                                     152.251,
394.26                               152.285,
                                     152.286
394.27                               152.213
394.27, subd. 7                      152.010
394.36                               152.009,
                                     152.135
394.361                              152.010
Chapter 398                          91.01
398.31 - 398.36                      91.02
398.34                               91.99
398.36                               30.01
Chapter 400                          50.001
400.08                               50.007
400.08(4)(c)                         50.007
Chapter 429                          93.24
Chapter 453                          93.03
Chapter 453A                         93.03,
                                     152.191
459.20                               91.11
Chapter 462                          93.24 ,
                                     152.191
462C.16                              32.01,
                                     32.03
466.04                               50.027
Chapter 473                          50.001,
                                     51.02
473.803                              50.002
473.811                              50.005,
                                     50.007
473.848                              50.029
473.852                              153.02
473.864                              152.010
473.865                              152.003
Chapter 473H                         152.010,
                                     152.057
Chapter 505                          151.005,
                                     151.007
505.11                               150.30
561.19                               54.07,
                                     152.070
562.358                              151.007
Chapter 609                          111.12
609.02                               92.06
609.02(3)                            91.11,
                                     91.99
609.02(4a)                           91.99
609.72, subd. 1                      91.05
609.205, subd. 4                     92.12
609.226, subd. 1                     92.12
609.226, subd. 2                     92.12
609.487, subd. 2a                    55.03
609.685, subd. 1(a)                  91.03
617.241                              113.12,
                                     113.45
617.242                              113.09
626.556                              55.07
626.5572, subd. 21                   55.03
626.84, subd. 1                      94.99
                                     
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA RULES
Minn. Rules Cite Code Section
Minn. Rules Cite                        Code Section
Chapter 1340                            152.114
Chapter 1341                            152.117
Chapter 4410                            152.134
4410.0200 - 4410.7800                   151.044
4410.4300, subpart 19a                  152.134
4410.4300, subpart 20a                  152.134
4410.4300, subpart 25                   152.134
4410.4300, subpart 27                   152.134
4410.4300, subpart 28                   152.134
4410.4300, subpart 29                   152.134
4410.4300, subpart 36a                  152.134
Chapter 4714                            52.022
                                        52.022,
Chapter 4725                            54.05,
                                        54.47
4725.2050                               52.132
4725.4350                               152.151
Chapter 6105                            52.022
6110.3000-6110.3800                     91.11
6110.3700, subpart 9                    91.11
6115.0150 -6115.0520                    152.114,
                                        152.118.1
6115.0321                               152.131.1
Chapter 6120                            52.022
6120.2500 - 6120.3900                   152.108,
                                        152.109
6120.3000, subpart 4                    152.134
6120.3300                               152.111,
                                        153.60
6120.3400                               153.60
6120.5000 - 6120.6200                   152.117
Chapters 7000 - 7150                    51.03
Chapter 7001                            51.09,
                                        51.26
7001.102,  subpart 5                    155.03
7001.3300                               50.076
                                        54.03 -
                                        54.05,
Chapter 7020                            54.30,
                                        54.32,
                                        54.62,
                                        152.071
7020.0350                               54.04,
                                        152.010
7020.0505                               54.04
7020.0535                               54.04
7020.2000                               54.04
7020.2000 - 7020.2225                   54.32
7020.2125                               54.61
                                        54.60,
7020.2225                               54.61,
                                        54.63,
                                        54.65
Chapter 7030                            152.037
7035.0300                               50.002
7035.0300 - 7035.2875                   50.003
7035.2845                               50.055
7035.2865                               50.054
7035.9100 - 7035.9150                   50.075
                                        51.09,
Chapter 7045                            51.26,
                                        51.40
7045.0020(3)(a)                         51.03
7045.0020, subpart 4                    51.09
7045.0020, subpart 6a, item B           51.09
7045.0020, subpart 9c                   51.09
7045.0020, subpart 10b                  51.09
7045.0020, subpart 13a                  51.09
7045.0020, subpart 15, item A(4)        51.09
7045.0020, subpart 23a                  51.09
7045.0020, subpart 24                   51.03
7045.0020, subpart 24, item B           51.09
7045.0020, subpart 31                   51.03
7045.0020, subpart 43.b                 51.09
7045.0020, subpart 58a                  51.09
7045.0020, subpart 66                   51.09
7045.0020, subpart 73h                  51.09
7045.0020, subpart 85a                  51.09
7045.0060                               51.09
7045.0070                               51.09
7045.0075                               51.09
7045.0080                               51.09
7045.0090                               51.09
7045.0121, subpart 2, item D            51.09
7045.0125                               51.25
7045.0125, subpart 4, item N            51.09
7045.0125, subpart 9, item D            51.09
7045.0125, subpart 9, item D            51.09
7045.0129                               51.09
7045.1300 - 7045.1380                   51.11
7045.0131                               51.03
7045.0131, subpart 1                    51.09
7045.0131, subpart 7                    51.09
7045.0133                               51.09
7045.0135, subpart 1, paragraph 3       51.09
7045.0139                               51.09
7045.0205 - 7045.0990                   51.11
7045.0208, subpart 2, item C            51.09
7045.0210                               51.09
7045.0212                               51.09
7045.0214                               51.09
7045.0218                               51.09
7045.0225, subpart 1                    51.09
7045.0230 - 7045.0248                   51.25
7045.0230                               51.25
7045.0230, subpart 1                    51.09
7045.0240                               51.09
7045.0243, subpart 1                    51.09
7045.0243, subpart 3, item C            51.09
7045.0243, subpart 3, item D            51.09
7045.0243(3)(G)                         51.25
7045.0248                               51.25
7045.0248, subpart 1, item B            51.09
7045.0250                               51.09
7045.0261, subpart 2                    51.09
7045.0261, subpart 5                    51.09
7045.0261, subpart 5, item B            51.09
7045.0261, subpart 6                    51.09
7045.0261, subpart 9                    51.09
7045.0265                               51.09
7045.0265, subpart 1D                   51.09
7045.0265, subpart 2B                   51.09
7045.0265, subpart 3B                   51.09
7045.0265, subpart 4A                   51.09
7045.0275, subpart 2                    51.09
7045.0292, subparts 1, 5, 6, 8          51.09
7045.0294, subpart 1a, item B           51.09
7045.0302                               51.09
7045.0302, subpart 1                    51.09
7045.0302, subpart 2                    51.09
7045.0310                               51.20
7045.0310, subpart 3, items B,C,D       51.09
7045.0310, subpart 5, item C            51.09
7045.0310, subpart 6, item D            51.09
7045.0320, subpart 9                    51.09
7045.0320, subpart 9, item D            51.09
7045.0320, subpart 10                   51.09
7045.0351, subpart 1                    51.09
7045.0355                               51.09
7045.0361                               51.09
7045.0395                               51.09
7045.0397                               51.09
7045.0450, subpart 1                    51.09
7045.0450(3)(K)                         51.25
7045.0452, subpart 2                    51.09
7045.0460, subpart 1, item A            51.09
7045.0468, subpart 2                    51.09
7045.0474                               51.09
7045.0474, subpart 2, item D            51.09
7045.0476, subpart 3, item A            51.09
7045.0498 - 7045.0524                   51.09
7045.0518                               51.25
7045.0528, subpart 4, item D(4)         51.09
7045.0528, subpart 8, item D(1)         51.09
7045.0545                               51.09
7045.0545, subparts 1 - 7               51.09
7045.0546                               51.09
7045.0547                               51.09
7045.0548                               51.09
7045.0552 -7045.0606                    51.25
7045.0552 -7045.0648                    51.25
7045.0552, subpart 2                    51.09
7045.0552, subpart 3, item A            51.09
7045.0554                               51.09
7045.0554, subpart 1                    51.09
7045.0556, subpart 2                    51.09
7045.0558                               51.25
7045.0562(1)                            51.25
7045.0562(2)                            51.25
7045.0566 - 7045.0576                   51.25
7045.0580                               51.09
7045.0580, subpart 2, item D            51.09
7045.0582, subpart 3, item A            51.09
7045.0608 - 7045.0624                   51.09
7045.0620                               51.25
7045.0626 - 7045.0642                   51.25
7045.0628, subpart 4, item D(4)         51.09
7045.0652                               51.25
7045.0652, subpart 2, item B            51.09
7045.0655, subpart 1                    51.09
7045.0685                               51.03
7045.0686                               51.09
7045.0790, subpart 7                    51.09
7045.0855(3)                            51.25
7045.0875, subpart 8, item B            51.09
7045.0990                               51.09
7045.1000 - 7045.1030                   51.09
7045.1309                               51.09
7045.1315, subpart 2, item G            51.09
7045.1360                               51.09
7045.1380, subpart 1, item A            51.09
7045.1400                               51.12
7045.1400 et seq.                       51.12
Chapter 7046                            51.09
Chapter 7050                            54.04,
                                        54.05
Chapter 7055                            54.04
                                        52.003,
                                        52.020,
                                        50.021,
                                        52.147,
Chapter 7080                            52.162,
                                        52.163,
                                        52.196,
                                        152.010,
                                        152.035
                                        56.02,
Chapters 7080 - 7083                    56.04,
                                        56.05,
                                        56.06
7080.215, Table VII                     52.022
7080.1100, subpart 84                   52.198
                                        52.021,
7080.1500                               52.075,
                                        52.197
7080.1500, subpart 4, item A            52.056
7080.1500, subpart 4, item B            52.021,
                                        52.055
7080.1500, subpart 6                    52.021
7080.1710, item B                       52.022
7080.1720, subpart 5, items B, D, and F 52.197
7080.1730                               52.076
7080.1730, item B                       52.021
7080.1730, item F                       52.021
7080.1930, subpart 1, Table V           52.021
7080.2000, item C                       52.021
7080.2010, subpart 1, item A            52.021,
                                        52.075
7080.2100, subpart 2, item B            52.021
7080.2150, Table VII                    52.022
7080.2150, subpart 2, items A through D 52.147
7080.2150, subpart 2, Table VII         52.021
7080.2150, subpart 3, item E, Table IX  52.023
7080.2150, subpart 3, item E, Table IXa 52.023
                                        52.024,
7080.2210 through 7080.2230             52.042,
                                        52.162
7080.2220, subpart 2, item B            52.021
7080.2220, subpart 3, item J            52.021
7080.2230, subpart 2, item C            52.021
7080.2270                               52.025,
                                        152.151
7080.2270, subpart 10                   52.021
7080.2290                               52.024
7080.2290, item D                       52.021
7080.2350                               52.021,
                                        52.147
7080.2400                               52.021
7080.2430                               52.076
7080.2450                               52.098
7080.2450, subpart 8                    52.072
7080.2500                               52.058
                                        52.003,
                                        52.020,
                                        52.021,
Chapter 7081                            52.147,
                                        52.162,
                                        52.163,
                                        52.196,
                                        152.010
7081.0080, subparts 2 through 5         52.147
7081.0110                               52.147
                                        52.024,
7081.0270, subparts 3 through 7         52.042,
                                        52.162
                                        52.003,
Chapter 7082                            52.020,
                                        52.147,
                                        152.010
7082.0100, subpart 1, item A            52.021
7082.0100, subpart 3, item G            52.024
7082.0600                               52.076
7082.0700, subpart 2, item A1           52.021
7082.0700, subpart 3                    152.134
7082.0700, subpart 5                    52.167
                                        52.003,
Chapter 7083                            52.020,
                                        152.010
7083.0700, item B                       52.021
7083.0700, item F                       52.021
7083.0770, subpart 2                    52.021
7083.4030                               52.004
Chapter 7090                            155.01,
                                        155.03
Chapter 7560                            93.17,
                                        93.19
7560.0150, subpart 2                    93.24
Chapter 7819                            93.30
7819.0050 - 7819.9950                   93.01
7819.1000, subpart 3                    93.09
                                        93.03,
7819.1100                               93.14,
                                        93.19
7819.1250                               93.29
7819.1300                               93.20
7819.3100                               93.25
7819.3200                               93.28
7819.4000                               93.24
7819.4100                               93.24
7819.5000                               93.19,
                                        93.25
7819.5100                               93.25
7819.9900 - 7819.9950                   93.03
Chapter 8410                            153.03
                                        152.126,
Chapter 8420                            153.02,
                                        153.59
8420.0111                               152.010
8800.0100 - 8800.1200                   152.037
9220.0200 - 9220.0300                   50.003
9220.0440 - 9220.0510                   50.057,
                                        50.058
9220.0450 - 9220.0510                   50.003
Chapter 7560                            93.16,
                                        93.18
7560.0150, subpart 2                    93.23
7819.0050 - 7819.9950                   93.01
7819.1000, subpart 3                    93.09
                                        93.03,
7819.1100                               93.13,
                                        93.18
7819.1250                               93.28
7819.1300                               93.19
7819.3000                               93.13
7819.3100                               93.24
7819.3200                               93.27
7819.4000                               93.23
7819.4100                               93.23
7819.5000                               93.18,
                                        93.24
7819.5100                               93.24
7819.9900 - 7819.9950                   93.03
                                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.            Date Passed Code Section
                                50.001 -
                                50.009,
                                50.020 -
                                50.033,
                                50.045 -
4C                  11-14-00    50.060,
                                50.070 -
                                50.077,
                                50.090 -
                                50.096,
                                50.999
4C                  11-23-04    50.007
                                53.01 -
5B                  6-26-01     53.13,
                                53.99
6                   5-16-89     150.30 -
                                150.34
6A                  5-16-89     150.30 -
                                150.34
19                  6-10-80     30.01
                                130.01 -
25                  2-1-96      130.06,
                                130.99
                                51.01 -
                                51.09,
                                51.20 -
28F                 10-31-00    51.26,
                                51.40 -
                                51.50,
                                51.99
29                  2-25-86     112.01 -
                                112.08
                                91.01 -
30                  4-14-87     91.10,
                                91.99
33, § 1.1          1-21-92     151.001
33, § 1.2          1-21-92     151.002
33, § 1.3          1-21-92     151.003
33, § 1.4          1-21-92     151.004
33, § 1.5          1-21-92     151.005
33, § 1.6          1-21-92     151.006
33, § 1.7          1-21-92     151.008
33, § 1.8          1-21-92     151.009
33, § 1.9          1-21-92     151.010
33, § 1.10         1-21-92     151.011
33, § 1.11         1-21-92     151.012
33, § 1.12         1-21-92     151.013
33, § 2.1          1-21-92     151.025
33, § 2.2          1-21-92     151.026
33, § 2.3          1-21-92     151.027
33, § 2.5          1-21-92     151.029
33, § 3.1          1-21-92     151.040
33, § 3.2          1-21-92     151.041
33, § 3.3          1-21-92     151.042
33, § 3.4          1-21-92     151.043
33, § 3.5          1-21-92     151.044
33, § 4.1          1-21-92     151.055
33, § 4.2          1-21-92     151.056
33, § 4.3          1-21-92     151.057
33, § 4.4          1-21-92     151.058
33, § 4.5          1-21-92     151.059
33, § 4.6          1-21-92     151.060
33, § 4.7          1-21-92     151.061
33, § 4.8          1-21-92     151.062
33, § 5.1          1-21-92     151.075
33, § 5.2          1-21-92     151.076
33, § 5.3          1-21-92     151.077
33, § 5.4          1-21-92     151.078
33, § 5.5          1-21-92     151.079
33, § 5.6          1-21-92     151.080
33, § 5.7          1-21-92     151.081
33, § 5.8          1-21-92     151.082
33, § 5.9          1-21-92     151.083
33, § 6.1          1-21-92     151.095
33, § 6.2          1-21-92     151.096
33, § 6.3          1-21-92     151.097
33, § 6.4          1-21-92     151.098
33, § 6.5          1-21-92     151.099
33, § 6.7          1-21-92     151.101
33, § 8.1          1-21-92     151.135
33, § 8.2          1-21-92     151.136
33, § 8.3          1-21-92     151.137
33, § 8.4          1-21-92     151.138
33, § 8.5          1-21-92     151.140
33, § 8.6          1-21-92     151.141
33, § 8.7          1-21-92     151.142
33, § 8.8          1-21-92     151.143
33, § 8.9          1-21-92     151.144
33, § 9.0          1-21-92     151.164
33, § 13.0         1-21-92     151.007
38                  8-16-94     110.01 -
                                110.04
                                111.01 -
42                  2-10-98     111.12,
                                111.99
                                90.01 -
44-89               -22-82      90.06,
                                90.99
                                152.001 -
                                152.011,
                                152.025 -
                                152.038,
                                150.040,
                                152.050 -
                                152.056,
                                152.070 -
                                152.074,
                                152.080,
                                152.095 -
                                152.097,
                                152.099,
                                152.111 -
                                152.118,
                                152.120 -
                                152.132,
                                152.145,
47                  7-23-02     152.147 -
                                152.149,
                                152.160 -
                                152.162,
                                152.175 -
                                152.179,
                                152.190,
                                152.191,
                                152.210 -
                                152.218,
                                152.230 -
                                152.234,
                                152.245 -
                                152.252,
                                152.265 -
                                152.274,
                                152.285 -
                                152.291,
                                152.999
47 03-1             5-5-03      152.010,
                                152.070
                                54.01 -
                                54.07,
                                54.15 -
                                54.19,
                                54.30,
49                  7-7-03      54.31,
                                54.34,
                                54.45 -
                                54.48,
                                54.60,
                                54.62 -
                                54.64
52                  11-25-03    150.01 -
                                150.05
                                55.01 -
53-2004             8-2-04      55.03,
                                55.07 -
                                55.13
55-2005             4-19-05     31.01
                                153.01 -
                                153.03,
                                153.10,
                                153.11,
                                153.40,
57-2005             1-10-06     153.42,
                                153.55,
                                153.56,
                                153.59 -
                                153.61,
                                153.70 -
                                153.74
Fee service Ord. 48 12-19-06    50.007
                                56.01 -
                                56.10,
                                152.006,
                                152.010,
                                152.032,
                                152.036,
                                152.039,
                                152.054,
                                152.073,
                                152.074,
                                152.076,
                                152.078,
                                152.079,
58-2007             3-27-07     152.080,
                                152.097,
                                152.234,
                                152.238,
                                154.01 -
                                154.04,
                                154.10 -
                                154.15,
                                154.20 -
                                154.28,
                                154.35,
                                154.40,
                                154.41,
                                154.45
                                51.01 -
                                51.12,
                                51.20 -
60-2007             8-14-07     51.26,
                                51.40 -
                                51.50,
                                51.99
61-2007             11-6-07     91.06
62-2007             12-11-07    54.31,
                                150.02
63-2008             2-26-08     150.01
64-2008             4-8-08      56.07,
                                152.035
65-2009             8-4-09      91.04
                                113.01 -
                                113.12,
                                113.25 -
66-2010             4-13-10     113.33,
                                113.45,
                                113.46,
                                113.99;
                                152.097
                                52.001 -
                                52.012,
                                52.020 -
                                52.026,
                                52.40 -
                                52.043,
                                52.055,
                                52.056,
                                52.058,
                                52.070 -
                                52.084,
                                52.095 -
                                52.098,
67-2010             5-17-11     52.110 -
                                52.118,
                                52.130 -
                                52.134,
                                52.145 -
                                52.147,
                                52.160 -
                                52.167,
                                52.180 -
                                52.182,
                                52.195 -
                                52.199,
                                52.210 -
                                52.213,
                                52.999
                                92.01 -
69-2010             8-10-10     92.15,
                                92.99
                                151.005,
                                151.007,
                                151.028,
                                151.040,
                                151.043,
                                151.055,
                                151.098,
                                151.099,
                                151.137,
                                151.141,
                                151.144,
                                151.156,
                                151.159 -
                                151.163,
                                151.175,
                                152.006,
                                152.007,
                                152.009,
                                152.010,
                                152.027,
                                152.032 -
                                152.035,
                                152.037,
                                152.038,
                                152.040,
                                152.050,
70-2010             1-25-11     152.051,
                                152.054,
                                152.071 -
                                152.074,
                                152.077 -
                                152.082 -
                                152.122,
                                152.145,
                                152.149,
                                152.160 -
                                152.162,
                                152.177,
                                152.190,
                                152.215,
                                152.216,
                                152.218,
                                152.245 -
                                152.248,
                                152.250 -
                                152.252,
                                152.268,
                                152.999,
                                154.10,
                                154.11,
                                154.20,
                                154.21,
                                154.23 -
                                154.25
                                91.01 -
72-2011             1-17-12     91.10,
                                91.99
                                53.01,
                                53.02,
73-2012             3-20-12     53.04 -
                                53.11,
                                53.13
74-2012             6-19-12     50.046,
                                50.071
                                153.01 -
                                153.03,
                                153.10,
                                153.11,
                                153.40,
                                153.42,
75-2012             6-26-12     153.55,
                                153.56,
                                153.59 -
                                153.61,
                                153.70 -
                                153.74,
                                Ch. 153, Apps A and
                                B
76-2013             6-18-13     55.01 -
                                55.15
                                152.010,
                                152.036,
                                152.039,
                                152.073 -
80-2015             6-16-15     152.075,
                                152.080,
                                152.082,
                                152.191,
                                152.215,
                                152.234
                                91.03,
82-2015             1-5-16      91.05,
                                111.02,
                                111.04
                                153.01 -
                                153.03,
                                153.10,
                                153.11,
                                153.40,
                                153.42,
83-2016             9-20-16     153.55,
                                153.56,
                                153.59 -
                                153.62,
                                153.70 -
                                153.74,
                                Ch. 153, App A
                                50.002,
85-2018             6-19-18     50.026,
                                50.027
                                91.01 -
86-2018             8-21-18     91.10,
                                91.99
                                152.006,
                                152.009,
                                152.010,
                                152.143 -
                                152.156,
                                152.190,
                                152.215,
                                152.216,
88-2018             11-20-18    152.245,
                                152.247,
                                152.248,
                                152.250,
                                152.271,
                                152.273,
                                152.285,
                                152.286,
                                152.999
89-2018             12-18-18    56.01 -
                                56.10
                                52.004,
                                52.021,
90-2018             12-18-18    52.022,
                                52.074,
                                52.110,
                                52.211
91-2019             2-5-19      93.01 -
                                93.33
92-2019             4-16-19     155.01 -
                                155.19
                                152.001 -
                                152.011,
                                152.025 -
                                152.038, 152.049 -
                                152.057,
                                152.070 -
                                152.082,
                                152.095 -
                                152.097,
                                152.099,
                                152.108,
                                152.109,
                                152.111 -
                                152.118.2,
                                152.120 -
                                152.135,
                                152.143 -
97-2021             7-20-21     152.156,
                                152.160 -
                                152.162,
                                152.175 -
                                152.179,
                                152.190,
                                152.191,
                                152.210 -
                                152.218,
                                152.230 -
                                152.234,
                                152.245 -
                                152.252,
                                152.265 -
                                152.274,
                                152.285 -
                                152.291,
                                152.999
98-2022             5-3-22      91.11
                                153.01 -
                                153.03,
                                153.10,
                                153.11,
99-2022             6-28-22     153.40 -
                                153.45,
                                153.55 -
                                153.64,
                                153.70 -
                                153.74
                                54.01 -
                                54.07,
                                54.15 -
                                54.19,
101-2022            7-19-22     54.30 -
                                54.34,
                                54.45 -
                                54.48,
                                54.60 -
                                54.65
                                150.01 -
Res. 93-22          11-15-22    150.05,
                                150.30 -
                                150.33
104-2023            12-19-23    32.01 -
                                32.05
                                91.01 -
105-2024            5-21-24     91.11,
                                91.99
                                94.01 -
106-2024            5-21-24     94.05,
                                94.99
                                152.005,
                                152.009,
                                152.010,
                                152.033,
                                152.034,
                                152.038,
                                152.041,
                                152.071,
108-2024            11-19-24    152.073,
                                152.074,
                                152.078 -
                                152.080,
                                152.082,
                                152.097 -
                                152.099,
                                152.115.1,
                                152.118.2,
                                152.134
                                114.01 -
                                114.04,
                                114.15 -
111-2025            7-25-25     114.19,
                                114.30 -
                                114.33,
                                114.99
                               
 
