CLARA CITY, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. passed 11-9-2022
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE 323
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR CLARA CITY, MINNESOTA, AMENDING,
RESTATING, REVISING, UPDATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND
PROVIDING PENAL TIES FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   WHEREAS Minnesota Statutes §§ 415.02 and 415.021 authorize the city to cause
its ordinances to be codified and printed in a book,
   NOW THEREFORE the City Council of Clara City, Minnesota, ordains:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the city as amended, restated, revised,
updated, codified, and compiled in book form, including penalties for the
violations of various provisions thereof, are adopted and shall constitute the
Code of Ordinances of Clara City. This Code of Ordinances also adopts, by
reference, certain statutes and administrative rules of the State of Minnesota
as named in the Code of Ordinances.
   Section 2. The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following titles:
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   INDEX
   Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to subjects treated in the Code
of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of
this ordinance, except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in part
in the Code of Ordinances; provided this repeal shall not affect any offense
committed or penalty incurred, or any right established prior to the effective
date of this ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions of
ordinances levying taxes; appropriating money; annexing or detaching territory;
establishing franchises; granting special rights to certain persons;
authorizing public improvements; authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money; authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property;
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use; or
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
this repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code of Ordinances.
All fees established in prior ordinances shall remain in effect unless amended
in this Code of Ordinances, or until an ordinance adopting a fee schedule is
adopted or amended.
   Section 4. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances shall be a
sufficient publication of any ordinance included in it and not previously
published in the city's official newspaper. The City Clerk shall cause a
substantial quantity of the Code of Ordinances to be printed for general
distribution to the public at actual cost, and shall furnish a copy of the Code
of Ordinances to the County Law Library or its designated depository. The
official copy of this Code of Ordinances shall be marked and be kept in the
office of the City Clerk.
   Section 5. The Code of Ordinances is declared to be prima facie evidence of
the law of the city and shall be received in evidence as provided by Minnesota
Statutes by the courts of the State of Minnesota.
   Section 6. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances, and the Code of
Ordinances itself, shall take effect upon publication of this ordinance in the
city's official newspaper.
   Passed by the City Council of Clara City, Minnesota this 12th day of January
2010.
______________________________
Joseph J. Thissen, Mayor
ATTESTED:
________________________________
Kyle H. Morell, City Administrator
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Clara City Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of the city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance.
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The City of Clara City, Minnesota.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      CONVICTION. Either of the following accepted and recorded by the court:
         (a)   A plea of guilty; or
         (b)   A verdict of guilty by a jury or a finding of guilty by the
court.
      COUNTY. The County of Chippewa, Minnesota.
      CRIME. Conduct which is prohibited by ordinance and for which the actor
may be sentenced to imprisonment or fine.
      EX-OFFICIO MEMBER. A person who is not counted for the purpose of
determining a quorum, and has no right to vote, but shall have the right and
obligation (within his or her discretion) to speak to any question coming
before the board, commission or other deliberative body of which he or she is a
member.
      INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of
the lateral curb line or, if no curb, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways or streets which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different streets
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in those cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      ORDINANCE. An ordinance duly adopted by the City Council of Clara City,
Minnesota.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      POLICE OFFICER and PEACE OFFICER. Every officer, including special
police, authorized to direct or regulate traffic, keep the peace and appointed
or employed for the purpose of law enforcement.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property not included within the definition of
public property or public place.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY and PUBLIC PLACE. Any place, property or premises
dedicated to public use, owned by the city, occupied by the city as a lessee,
or occupied by the city as a street by reason of an easement, including, but
not limited to, streets, parks or parking lots so owned or occupied.
      ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel. In the event a street includes two or more separate
roadways, the term ROADWAY, as used herein, shall refer to any roadway
separately, but not to all roadways collectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      STREET. The entire area dedicated to public use, or contained in an
easement or other conveyance or grant to the city, and shall include, but not
be limited to, roadways, boulevards, sidewalks, alleys and other public
property between lateral property lines in which a roadway lies.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(Prior Code, § 1.02)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Administrator for public inspection. The Administrator shall provide a copy for
sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES BY REFERENCE.
   It is the intention of the City Council that all future amendments to any
state or federal rules and statutes adopted by reference in this code or
referenced in this code are hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if
they had been in existence at the time this code was adopted, unless there is
clear intention expressed in the code to the contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the city’s Police Department, the County
Sheriff or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any provision
of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as may be amended from time to time,
the City Administrator shall have the authority to administer and enforce this
code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain individuals
designated within the code or by the Administrator or City Council shall have
the authority to administer and enforce the provisions specified. All and any
person or persons designated may issue a citation in lieu of arrest or
continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Administrator and any city official or employee designated by
this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may with
the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or resident
of a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or otherwise
enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Administrator, peace officer or any employee or official charged with the duty
of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable
cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting
the inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only
to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (E)   Every licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property
within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or entrance to
the property by the City Administrator or any other authorized city officer or
employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are being complied with
and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit the inspection
of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for termination of any and all
permits, licenses or city service to the property. Mailed notice shall be given
to the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of the property,
stating the grounds for the termination, and the licensee, owner, resident or
other person in control of the property shall be given an opportunity to appear
before the City Administrator to object to the termination before it occurs,
subject to appeal of the Administrator’s decision to the City Council at a
regularly scheduled or special meeting.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to those administrative penalties established in
this code and the enforcement powers granted in §
10.20, the City Council is authorized to create, by resolution adopted by a
majority of the members of the Council, supplemental administrative penalties.
The resolution may be in the form established by the Council.
      (2)   These administrative penalty procedures in this section are
intended to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost effective
and expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
certain provisions of this code. The procedures are intended to be voluntary on
the part of those who have been charged with those offenses.
      (3)   Administrative penalties for violations of various provisions of
the code, other than those penalties established in the code or in statutes
that are adopted by reference, may be established from time to time by
resolution of a majority of the members of the City Council. In order to be
effective, an administrative penalty for a particular violation must be
established before the violation occurred.
      (4)   In the discretion of the peace officer, City Administrator or other
person giving notice of an alleged violation of a provision of this code, in a
written notice of an alleged violation, sent by first class mail to the person
who is alleged to have violated the code, the person giving notice may request
the payment of a voluntary administrative penalty for the violation directly to
the City Treasurer within 14 days of the notice of the violation. In the sole
discretion of the person giving the notice of the alleged violation, the time
for payment may be extended an additional 14 days, whether or not requested by
the person to whom the notice has been given. In addition to the administrative
penalty, the person giving notice may request in the notice to the alleged
violator to adopt a compliance plan to correct the situation resulting in the
alleged violation and may provide that if the alleged violator corrects the
situation resulting in the alleged violation within the time specified in the
notice, that the payment of the administrative penalty will be waived.
      (5)   At any time before the payment of the administrative penalty is
due, the person who has been given notice of an alleged violation may request
to appear before the City Council to contest the request for payment of the
penalty. After a hearing before the Council, the Council may determine to
withdraw the request for payment or to renew the request for payment. Because
the payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary, there shall be no
appeal from the decision of the Council.
      (6)   At any time after the date the payment of the administrative
penalty is due, if the administrative penalty remains unpaid or the situation
creating the alleged violation remains uncorrected, the city, through its
Attorney, may bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this
code. Likewise, the city, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the
first instance, rather than requesting the payment of an administrative
penalty, even if a penalty for the particular violation has been established by
Council resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the city for the alleged violation.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of
this code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including state statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including state statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
      (3)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the
costs of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
      (4)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
      (5)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this division (B) or
in division (A) above, if any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with
any provision of this code, the Council or any city official designated by it
may institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct
or abate the violation.
   (C)   The city code does not authorize an act or omission otherwise
prohibited by law.
(Prior Code, § 1.04)
   (D)   All fines, forfeitures and penalties recovered for the violation of
any ordinance, charter, rule or regulation of the city shall be paid into the
City Treasury by the court or officer thereof receiving the monies. Payment
shall be made in the manner, at the time and in the proportion provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1.06)
   (E)   When a penalty or forfeiture is provided for the violation of a
chapter, section, division or provision of the city code, the penalty or
forfeiture shall be construed to be for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 1.09)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNMENT GENERALLY
      
31.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNMENT GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Authority and purpose
   
30.02   City seal
   
30.03   Right to administrative appeal
   
30.04   Procedural rules for appeals and other hearings
   
30.05   Facsimile signatures
   
30.06   Administrator
   
30.07   Interim emergency succession
   
30.08   Salaries
   
30.09   Worker’s compensation
City Council
   
30.20   Meetings; time and place
   
30.21   Special meetings
   
30.22   Procedure at regular meetings
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to authority granted by statute, this chapter of the city code is
enacted so as to set down for enforcement the government and good order of the
city by and through the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.01)
§ 30.02 CITY SEAL.
   All contracts to which the city is a party shall be sealed with the city
seal. The seal shall be kept in the custody of the City Administrator and
affixed by him or her. The official city seal shall be a circular disc having
engraved thereupon “CITY OF CLARA CITY” and other words, figures or emblems as
the Council may, by resolution, designate.
(Prior Code, § 2.05)
§ 30.03 RIGHT TO ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL.
   (A)   If any person shall be aggrieved by any administrative decision of the
City Administrator, any other elected or appointed city official or employee or
any board or commission not having within its structure an appellate procedure,
the aggrieved person is entitled to a full hearing before the Council upon
serving a written request therefor upon the Mayor and City Administrator at
least five days prior to any regular Council meeting. The request shall contain
a general statement setting forth the administrative decision to be challenged
by the appellant. At the hearing, the appellant may present any evidence he or
she deems pertinent to the appeal, but the city shall not be required to keep a
verbatim record of the proceedings.
   (B)   The Mayor, or other officer presiding at the hearing, may, in the
interest of justice or to comply with time requirements and on his or her own
motion or the motion of the appellant, the City Administrator, or a member of
the Council, adjourn the hearing to a more convenient time or place, but the
time or place shall be fixed and determined before adjournment so as to avoid
the necessity for formal notice of reconvening.
(Prior Code, § 2.06)
§ 30.04 PROCEDURAL RULES FOR APPEALS AND OTHER HEARINGS.
   The Council may adopt, by resolution, certain written rules of procedure to
be followed in all administrative appeals and other hearings to be held before
the Council or other bodies authorized to hold hearings and determine questions
therein presented. The rules of procedure shall be effective 30 days after
adoption and shall be for the purpose of establishing and maintaining order and
decorum in the proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 2.07)
§ 30.05 FACSIMILE SIGNATURES.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Administrator are hereby authorized to request a
depository of city funds to honor an order for payment, when the instrument
bears a facsimile of his or her signature, and to charge the same to the
account designated thereon or upon which it is drawn, as effectively as though
it were his or her manually written signature.
   (B)   The authority is granted only for the purpose of permitting the
officers an economy of time and effort.
(Prior Code, § 2.08)
§ 30.06 ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted by M.S. § 412.591, as may be amended
from time to time, the offices of the Clerk and Treasurer shall be, and hereby
are, combined in the office of the Administrator and, thereafter, the duties of
the Treasurer and Clerk shall be performed by the Administrator.
   (B)   In conformance with the laws of the state, there shall be an annual
audit of the city’s financial affairs by the State Auditor or a public
accountant in accordance with minimum procedures prescribed by the State
Auditor.
(Prior Code, § 2.09)
§ 30.07 INTERIM EMERGENCY SUCCESSION.
   (A)   Purpose. Due to the existing possibility of a nuclear attack or a
natural disaster requiring a declaration of a state of emergency, it is found
urgent and necessary to ensure the continuity of duly elected and lawful
leadership of the city to provide for the continuity of the government and the
emergency interim succession of key governmental officials by providing a
method for temporary emergency appointments to their offices.
   (B)   Succession to local offices. In the event of a nuclear attack upon the
United States or a natural disaster affecting the vicinity of the city, the
Mayor, Council and City Administrator shall be forthwith notified by any one of
the persons and by any means available to gather at the City Hall. In the event
that safety or convenience dictate, an alternative place of meeting may be
designated. Those gathered shall proceed as follows.
      (1)   By majority vote of those persons present, regardless of number,
they shall elect a Chairperson and Secretary to preside and keep minutes,
respectively.
      (2)   They shall review and record the specific facts relating to the
nuclear attack or natural disaster and injuries to persons or damage to
property already done, or the imminence thereof.
      (3)   They may, based on the facts, declare a state of emergency.
      (4)   By majority vote of those persons present, regardless of number,
they shall fill all positions on the Council, (including the Office of Mayor)
of those persons upon whom notice could not be served or who are unable to be
present.
      (5)   The interim successors shall serve until such time as the duly
elected official is again available and returns to his or her position, or the
state of emergency has passed and a successor is designated and qualifies as
required by law, whichever shall occur first.
   (C)   Duties of the Interim Emergency Council. The Interim Emergency Council
shall exercise the powers and duties of its office and appoint other key
government officials to serve during the emergency.
(Prior Code, § 2.10)
§ 30.08 SALARIES.
   (A)   The annual salary of the Mayor shall be in an amount set by City
Council.
   (B)   The annual salary of each Council member shall be in an amount set by
City Council.
   (C)   In addition to the annual salaries, the Mayor and each Council member
will be paid in an amount set by City Council for each Council meeting attended
in excess of the regular monthly Council meeting.
   (D)   The salaries provided herein shall be effective 1-1-2005.
(Prior Code, § 2.11) (Ord. 308, Second Series, passed 9-7-2004)
§ 30.09 WORKER’S COMPENSATION.
   The city shall not enter into any contract for doing public work before
receiving, from all other contracting parties, acceptable evidence of
compliance with the worker’s compensation insurance coverage requirement of
state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 2.12)
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.20 MEETINGS; TIME AND PLACE.
   Regular meetings of the Council shall be held in the Council Chambers on the
second Tuesday of each month at 6:30 p.m. Special and adjourned meetings shall
also be held in the Council Chambers. In the event that any regular meeting
falls on a holiday, then the meeting shall be held on the next business day at
the same time.
(Prior Code, § 2.02)
§ 30.21 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or by any two
other members of the Council by writing filed with the City Administrator,
stating the time, place and purpose of the meeting.
Notice of a special meeting shall be given by the City Administrator to each
member of the Council by mailing a copy of the filing to all members who did
not sign or issue the call at least three days prior to the time stated
therein, or by personal service at least 72 hours prior to the projected time
of meeting. Special meetings may be held without prior written notice to the
Council when all Council members are present at the meeting or consent thereto
in writing. Any consent shall be filed with the City Administrator prior to the
beginning of the meeting. Any special meeting attended by all Council members
shall be a valid meeting for the transaction of any business that may come
before the meeting. Meetings of the Council, which are adjourned from time to
time, shall not be subject to the foregoing notice requirements; nor shall
special meetings which, in the judgment of the Council, require immediate
consideration to meet an emergency require notice, but may be called by
telephone communication or any other expeditious means. Notice to the public
and to news media shall be given as required by statute.
(Prior Code, § 2.03)
§ 30.22 PROCEDURE AT REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall prepare the following items:
      (1)   An agenda for the forthcoming meeting;
      (2)   A report from the City Administrator on administrative activities
of the preceding month;
      (3)   A compiled list of all claimants who have filed verified accounts
claiming payment for goods or services rendered the city during the preceding
month, the list to be called the “claim report” and bearing headings
“claimant”, “purpose” and “amount”;
      (4)   A copy of all minutes to be considered; and
      (5)   Copies of other proposals, communications or other documents as the
City Administrator deems necessary or proper for advance consideration by the
Council. The City Administrator shall forthwith cause to be mailed or delivered
to each member of the Council copies of all documents. Roberts’ Rules of Order
(Newly Revised) shall govern all Council meetings as to procedural matters not
set forth in the charter or city code.
   (B)   The order of business at regular meetings shall be as follows:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Roll call;
      (3)   Determination of quorum;
      (4)   Approval of minutes; (Actual reading may be waived if each member
of the Council was furnished with a copy thereof as hereinbefore set forth.)
      (5)   Licenses and permits;
      (6)   Correspondence;
      (7)   Meeting opened in the order stated in the agenda to persons
requesting to appear before the Council. The presiding officer may advise any
person appearing as to the amount of time allowed prior to his or her speaking
or later limit the time. Persons speaking shall give their name, address and
state their business;
      (8)   Reports of staff members;
      (9)   Reports from boards and commissions;
      (10)   Reports of Council members;
      (11)   Report from Mayor;
      (12)   Meeting opened to the public. The presiding officer shall limit
the time allowed. Persons speaking shall give their name, address and state
their business;
      (13)   Old business;
      (14)   New business;
      (15)   Payment of claims and approval for payment of claims and
appropriations; and
      (16)   Adjournment.
   (C)   (1)   Matters inappropriate for consideration at a meeting, or not in
the order specified, shall not be considered, except:
         (a)   With the unanimous consent of the members of the Council; or
         (b)   Scheduled public hearings or bid lettings at the time stated in
the notice.
      (2)   All claims for payment must be filed at or before 12:00 noon on the
Friday preceding the regular Council meeting at which it is to be considered.
(Prior Code, § 2.04)
CHAPTER 31: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Departments
   
31.01   Generally
   
31.02   Police Department
   
31.03   Fire Department
   
31.04   Legal Department
   
31.05   Public Works Department
Boards, Commissions and the Like
   
31.20   Generally
   
31.21   Economic Development Authority
DEPARTMENTS
§ 31.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Control.
      (1)   All departments of the city are under the overall control of the
Council.
      (2)   Heads of all departments are responsible to the Council and subject
to its supervision and direction, except as otherwise provided herein.
   (B)   Appointment. All department heads and employees shall be appointed by
the Council. All appointments shall be for an indeterminate term and subject to
any applicable civil service regulations in effect in the city.
   (C)   Compensation. All wages and salaries shall be fixed and determined by
the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.20)
§ 31.02 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   A Police Department is hereby established. The head of this Department shall
be known as the Chief of Police and the number of additional members and
employees of the Police Department shall be determined by the Council which may
be changed from time to time. The Mayor shall have, without the approval of the
Council, authority to appoint additional members of the Police Department for
temporary duty when, in his or her judgment, an emergency exists for the
preservation of life or property. The Chief of Police and all members of the
Police Department shall have the powers and authority of police officers
generally and shall perform duties as are required of them by the Council or by
law. The Chief of Police shall have overall supervision and management of the
Police Department and custody of all property used and maintained for the
purposes of the Department. The Chief of Police shall make and file the reports
as may be required by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.21)
§ 31.03 FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   A Fire Department is hereby established. The size and composition
(including, but not limited to, a determination as to permanent and volunteer
members) shall be established by resolution of the Council, which may be
changed from time to time by a subsequent resolution. The Council shall also
establish, and from time to time revise and amend, written rules and
regulations of the Department including, but not limited to, its internal
structural organization and compensation, a copy of which shall be distributed
to each of its members whenever established, revised or amended. The Chief of
the Fire Department shall have general supervision of the Fire Department and
custody of all property used and maintained for the purposes of the Department.
He or she shall see that the same are kept in proper order and that all rules
and regulations and all provisions of the laws of the state and ordinances of
the city relative to a Fire Department and to prevention and extinguishment of
fires are duly observed. He or she shall supervise the preservation of all
property endangered by fire and shall control and direct all persons engaged in
preserving the property. In case of the absence or disability of the Chief for
any cause, the Assistant Chief shall exercise all powers, perform all the
duties and be subject to all the responsibilities of the Chief. The Chief of
the Fire Department shall make and file the reports as may be requested by the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.22)
§ 31.04 LEGAL DEPARTMENT.
   A Legal Department is hereby established. The Council shall appoint a City
Attorney, who shall be head of the Legal Department, together with the
assistants as may be necessary, who shall serve at the pleasure of the Council.
The City Attorney shall perform the duties as are required of him or her by law
or referred to him or her by the Council. It shall be the official duty of the
City Attorney to act as “Revisor of Ordinances”.
(Prior Code, § 2.23)
§ 31.05 PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT.
   A Public Works Department is hereby established. The head of the Department
shall be the Director of Public Works. The city water, sewerage systems,
streets, parks and refuse collection shall be under the direct supervision of
the Director and he or she shall be responsible for and have custody of all
property of the Department. The Director shall make and file reports as may be
requested by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.24)
BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND THE LIKE
§ 31.20 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by other provisions of the city code, all
board and commission appointments authorized by ordinance or resolution shall
be made by the Mayor or the Council, as the case may be, prior to the
expiration of an existing term. The term of each appointee shall be established
and stated at the time of his or her appointment and terms of present Board and
Commission members may be reestablished and changed so as to give effect to
this section. New appointees shall assume office on February 1, January 31
being the date of expiration of terms; provided, however, that, all appointees
to board and commissions shall hold office until their successor is appointed
and qualified. All vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as for an
expired term, but the appointment shall be only for the unexpired term. No
appointed board or commission member shall be an employee of the city, except
those who are members by virtue of their office. All appointed board and
commission members shall serve without remuneration, but may be reimbursed for
out-of-pocket expenses incurred in the performance of their duties when the
expenses have been authorized by the Council before they were incurred.
   (B)   The chairperson and the secretary shall be chosen from and by the
board or commission membership annually to serve for one year; provided,
however, that, no chairperson shall be elected who has not completed at least
one year as a member of the board or commission. Any board or commission member
may be removed by the Council for misfeasance, malfeasance or nonfeasance in
office and his or her position filled as any other vacancy. Each board and
commission shall hold its regular meeting at a time established and approved by
the Council.
   (C)   The City Administrator shall be an ex-officio member of all boards and
commissions; provided that, if he or she is unable to attend a meeting or act
in the capacity of the membership, he or she may be represented by his or her
assistant or some person duly authorized by him or her.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided, this section shall apply to all boards
and commissions.
(Prior Code, § 2.30)
§ 31.21 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Establishment and composition. An Economic Development Authority is
hereby established. The Authority shall be composed of seven members, two of
whom shall be members of the Council, who shall serve two-year terms.
   (B)   Powers and duties. It shall be the responsibility of the Economic
Development Authority to carry out economic and industrial development and
redevelopment within the city in accordance with general policies as may from
time to time be established by the Council and pursuant to by-laws as may be
adopted by the Authority with approval of the Council. The Authority shall have
powers as may be permitted by M.S. §§ 469.070 through 469.108, as may be
amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 2.31)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITIES
      
51.   WATER SERVICE
      
52.   SEWERAGE SERVICE
      
53.   REFUSE; RECYCLABLES
      
54.   STREET LIGHTING SYSTEM CHARGE
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL UTILITIES
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Fixing rates and charges for municipal utilities
   
50.03   Contractual contents
   
50.04   Disconnection for late payment
   
50.05   Application, connection and sale of service
   
50.06   Discontinuance of service
   
50.07   Ownership of municipal utilities
   
50.08   Right of entry
   
50.09   Meter test
   
50.10   Unlawful acts
   
50.11   Services and charges a lien
   
50.12   Service outside the city
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPANY, GRANTEE and FRANCHISEE. Any public utility system to which a
franchise has been granted by the city.
   CONSUMER and CUSTOMER. Any user of a utility.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY. Any city-owned utility system, including, but not by way
of limitation, water, sewerage and refuse service.
   SERVICE. Providing a particular utility to a customer or consumer.
   UTILITY. All utility services, whether the same be public city-owned
facilities or furnished by public utility companies.
(Prior Code, § 3.01)
§ 50.02 FIXING RATES AND CHARGES FOR MUNICIPAL UTILITIES.
   All rates and charges for municipal utilities, including, but not by way of
limitation, rates for service, permit fees, deposit, connection and meter
testing fees, disconnection fees, reconnection fees including penalties for
non-payment, if any, shall be fixed, determined and amended by the Council and
adopted by resolution. No resolution shall be adopted before a public hearing
has been held thereon. Notice of the public hearing shall be published once at
least ten days prior thereto. Notice of adoption of the resolution shall be
published at least 30 days prior to the effective date thereof. The resolution,
containing the effective date thereof, shall be kept on file and open to
inspection in the office of the City Administrator and shall be uniformly
enforced. For the purpose of fixing the rates and charges, the Council may
categorize and classify under the various types of service; provided that, the
categorization and classification shall be included in the resolution
authorized by this title.
(Prior Code, § 3.02)
§ 50.03 CONTRACTUAL CONTENTS.
   Provisions of this title relating to municipal utilities shall constitute
portions of the contract between the city and all consumers of municipal
utility services and every consumer shall be deemed to assent to the same.
(Prior Code, § 3.03)
§ 50.04 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall have
a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person and
by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present orally or
in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city official in charge
of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the
customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a
final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing
procedure provided herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified,
but in no event until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30
days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $20.
§ 50.05 APPLICATION, CONNECTION AND SALE OF SERVICE.
   Application for municipal utility services shall be made upon forms supplied
by the city and strictly in accordance therewith. No connection shall be made
until consent has been received from the city to make the same. All municipal
utilities shall be sold and delivered to consumers under the then applicable
rate applied to the amount of the utilities taken as metered or ascertained in
connection with the rates.
(Prior Code, § 3.04)
§ 50.06 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   All municipal utilities may be shut off or discontinued whenever it is found
that:
   (A)   The owner or occupant of the premises served, or any person working on
any connection with the municipal utility systems, has violated any requirement
of the city code relative thereto, or any connection therewith;
   (B)   Any charge for a municipal utility service, or any other financial
obligation imposed on the present owner or occupant of the premises served, is
unpaid after due notice thereof in accordance with the policy and procedure set
out in §
50.04; or
   (C)   There is fraud or misrepresentation by the owner or occupant in
connection with any application for service or delivery or charges therefor.
(Prior Code, § 3.04)
§ 50.07 OWNERSHIP OF MUNICIPAL UTILITIES.
   Ownership of all municipal utilities, plants, lines, mains, extensions and
appurtenances thereto shall be and remain in the city and no person shall own
any part or portion thereof; provided, however, that, private facilities and
appurtenances constructed on private property are not intended to be included
in municipal ownership.
(Prior Code, § 3.04)
§ 50.08 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   By applying for, or receiving, a municipal utility service, a customer
irrevocably consents and agrees that any city employee acting within the course
and scope of his or her employment may enter into and upon the private property
of the customer, including dwellings and other buildings, at all reasonable
times under the circumstances, in or upon which private property a municipal
utility, or connection therewith, is installed, for the purpose of inspecting,
repairing, reading meters, connecting or disconnecting the municipal utility
service.
(Prior Code, § 3.04)
§ 50.09 METER TEST.
   (A)   Whenever a consumer shall request the city to test any utility meter
in use by him or her, a request shall be accompanied by a cash deposit for each
meter to be tested.
   (B)   If any meter is found to be inaccurate, the same shall be replaced
with an accurate meter and the deposit thereon refunded. If the meter shall be
found to be accurate in its recordings or calculations, it shall be reinstalled
and the deposit shall be retained by the city to defray the cost of the test.
As to remote-type readers and, if there is a disparity between the meter
reading and the remote reading, the meter reading shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 3.04)
§ 50.10 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, mar, deface, disturb or, in any way, interfere with any buildings,
attachments, machinery, apparatus, equipment, fixture or appurtenance of any
municipal utility or municipal utility system, or commit any act tending to
obstruct or impair the use of any municipal utility.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to make any connection with, opening
into, use or alter, in any way, any municipal utility system without first
having applied for and received written permission to do so from the city.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to turn on or connect a utility when the
same has been turned off or disconnected by the city for non-payment of a bill,
or for any other reason, without first having obtained a permit to do so from
the city.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to “jumper” or, by any means or device,
fully or partially circumvent a municipal utility meter, or to knowingly use or
consume unmetered utilities or use the services of any utility system, the use
of which the proper billing authorities have no knowledge.
(Prior Code, § 3.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.11 SERVICES AND CHARGES A LIEN.
   (A)   Payment for all municipal utility (as that term is defined in §
50.01) service and charges shall be by account to the primary responsibility of
the fee owner of the premises served and shall be billed the owner. The city
may collect the same in a civil action or, in the alternative and at the option
of the city, as otherwise provided in this section.
   (B)   Each account is hereby made a lien upon the premises served. All
accounts which are more than 45 days delinquent may, when authorized by
resolution of the Council, be certified by the City Administrator to the county
Auditor and the City Administrator, in so certifying shall specify the amount
thereof, the description of the premises served and the name of the owner
thereof. The amount so certified shall be extended by the Auditor on the tax
rolls against the premises in the same manner as other taxes, and collected by
the County Treasurer, and paid to the city along with other taxes.
(Prior Code, § 3.04) (Ord. passed 6-13-2022)
§ 50.12 SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY.
   The City Administrator is hereby authorized to furnish municipal utility
service to consumers outside the city; provided that, the consumers
specifically agree to all of the terms of the city code, including, but not
limited to, rules, regulations and rates adopted thereunder and the right to
specially assess delinquent services, charges and penalties.
(Prior Code, § 3.04)
CHAPTER 51: WATER SERVICE
Section
   
51.01   Deficiency of water and shutting off water
   
51.02   Repair of leaks
   
51.03   Increasing size of water service
   
51.04   Service pipes
   
51.05   Private water supplies
   
51.06   Prohibited uses or restricted hours
   
51.07   Private fire hose connections
   
51.08   Opening hydrants
   
51.09   Unmetered service
   
51.10   Water meters
   
51.11   Code requirement
§ 51.01 DEFICIENCY OF WATER AND SHUTTING OFF WATER.
   The city is not liable for any deficiency or failure in the supply of water
to customers, whether occasioned by shutting the water off for the purpose of
making repairs or connections or by any other cause whatever. In case of fire,
or alarm of fire, water may be shut off to ensure a supply for fire fighting.
In making repairs or construction of new works, water may be shut off at any
time and kept off so long as may be necessary.
(Prior Code, § 3.10)
§ 51.02 REPAIR OF LEAKS.
   It is the responsibility of the consumer or owner to maintain the water
service from the curb stop into the house or other building. In case of failure
upon the part of any consumer or owner to repair any leak occurring in his or
her water service within 24 hours after oral or written notice has been given
to the owner or occupant of the premises, the water may be shut off and will
not be turned on until a reconnection charge has been paid and the water
service has been repaired. When the waste of water is great or when damage is
likely to result from the leak, the water will be turned off if the repair is
not proceeded with immediately.
(Prior Code, § 3.10)
§ 51.03 INCREASING SIZE OF WATER SERVICE.
   When it is desired to increase the size of water service from the main, a
new permit shall be taken out and the regular tapping charge shall be made as
if this were a new service.
(Prior Code, § 3.10)
§ 51.04 SERVICE PIPES.
   Every service pipe must be laid in a manner as to prevent rupture by
settlement. The service pipe shall be placed not less than seven feet below the
surface in all cases so arranged as to prevent rupture and stoppage by
freezing. Frozen service pipes between the curb stop and the building shall be
the responsibility of the owner. Service pipes must extend from the curb stops
to the inside of the building; or, if not taken into a building, then to the
hydrant or other fixtures which they are intended to supply. A valve, the same
size as the service pipe, shall be placed close to the inside wall of the
building, ahead of the meter and well protected from freezing. Joints on copper
tubing shall be flared or compression-fitted and kept to a minimum. Not more
than one joint shall be used for a service up to 70 feet in length. All joints
shall be left uncovered until inspected. Minimum size connection with the water
mains shall be three-fourths inch in diameter.
(Prior Code, § 3.10)
§ 51.05 PRIVATE WATER SUPPLIES.
   No water pipe of the city water system shall be connected with any pump,
well, pipe, tank or any device that is connected with any other source of water
supply and when such are found, the city shall notify the owner or occupant to
disconnect the same and, if not immediately done, the city water shall be
turned off. Before any new connections to the city system are permitted, the
city shall ascertain that no cross-connections will exist when the new
connection is made. When a building is connected to city water, the private
water supply may be used only for such purposes as the city may allow.
(Prior Code, § 3.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.06 PROHIBITED USES OR RESTRICTED HOURS.
   Whenever the city shall determine that a shortage of water threatens the
city, it may entirely prohibit water use or limit the times and hours during
which water may be used from the city water system for lawn and garden
sprinkling, irrigation, car washing, air conditioning and other uses, or either
or any of them. It is unlawful for any water consumer to cause or permit water
to be used in violation of the determination after public announcement thereof
has been made through the news media specifically indicating the restrictions
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 3.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.07 PRIVATE FIRE HOSE CONNECTIONS.
   Owners of structures with self-contained fire protection systems may apply
for and obtain permission to connect the street mains with hydrants, large
pipes and hose couplings, for use in case of fire only, at their own
installation expense and at rates as the Council may adopt by resolution as
herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 3.10)
§ 51.08 OPENING HYDRANTS.
   It is unlawful for any person, other than members of the Fire Department or
other person duly authorized by the city, in pursuance of lawful purpose, to
open any fire hydrant or attempt to draw water from the same or in any manner
interfere therewith. It is also unlawful for any person so authorized to
deliver or suffer to be delivered to any other person any hydrant key or
wrench, except for the purposes strictly pertaining to their lawful use.
(Prior Code, § 3.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.09 UNMETERED SERVICE.
   (A)   Unmetered service may be provided for construction, flooding skating
rinks and any other purpose. The service shall be at a duly adopted rate. Where
it is difficult or impossible to accurately measure the amount of water taken,
unmetered service may be provided and the unmetered rate applied; provided,
however, that, by acceptance thereof the consumer agrees to have the city
estimate the water used.
   (B)   In so estimating, the city shall consider the use to which the water
is put and the length of time of unmetered service.
(Prior Code, § 3.10)
§ 51.10 WATER METERS.
   (A)   All water meters shall be purchased by the property owner and
maintained by the city. All repairs of water meters not resulting from normal
usage shall be the responsibility of the property owner. Any other meter in
need of replacement shall be replaced with a remote type which shall be
furnished and maintained by the city.
   (B)   All water meters shall be installed and controlled by the city and the
cost of installation shall be the responsibility of the property owner. Any
remote type meter in need of replacement, by reason of normal usage, shall be
furnished and installed by the city; thereafter, the city shall own the meter.
(Prior Code, § 3.10)
§ 51.11 CODE REQUIREMENT.
   All piping, connections and appurtenances shall be installed and performed
strictly in accordance with the State Plumbing Code. Failure to install or
maintain the same in accordance therewith, or failure to have or permit
required inspections shall, upon discovery by the city, be an additional ground
for termination of water service to any consumer.
(Prior Code, § 3.10)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERAGE SERVICE
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Metered water not discharged
   
52.03   Classification of industrial wastes
   
52.04   Deleterious substances
   
52.05   Unlawful discharge
   
52.06   Unmetered water supply
   
52.07   Size, kind and depth of pipe
   
52.08   Toilet installation required
   
52.09   Sump pump drain regulations and unlawful acts
   
52.10   Responsibility
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any liquid, gaseous or solid waste substance resulting
from any process of industry, manufacturing, trade or business, or from
development of any natural resources.
   SEWAGE. Water-carried waste products from residences, public buildings,
institutions or other buildings or premises, including the excrement or other
discharge from the bodies of human beings or animals, together with the ground
water infiltration and surface water as may be present.
   SEWERAGE SERVICE. The use of and benefit from the sewerage system, including
the collection, transportation, pumping, treatment and final disposal of
sewage.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM. All street lateral, main and intersecting sewers and
structures by which sewage or industrial wastes are collected, transported,
treated and disposed of; provided that, this shall not include plumbing inside
or a part of a building or premises served, or service sewers from a building
to the street lateral.
(Prior Code, § 3.20)
§ 52.02 METERED WATER NOT DISCHARGED.
   If a portion of the water furnished to any premises is not directly or
indirectly discharged into the sewerage system, the quantity of the water shall
be deducted in computing the sewerage service charge or rental; provided, a
separate meter shall be installed and operated to register the quantity so not
discharged into the sewerage system; provided, also, that, where it is not
practicable to meter the portion of the water not discharged into the sewerage
system, the adjustment may be made as shall be fair and equitable in order to
determine the amount of the service charge or rental; but until the adjustment
shall be effected that water consumption basis hereinbefore prescribed shall
remain in full force and effect.
(Prior Code, § 3.20)
§ 52.03 CLASSIFICATION OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   The city shall have the power to classify the industrial wastes from any
lot, parcel of land, building or premises discharged therefrom into the
sewerage system of the city, taking into consideration the quantity of sewage
produced and its concentration, strength of pollution qualities in general and
of any other factors entering into the cost of its disposal, for the purpose of
fixing and prescribing a distinct rate of rental or use charge. Should it be
found that, as to the sewer uses, the water basis consumption does not provide
a practicable method in the premises, but until so determined and the distinct
rate fixed, the water consumption basis hereinbefore prescribed shall remain in
full force and effect as to the commercial or industrial users. The city may
require and prescribe pretreatment on the consumer’s premises.
(Prior Code, § 3.20)
§ 52.04 DELETERIOUS SUBSTANCES.
   No sewage, including industrial wastes, shall contain any substance which is
deemed deleterious by the city to the operation of the sewerage system or to
any plant or facilities used in the treatment or disposal of the sewage. If a
user of the sewerage system discharges excessive loads or any deleterious
substances therein which are likely to retard or injuriously affect sewerage
operations, he or she shall discontinue the practice and the practice is hereby
declared to be a violation of this chapter. Each day of the violation
continuing after having been notified in writing by the city to discontinue the
practice shall be deemed a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 3.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.05 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE.
   It is unlawful to discharge any of the following described wastes into the
sewerage system:
   (A)   Liquids having a temperature higher than 150°F;
   (B)   Water or waste which contains more than 100 ppm by weight of fat, oil
or grease;
   (C)   Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other inflammable or explosive
liquid, solid or gas;
   (D)   Garbage, except such as has been properly shredded;
   (E)   Ashes, cinders, shavings, feathers, tar or other liquid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewerage system or
other interference with the proper operation of the system;
   (F)   Noxious or malodorous substances capable of creating a public
nuisance; and
   (G)   Roof water, ground water or any other natural precipitation.
(Prior Code, § 3.20)
§ 52.06 UNMETERED WATER SUPPLY.
   If any premises discharge normal sewage or industrial waste into the
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, obtain part or all of
the water used thereon from sources other than the city, and the water so
obtained is not measured by a meter of equivalent specifications to the meters
used by the city, then, in such case, the city shall permit the discharge of
normal sewage or industrial waste into its sanitary sewerage system only when
the owner of the premises or some other interested party shall, at his or her
own expense, install and maintain for the purpose of metering the water supply
a water meter of equivalent specifications to those installed by the city in
connection with the city water system. Each water meter shall be installed to
measure all water received on the premises and the above charges and rates
shall be applied to the quantity of water received as measured by the meter.
If, because of the nature of the source of the water supply, the city deems it
impracticable to thus meter the water on any premises, the Council may, by
resolution, establish a flat charge per month in accordance with the estimated
use of water on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 3.20)
§ 52.07 SIZE, KIND AND DEPTH OF PIPE.
   The city may prescribe the size, kind and depth of sewerage service pipe and
connections. The minimum size, when placed underground, shall be four inches in
diameter.
(Prior Code, § 3.20)
§ 52.08 TOILET INSTALLATION REQUIRED.
   It is the duty of every owner or occupant of any property within the city,
having a dwelling house or business building situated thereon, which property
is abutting a street in which there are city water
and sewer mains, to install a toilet in a dwelling or business building and
make connection thereof with the water and sewer mains. The city shall serve
written notice upon the owner or occupant requiring the installation of toilet
facilities upon premises described in the notice, and connection thereof with
the sewer and water mains, all of which shall be done within 30 days after
service of the written notice. Whenever any owner or occupant shall default in
compliance with the written notice, the Council may, by resolution, direct that
a toilet be installed and connection made with the water and sewer mains and
that the actual cost of the installation be paid in the first instance out of
the General Revenue Fund, and assessed against the property so benefitted.
After the installation and connection is completed by order of the Council, the
city shall serve a written notice of intention to make an assessment therefor.
If the assessment is not paid within ten days, the city shall certify the
amount thereof to the County Auditor in the same manner as with other special
assessments; provided that, the Council may, by resolution, provide that the
assessment be spread over a term of five years upon written request by the
owner of the property.
(Prior Code, § 3.21)
§ 52.09 SUMP PUMP DRAIN REGULATIONS AND UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The Council finds that the city sanitary sewerage collection
and treatment facilities are unable to receive and dispose of the present
volume of unpolluted water including, but not limited to, cooling water, ground
water and natural precipitation now being intentionally pumped or directed into
the facilities; that, if allowed to continue, a potential danger to the health
of persons and the safety of property exists in the collection of the waters
thereby causing raw sewage to back up into basements and onto property of
customers; that, if allowed to continue, the potential danger exists of
exceeding the capacity of the treatment facilities thereby impairing the proper
operation thereof and complete treatment of other sewage; and, that the
restricted and regulated installation, use and operation of sump pumps is
therefore necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare of customers and
residents.
   (B)   Sump pump drainage. All premises and dwellings upon which sump pumps
are, presently or in the future, installed or in use shall have a permanently
installed discharge line leading from the sump pump to the outside of the
premises or dwelling to a point not more than half the distance to the property
line. The type, size and placement of materials used, and the manner of
construction of the drain from the discharge on the pump to the discharge end
of the drain, shall meet the standards of the State Plumbing Code. All
underground drain construction hereafter performed shall be inspected by the
city before it is covered.
   (C)   By-pass construction and use. If, in the opinion of the Public Works
Director, it is either impossible or impractical to install a year-round frost-
free sump pump drain on certain premises within the established written
standards, the Public Works Director may direct the issuance of a written
permit (by-pass permit) to install a by-pass for temporarily pumping into the
sanitary sewerage system during any time or times as the permanent drain is
frozen or in danger of freezing. The time of by-pass use (by-pass time) shall
be fixed and determined by the Public Works Director and notice to permit
holders of the beginning and ending of the time shall be given through local
news media or by mailed notice to
each owner or occupant of premises upon which a written permit has been issued.
The construction and use of a by-pass described in this division (C) shall, at
no time, be considered a substitute for the construction and use of the
permanent drain requirement of division (B) above.
   (D)   Unlawful acts. On and after the effective date of this section, it is
unlawful for any customer or other person:
      (1)   To fail or refuse to have permanently installed on premises owned
by him or her a sump pump drain constructed in accordance with written
standards prescribed by the city;
      (2)   To pump or direct the waters into the sanitary sewerage system,
except by-pass permit holders so pumping during a by-pass time; and/or
      (3)   To hinder, delay or deny a representative of the city access at any
and all reasonable times to premises served by the city sanitary sewerage
system for the purpose of inspection to determine compliance with this section.
   (E)   Additional remedy. In any case where access for inspection of premises
by a representative of the city to verify compliance with this section is
denied, or in any case of failure or refusal to comply with any other provision
of this section, the city may discontinue water service to the premises.
(Prior Code, § 3.22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.10 RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The city is responsible for all street lateral, main and intersecting
sewers and structures by which sewage or industrial wastes are collected,
transported, treated and disposed of.
   (B)   Homeowners are responsible for the plumbing inside or a part of a
building or premises served, or service sewers from their home to the city
main.
(Ord. 327, passed 6-8-2010)
CHAPTER 53: REFUSE; RECYCLABLES
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Collection and disposal of refuse
   
53.03   Collection and disposal of recyclable materials
   
53.04   Kind and placement of containers
   
53.05   Transportation of refuse
   
53.06   Unpaid charges for garbage collection and disposal services
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RECYCLABLES. Items of newspaper, glass, cans and plastic.
   RECYCLING. Any process by which materials which would otherwise become solid
waste are collected, separated or processed and returned to the economic
mainstream in the form of raw materials or products.
   REFUSE. Putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes including garbage,
rubbish, ashes, incinerator ash, incinerator residue, street cleanings and
market and industrial solid wastes, and not including municipal treatment
wastes which do not contain free moisture. It also includes combustible and
non-combustible wastes such as paper, cardboard, cans, yard waste, wood, glass,
bedding, crockery or litter of any kind.
   REFUSE/RECYCLING SERVICE AREA. The area in which the city shall provide for
the collection and disposal of refuse, recyclables and yard waste.
(Prior Code, § 3.30)
§ 53.02 COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF REFUSE.
   The city shall provide for the collection and disposal of all refuse in a
sanitary manner to ensure the health, safety and general welfare of its
residents, under the terms and conditions as the city may, from time to time,
deem appropriate. The collection shall be made only in the areas defined by the
city as the refuse/recycling service area and in accordance with the schedule,
as established by the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.30)
§ 53.03 COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
   The city shall provide for the collection and disposal of recyclables in a
sanitary manner to ensure the health, safety and general welfare of its
residents, under such terms and conditions as the city may, from time to time,
deem appropriate. The collection shall be made only in the areas of the city
and in accordance with a schedule, as established by the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.30)
§ 53.04 KIND AND PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Residential units. The refuse receptacles shall be made of plastic and
not exceed 45-gallon capacity. They shall be water-tight and fitted with
handles and a substantially tight-fitting cover to prevent disturbance of
contents thereof by cats, dogs and other animals, and to prevent the
propagation of, and infestation by, rats, flies and the like. The city may have
recycling receptacles available for purchase by the residents, and the
receptacles shall be constructed of weather-proof, insect- and rodent-proof
material such as plastic.
   (B)   Commercial and industrial establishments. The owner, manager,
proprietor, agent or occupant of any residential unit larger than a four-plex,
store, hotel, restaurant, saloon or industrial building within the city shall
be responsible for providing water-tight receptacles for the reception of
garbage and refuse. These containers shall be water-tight and fitted with
substantially tight fitting covers to prevent the disturbance of contents, and
to prevent the propagation of, and infestation by, rats, flies and the like.
   (C)   Placement of containers. Containers shall be placed at the designated
collection point on days specified by the city. Collection points will
generally be the curb line in front of the property, or at other designated
point agreed upon between the resident and the contract hauler. Receptacles
shall be placed at the collection point by the time specified by the hauler on
the designated day of collection, and shall be removed by the end of the
designated day of collection and not otherwise stored in areas of the front
yard visible from the front curb line.
(Prior Code, § 3.30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.05 TRANSPORTATION OF REFUSE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to transport refuse over any street, for
hire, except by special permit from the Council, or acting within the course
and scope of a written contract with the city, or his or her employment with
the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to transport refuse on any street unless
it is carried in a vehicle equipped with a leak-proof body or container and
completely covered with a heavy canvas or top to prevent loss of contents.
(Prior Code, § 3.30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.06 UNPAID CHARGES FOR GARBAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SERVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Duty to pay. The City Council provides for the regular
collection and disposal of garbage from residential dwellings and places of
business in the city. The owners of all property receiving such service must
pay the proportionate cost of such service to their properties.
      (2)   Pursuant to M.S. § 443.015, the City Council of any statutory city
or fourth-class city that provides by contract or otherwise for the regular
collection and disposal of garbage or refuse from dwellings and places of
business is authorized to adopt an ordinance that obligates the owners of all
property served to pay the proportionate cost of such service to their
respective properties.
   (B)   Default of payment. If a property owner fails to pay such service
charges, the City Council may annually impose an assessment equal to the unpaid
charges as of September 1 of each year against each affected lot or parcel of
land.
   (C)   Penalty and interest. Each assessment will also include a penalty of
10% and shall bear interest at 5% per year.
   (D)   Certification of assessments. Assessments may be annually certified to
the County Auditor.
   (E)   Notice and hearing. Unpaid charges shall not be certified as
assessments to the County Auditor until notice and an opportunity for a hearing
are provided to each owner of property subject to an assessment. The notice
shall be sent by first class mail and shall state that if payment is not made
before the date for certification, the entire amount unpaid plus any penalty
and interest owing will be certified to the County Auditor. The notice shall
also state that the occupant may, before the certification date, attend or
schedule a hearing on the matter to object to the certification.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2022)
CHAPTER 54: STREET LIGHTING SYSTEM CHARGE
Section
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Imposition of charge
   
54.03   Amount of charge
   
54.04   Billing
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the
following meanings:
   NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. All property except residential property and
property without a water meter.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. All one- and two-family dwellings, all manufactured
homes and all apartments or units in multi-family dwellings except nursing
homes, hospitals, and assisted living facilities.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-13-2011)
§ 54.02 IMPOSITION OF CHARGE.
   The cost of operating the street lighting system shall be charged to all
property owners benefitted by street lighting. The owner and occupant of
property on which, or adjacent to, there is a street lighting system shall be
personally liable for such benefit determined as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-13-2011)
§ 54.03 AMOUNT OF CHARGE.
   The property owner or occupant shall be charged for the current benefit to
the property. This benefit will be based on the prior year's utility bill for
street lighting to the city. The City Council shall annually, by resolution,
set the amount of the charge to residential and nonresidential properties.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-13-2011)
§ 54.04 BILLING.
   The city shall monthly prepare a bill based upon the rates established for
each property class by the City Council as defined by this section. For
nonresidential property, a separate charge shall be made for each water meter.
Such charges shall be added to the water and sewer billing for each property as
determined by the Council. The amount billed will thereupon become due and
payable in accordance with water and sewer billing policy; provided that the
amount due for the entire month shall be due on the first of the month
regardless of actual ownership or occupancy for the remainder of the month. In
the event of nonpayment of such bill, the City Clerk shall be authorized to
certify the unpaid portion to the County Auditor, to be added to the tax rolls
for the property.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-13-2011)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   PARKING RULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Highway Traffic Regulation Act adopted by reference
   
70.02   Driver’s license; unlawful acts
§ 70.01 HIGHWAY TRAFFIC REGULATION ACT ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Except as otherwise provided in this title, or elsewhere in the code, M.S.
Chapter 169, (commonly referred to as the Highway Traffic Regulation Act), as
may be amended from time to time, is hereby incorporated herein and adopted by
reference, including the penalty provisions thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8.01)
§ 70.02 DRIVER’S LICENSE; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It is unlawful for any person:
   (A)   To display, or cause or permit to be displayed, or have in his or her
possession, any canceled, revoked, suspended, fictitious or fraudulently
altered driver’s license;
   (B)   To lend his or her driver’s license to any other person or knowingly
permit the use thereof by another;
   (C)   To display or represent as one’s own any driver’s license not issued
to him or her;
   (D)   To fail or refuse to surrender to the Department of Highways of the
state, upon its lawful demand, any driver’s 1icense which has been suspended,
revoked or canceled; or
   (E)   To use a false or fictitious name or date of birth to any police
officer or in any application for a driver’s license, or to knowingly make a
false statement, or to knowingly conceal a material fact, or otherwise commit a
fraud in any application.
(Prior Code, § 8.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Truck routes
   
71.02   U-turns
   
71.03   Exhibition driving
   
71.04   Driving through private property to avoid traffic signal
   
71.05   Emergency vehicles
Golf Carts and All-Terrain Vehicles (ATVs)
   
71.20   Definitions
   
71.21   Operation authorized
   
71.22    Permits/permit issuance
   
71.23   Revocation or denial of permit
   
71.24   Penalty for operating without permit
   
71.25   Limitation without liability
   
71.26   Traffic laws and rules control operation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 TRUCK ROUTES.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive a tractor, agricultural implement,
truck over 9,000 pounds gross vehicle weight, truck-trailer, tractor-trailer or
truck tractor in through traffic, upon any street except those which have been
designated and sign-posted as truck routes. For the purpose of this section,
THROUGH TRAFFIC means originating without the city and with a destination
without the city, as distinguished from LOCAL TRAFFIC, which means traffic
either originating or having a destination within the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02 U-TURNS.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle by turning so as to
proceed in the opposite direction upon any street except at a street
intersection, and then only if the street intersection is not
sign-posted prohibiting a U-turn or otherwise controlled by a traffic signal;
provided that, any person making a permitted U-turn shall yield the right-of-
way to all other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 8.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   (A)   Prima facie evidence. It is prima facie evidence of exhibition driving
when a motor vehicle stops, starts, accelerates, decelerates or turns at an
unnecessary rate of speed so as to cause tires to squeal, gears to grind, soil
to be thrown, engine backfire, fishtailing or skidding, or, as to two-wheeled
or three-wheeled motor vehicles, the front wheel to lose contact with the
ground or roadway surface.
   (B)   Unlawful act.
      (1)   It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any exhibition driving on
any street, parking lot or other public or private property, except when an
emergency creates necessity for the operation to prevent injury to persons or
damage to property; provided that, this section shall not apply to driving on a
racetrack.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, a RACETRACK means any track or
premises whereon motorized vehicles, horses, dogs or other animals or fowl
legally compete in a race or timed contest for an audience, the members of
which have directly or indirectly paid a consideration for admission.
(Prior Code, § 8.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04 DRIVING THROUGH PRIVATE PROPERTY TO AVOID TRAFFIC SIGNAL.
   It is unlawful for any person to avoid obedience to any traffic-control
device by driving upon or through any private property.
(Prior Code, § 8.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to vehicles when
operated with due regard for safety, under the direction of police officers in
the chase or apprehension of violators of the law or of persons charged with or
suspected of any violation, nor to Fire Department or fire patrol vehicles when
traveling in response to a fire alarm, nor to public ambulances when traveling
in emergencies.
   (B)   This exemption shall not, however, protect the driver of any vehicle
from the consequences of a reckless disregard of the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 8.07)
GOLF CARTS AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES (ATVs)
§ 71.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES (ATVs). Motorized flotation-tired vehicles with at
least three, but no more than six, low pressure tires that have an engine
displacement of less than 1,100 cubic centimeters and include Class 1 and Class
2 ATVs.
   CLASS 1 ATV. As defined by Minnesota Statutes.
   CLASS 2 ATV. As defined by Minnesota Statutes.
   DRIVER. The person driving and having physical control over the motorized
golf cart or all-terrain vehicle and being the licensee.
   LEGAL CROSSING. The following are valid exceptions to the prohibited use of
roadways as defined immediately above, including:
      (1)   Motorized golf carts or all-terrain vehicles are permitted to
operate only on city streets and not on state or federal highways, except to
cross at designated intersections. In crossing any street or highway:
         (a)   The crossing is to be made at an angle of approximately 90
degrees to the direction of the street or highway and at a place where no
obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing;
         (b)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way of the street or highway;
         (c)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic
that constitutes an immediate hazard;
         (d)   In crossing a divided street or highway, the crossing is made
only at an intersection of such street or highway with another public street or
highway.
      (2)   The operator is allowed to travel on Chippewa County Road 2 to
obtain travel across the Burlington Northern Railway.
   MOTORIZED GOLF CART. Any passenger conveyance being driven with four wheels
with low-pressure tires that is limited in engine displacement of less than 800
cubic centimeters and total dry weight less than 800 pounds.
   PROHIBITED ROADWAYS. The following roadways shall be generally considered as
prohibited public right-of-way for the use of motorized golf-carts and/or ATVs,
such including:
      (1)   Chippewa County Road #2;
      (2)   State Highway #23;
      (3)   State Highway #7.
(Ord. 71, passed 3-12-2019)
§ 71.21 OPERATION AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Every person operating a motorized golf cart or all-terrain vehicle
must be at least 16 years of age and hold a valid driver's license or present a
certificate signed by a physician stating the applicant is capable of safely
operating a motorized golf cart or all-terrain vehicle on the roadway of
streets.
   (B)   Motorized golf carts and all-terrain vehicles may only be operated on
designated roadways from sunrise to sunset. They shall not be operated in
inclement weather conditions or at any time when there is insufficient light to
clearly see persons and vehicles on the roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
   (C)   Motorized golf carts shall display the slow-moving vehicle emblem
provided for in M.S. § 169.045, as it may be amended from time to time, when
operated on designated roadways.
   (D)   Motorized golf carts and all-terrain vehicles shall be equipped with a
rearview mirror to provide the driver with adequate vision from behind as
required by M.S. § 169.70.
   (E)   Every person operating a motorized golf cart or all-terrain vehicle
under permit on designated roadways has all the rights and duties applicable to
the driver of any other vehicle under the provisions of M.S. Ch. 169, as it may
be amended from time to time, except when these provisions cannot reasonably be
applied to motorized golf carts and all-terrain vehicles except as otherwise
specifically provided in M.S. §§ 169.045(7), as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (F)   Authorized city staff and law enforcement may operate city owned
motorized golf carts and all-terrain vehicles without obtaining a permit within
the city on city streets, sidewalks, trails, right-of-way, and public property
when conducting city business.
(Ord. 71, passed 3-12-2019)
§ 71.22 PERMITS/PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized golf cart, all-terrain vehicle on
streets, alleys, sidewalks or other public property within the city without
applying and obtaining a permit as provided herein or have current Minnesota
State license of the vehicles.
   (B)   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form available by
the Clerk's office and shall contain all of the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and phone number of the applicant/owner of the
motorized golf cart or all-terrain vehicle.
      (2)   The make, model, year and registration or serial number of the golf
cart or all-terrain vehicle.
      (3)   The nature of the applicant's physical handicap if applicable.
Provide physician’s certification.
      (4)   Copy of current driver's license of applicant.
      (5)   Copy of current insurance covering the motorized golf cart or all-
terrain vehicle.
      (6)   Any other information the city may require.
   (C)   The annual permit fee shall be as set forth in the resolution
establishing fees and charges adopted pursuant to this code, as the resolution
may be amended by the City Council from time to time.
   (D)   Permits shall be granted by the City Clerk for a period of one year
due each year on May 1 good through April 30 of the current year.
   (E)   Golf carts and all-terrain vehicles must not be operated:
      (1)   On private property of another without specific permission of the
owner or person in control of property.
      (2)   While under the influence of alcohol or drugs as defined in M.S. §
169A.20 as it may be amended from time to time. In addition, open containers of
alcohol are not allowed on the vehicle while in operation.
      (3)   In a careless, reckless, or negligent manner or heedlessly in
disregard of the rights of safety of others, or in a manner so as to endanger
or be likely to endanger or cause injury or damage to any person or property.
      (4)   With the number of occupants on the golf cart or all-terrain
vehicle that may exceed the design occupant load of the vehicle.
(Ord. 71, passed 3-12-2019)
§ 71.23 REVOCATION OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The City Council and/or the authorized law enforcement, under their
discretion, may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon a finding
that the holder thereof has violated any of the provisions of this section or
M.S. Ch. 169, as it may be amended from time to time, or if there is evidence
that the permit holder cannot safely operate the motorized golf cart or all-
terrain vehicle on the designated roadways.
   (B)   If the city intends to revoke a permit issued under this subchapter,
the city shall provide the permit holder written notice of the intention to
revoke along with the reason for such revocation. The notice shall give a time
and date the permit holder can appear before the City Council to contest the
revocation. After such hearing, the City Council shall determine whether to
revoke the permit and provide the permit holder written notice of that
decision.
(Ord. 71, passed 3-12-2019)
§ 71.24 PENALTY FOR OPERATING WITHOUT PERMIT.
   Any person who operates a golf cart or all-terrain vehicle without having
obtained a permit from the city is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 71, passed 3-12-2019)
§ 71.25 LIMITATION WITHOUT LIABILITY.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as an assumption of liability
by the city of injuries to persons or property which may result from the
operation of a golf cart or all-terrain vehicle by a permit holder or the
failure of the city to revoke said permit.
(Ord. 71, passed 3-12-2019)
§ 71.26 TRAFFIC LAWS AND RULES CONTROL OPERATION.
   Except as otherwise provided by this subchapter, all provisions of M.S. Ch.
169, regulating traffic and the operation of motor vehicles upon streets or
highways shall apply to the operation upon streets and highways, except for
those relating to required equipment, and except those which by their nature
can have no application.
(Ord. 71, passed 3-12-2019)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Motorized Bicycles
   
72.01   Traffic laws apply
   
72.02   Operator requirements
   
72.03   Additional requirements
   
72.04   Persons under 15 and 16 years of age
   
72.05   Equipment requirements
Snowmobiles
   
72.20   Definitions
   
72.21   Scope of application
   
72.22   Operation
   
72.23   Special orders
   
72.24   Direct crossings
   
72.25   Yielding the right-of-way
   
72.26   Persons under 18
   
72.27   Equipment
   
72.28   Locking vehicles
   
72.29   Emergencies
   
72.30   Animals
   
72.31   Signal from officer to stop
   
72.32   Certain statutes adopted
All-Terrain Vehicles
   
72.45   Scope of application
   
72.46   Certain statutes adopted
Skateboards, Roller Skates and the Like
   
72.60   Definitions
   
72.61   Regulations
MOTORIZED BICYCLES
§ 72.01 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY.
   Every person riding a motorized bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all
of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the
driver of a vehicle by this subchapter, except as to special regulations in
this subchapter and except as to those provisions of this subchapter which, by
their nature, can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 8.03)
§ 72.02 OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motorized bicycle on the roadway
of a street unless:
   (A)   The operator has in possession a valid, current and unrevoked driver’s
license or motorized bicycle permit;
   (B)   The operator is at least 15 years of age;
   (C)   The operator has liability insurance coverage in effect; and/or
   (D)   The operator is wearing an eye protective device, is wearing a helmet
if under 18 years of age and is riding with headlight on if so equipped.
(Prior Code, § 8.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motorized bicycle:
   (A)   On a bike path;
   (B)   On a roadway with a speed limit exceeding 30 mph; and/or
   (C)   While carrying any persons.
(Prior Code, § 8.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 PERSONS 15 AND 16 YEARS OF AGE.
   (A)   Persons 15 and 16 years of age who do not have a driver’s license
shall have a motorized bicycle permit and shall not operate a motorized bicycle
at night.
   (B)   Persons 15 years of age shall take a motorized bicycle safety course
prior to applying for the permit.
(Prior Code, § 8.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   All motorized bicycles shall have 50 cubic centimeters or less of piston
displacement; two or less brake horsepower; and be capable of maximum speed of
30 mph on flat surface with not more than 1% grade in any direction with motor
engaged.
(Prior Code, § 8.03)
SNOWMOBILES
§ 72.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEADMAN THROTTLE or SAFETY THROTTLE. A device which, when pressure is
removed from the engine accelerator or throttle, causes the motor to be
disengaged from the driving mechanism.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lien holder having the property in or title to
a snowmobile entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice
steered by skis or runners.
(Prior Code, § 8.08)
§ 72.21 SCOPE OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Notwithstanding provisions of this subchapter to the contrary, this
section shall apply to control of traffic and regulation of that certain class
of vehicles falling within the definition of snowmobiles as to matters set
forth herein.
   (B)   All provisions of this subchapter, not relating to matters herein
stated, apply as equally to snowmobiles as other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 8.08)
§ 72.22 OPERATION.
   Except as otherwise herein permitted, it is unlawful for any person to
operate a snowmobile not licensed as a motor vehicle as follows:
   (A)   On the portion of any right-of-way of any public highway, street,
road, trail or alley used for motor vehicle travel, except upon the most right-
hand lane of a street or alley and may in passing or making a left-hand turn,
operate on other lanes which are used for vehicle traffic in the same
direction. A snowmobile may also be operated upon the ditch bottom or the
outside bank of trunk, county state-aid and county highways where the highways
are so configured within the corporate limits;
   (B)   On a public sidewalk provided for pedestrian travel;
   (C)   On boulevards within any public right-of-way;
   (D)   On private property of another without specific permission of the
owner or person in control of the property;
   (E)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under all
surrounding circumstances;
   (F)   At any place in a careless, reckless or negligent manner or heedlessly
in disregard of the rights or safety of others, or in a manner so as to
endanger or be likely to endanger or cause injury or damage to any person or
property;
   (G)   During the hours from 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. of any day, closer than
100 feet to any dwelling which is usually occupied by one or more persons;
provided, however, that, snowmobile operation shall be permitted during the
hours when traveling directly to or from the residence of the operator and the
nearest city limits line at a rate of speed not in excess of 15 mph;
   (H)   So as to tow any person or thing except through use of a rigid towbar
attached to the rear of the snowmobile;
   (I)   At any place while under the influence of alcohol or drugs as defined
in M.S. § 169.121, as may be amended from time to time, which is hereby
incorporated herein by reference; and
   (J)   Within 100 feet of any pedestrian, fisher, skating rink or sliding
area where the operation would conflict with the use or endanger other persons
or property.
(Prior Code, § 8.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.23 SPECIAL ORDERS.
   (A)   In addition to the regulations provided in §
72.22, it is unlawful to operate a snowmobile on any public place where
prohibited by order of the city.
   (B)   The areas shall be appropriately sign-posted before the order shall
become effective.
(Prior Code, § 8.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.24 DIRECT CROSSINGS.
   A snowmobile may make a direct crossing of a street or highway, except an
interstate highway or freeway; provided:
   (A)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
   (B)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way;
   (C)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard;
   (D)   In crossing a divided street or highway, the crossing is made only at
an intersection of the street or highway with another public street or highway;
and
   (E)   If the crossing is made between the hours of one-half hour after
sunset to one-half hour before sunrise or in conditions of reduced visibility,
only if both front and rear lights are on.
(Prior Code, § 8.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.25 YIELDING THE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   It is unlawful for any person operating a snowmobile to enter any
intersection without yielding the right-of-way to any vehicles or pedestrians
at the intersection, or so close to the intersection as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
(Prior Code, § 8.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.26 PERSONS UNDER 18.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 14 years to operate a
snowmobile on streets, in city parks or other public land, or the roadway
surface of highways, or make a direct crossing of a trunk,
county state-aid, or county highway as the operator of a snowmobile. A person
14 years of age or older, but less than 18 years of age, may operate a
snowmobile as permitted under this section, only if he or she has in his or her
possession, a safety certificate issued by the Commissioner, as provided by
M.S. § 84.872, as may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the owner of a snowmobile to permit the snowmobile
to be operated contrary to the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 8.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.27 EQUIPMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile any place within the
city unless it is equipped with the following:
   (A)   Standard mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the
noise of operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for operation. No
person shall use a muffler cut-out, by-pass, straight pipe or similar device on
a snowmobile;
   (B)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
snowmobile under any condition of operation;
   (C)   A safety or so-called “deadman” throttle in operating condition;
   (D)   When operated between the hours of one-half hour after sunset to one-
half hour before sunrise or at a time of reduced visibility, at least one clear
lamp attached to the front, with sufficient intensity to reveal persons and
vehicles at a distance of at least 100 feet ahead during the hours of darkness
and under normal atmospheric conditions. The head lamp shall be so aimed that
glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of an oncoming snowmobile
operator. It shall also be equipped with at least one red tail lamp having a
minimum candlepower of sufficient intensity to exhibit a red light plainly
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear during the hours of darkness
under normal atmospheric conditions; and/or
   (E)   Reflective material at least 16 inches on each side, forward of the
handlebars or steering device of a snowmobile and at the highest practical
point on any towed object, as to reflect light at a 90-degree angle.
(Prior Code, § 8.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.28 LOCKING VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to leave a snowmobile on a public place unless
he or she shall lock the ignition, remove the key and take the same with him or
her.
(Prior Code, § 8.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.29 EMERGENCIES.
   Notwithstanding the prohibition of operating a snowmobile upon a roadway to
the contrary, a snowmobile may be operated on a public thoroughfare in an
emergency during the period of time when, at locations where, snow upon the
roadway renders travel by automobile impractical.
(Prior Code, § 8.08)
§ 72.30 ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful to intentionally drive, chase, run over or kill any animal
with a snowmobile.
(Prior Code, § 8.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.31 SIGNAL FROM OFFICER TO STOP.
   It is unlawful for a snowmobile operator, after having received a visible or
audible signal from any law enforcement officer to come to a stop, to:
   (A)   Operate a snowmobile in willful or wanton disregard of the signal;
   (B)   Interfere with or endanger the law enforcement officer or any other
person or vehicle; or
   (C)   Increase his or her speed or attempt to flee or elude the officer.
(Prior Code, § 8.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.32 CERTAIN STATUTES ADOPTED.
   M.S. §§ 84.81 through 84.911, inclusive, as may be amended from time to
time, together with rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, are hereby
adopted by reference, incorporated herein, and made a part hereof, except as
otherwise provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 8.08)
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 72.45 SCOPE OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Notwithstanding provisions of this title to the contrary, this
subchapter shall apply to control of traffic and regulation of that certain
class of vehicles falling within the definition of all-terrain vehicles as to
matters set forth herein.
   (B)   All provisions of this title not relating to matters herein stated
apply as equally to snowmobiles as other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 8.11)
§ 72.46 CERTAIN STATUTES ADOPTED.
   M.S. §§ 84.92 through 84.929, as may be amended from time to time, together
with rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, are hereby adopted by
reference, incorporated herein, and made a part hereof.
(Prior Code, § 8.11)
SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES AND THE LIKE
§ 72.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ROLLER SKATES, IN-LINE SKATES and ROLLER BLADES. A shoe with wheels
attached, or a device with wheels which is designed to be attached to a shoe.
   SKATEBOARDS. A wheeled self-propelled device designed to transport a rider
in a standing position, which device is not otherwise secured to a rider’s foot
or shoes.
(Prior Code, § 8.12)
§ 72.61 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to use the streets, sidewalks or alleys
of the city to operate, propel or ride skateboards, roller skates, in-line
skates or roller blades except in residential areas. When using the devices, it
is unlawful to meet or overtake another person except at a reduced velocity or
pace, substantially equal to a brisk walk.
   (B)   Whenever a person is riding skateboards, roller skates, in-line skates
or roller blades upon a sidewalk where not prohibited, the person shall yield
the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal before
overtaking and passing the pedestrian. Any conduct which creates a dangerous
condition or fails to use precautionary measures for the protection of the
public, regardless of the pace or velocity of the offender, shall be in
violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 8.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 73: PARKING RULES
Section
   
73.01   Presumption
   
73.02   General prohibitions
   
73.03   Recreational camping vehicle parking
   
73.04   Unauthorized removal
   
73.05   Direction to proceed
   
73.06   Parallel parking
   
73.07   Angle parking
   
73.08   Streets without curbs
   
73.09   Parking hours
   
73.10   Snow removal
   
73.11   Truck parking
   
73.12   Parking rules in city parking lots
   
73.13   Impounding and removing vehicles
   
73.14   Loading zones
   
73.15   Unattended vehicle
   
73.16   Vehicle repair on street
   
73.17   Physically disabled parking
   
73.18   Parking on private property without consent
§ 73.01 PRESUMPTION.
   As to any vehicle parking in violation of this title, when the driver
thereof is not present, it shall be presumed that the owner or lessee of the
vehicle parked the same, or that the driver was acting as the agent of the
owner or lessee.
(Prior Code, § 9.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.02 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
specific directions of a police officer or traffic-control device in any of the
following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   On a crosswalk;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at any intersection;
   (G)   In a sign-posted fire lane;
   (H)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   (I)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   (J)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on the
side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of
the entrance when properly sign-posted;
   (K)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when the
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (L)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
   (M)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street;
   (N)   At any place where official signs prohibit or restrict stopping,
parking or both;
   (O)   In any alley, except for loading or unloading and then only so long as
reasonably necessary for the loading and unloading to or from adjacent
premises; or
   (P)   On any boulevard which has been curbed.
(Prior Code, § 9.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.03 RECREATIONAL CAMPING VEHICLE PARKING.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CAMPING TRAILER. A folding structure, mounted on wheels and designed for
travel, recreation and vacation uses.
      MOTOR HOME. A portable, temporary building to be used for travel,
recreation and vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled
vehicle.
      PICK-UP COACH. A structure designed to be mounted on a truck chassis for
use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation.
      TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and
vacation uses, permanently identified “Travel Trailer” by the manufacturer of
the trailer.
   (B)   Unlawful act. It is unlawful for any person to leave or park a
recreational camping vehicle on or within the limits of any street or right-of-
way for a continuous period in excess of 72 hours, except where signs are
erected designating the place as a campsite or in a mobile home park; provided,
however, that, during the 72-hour period, the vehicle shall not be occupied as
living quarters.
(Prior Code, § 9.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.04 UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL.
   It is unlawful for any person to move a vehicle not owned, leased or under
the control of the person into any prohibited area or away from a curb a
distance as is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 9.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.05 DIRECTION TO PROCEED.
   It is unlawful for any person to stop or park a vehicle on a street when
directed or ordered to proceed by any police officer invested by law with
authority to direct, control or regulate traffic.
(Prior Code, § 9.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.06 PARALLEL PARKING.
   Except where angle parking is specifically allowed and indicated by curb or
street marking or sign-posting, or all or any of them, each vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way road where there is an adjacent curb shall be stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle parallel with, and within 12
inches of, the right-hand curb, and, where painted markings appear on the curb
or the street, the vehicle shall be within the markings, front and rear;
provided that, upon a one-way roadway all vehicles shall be so parked, except
that the left-hand wheels of the vehicle may be parallel with and within 12
inches from the left-hand curb, but the front of the vehicle in any event and
with respect to the remainder of the vehicle, shall be in the direction of the
flow of traffic upon the one-way street; and it is unlawful to park in
violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 9.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.07 ANGLE PARKING.
   Where angle parking has been established by Council resolution, and is
allowed, as shown by curb or street marking or sign-posting, or all or any of
them, each vehicle stopped or parked shall be at an angle of approximately 45
to 60 degrees with the front wheel touching the curb and within any parking
lines painted on the curb or street; provided that, the front wheel not
touching the curb shall be the portion of the vehicle furthest in the direction
of one-way traffic; and it is unlawful to park in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 9.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.08 STREETS WITHOUT CURBS.
   Upon streets not having a curb each vehicle shall be stopped or parked
parallel and to the right of the paving, improved or main traveled part of the
street; and it is unlawful to park in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 9.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.09 PARKING HOURS.
   Parking on streets shall be limited as follows.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to stop, park or leave standing any
vehicle or boat upon any street for a continuous period in excess of 72 hours.
   (B)   The Chief of Police may, when authorized by resolution of the Council,
designate certain streets, blocks or portions of streets or blocks as
prohibited parking zones, or five-minute, ten-minute, 15-minute, 30-minute,
one-hour, two-hour, four-hour, six-hour, eight-hour, morning or afternoon rush
hour limited parking zones and shall mark by appropriate signs any zones so
established. The zones shall be established whenever necessary for the
convenience of the public or to minimize traffic hazards and preserve a free
flow of traffic. It is unlawful for any person to stop, park or leave standing
any vehicle in a prohibited parking zone, for a period of time in excess of the
sign-posted limitation, or during sign-posted hours of prohibited parking.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to remove, erase or otherwise obliterate
any mark or sign placed upon a tire or other part of a vehicle by a police
officer for the purpose of measuring the length of time the vehicle has been
parked.
   (D)   For the purpose of enforcement of this section, any vehicle or boat
moved to a location less than one block from the previous location in any
limited time parking zone shall be deemed to have remained stationary.
(Prior Code, § 9.01) (Ord. passed 2-10-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.10 SNOW REMOVAL.
   It is unlawful for any person to park a vehicle on any street between the
hours of 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. every day from November 1 of each year to
April 1 of the year next following after a continuous or intermittent snowfall
during which there has been an accumulation of two inches or more of snow on
any street, and until all snow, ice and similar debris has been plowed or
removed from the paved portion of the street.
(Prior Code, § 9.10) (Ord. passed 10-8-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.11 TRUCK PARKING.
   (A)   It is unlawful to park a detached semi-trailer upon any street, city-
owned parking lot, or other public property, except such as are specifically
designated by the Council by resolution and which may be sign-posted.
   (B)   It is unlawful to park a truck (other than a truck of five tons per
axle gross vehicle weight, or less), truck-trailer, tractor-trailer or truck-
tractor within a residential area, except for the purpose of loading or
unloading the same, and then only during such time as is reasonably necessary
for the activity.
   (C)   It is unlawful to park a commercial vehicle of more than five tons per
axle gross vehicle weight upon any street in the business district, except
streets as specifically designated by the Council by resolution and which may
be sign-posted, but parking of the vehicle for a period allowing sufficient
time for the purpose of necessary access to abutting property while actively
loading or unloading shall be permitted in a space when the access cannot
reasonably be secured from an alley or from an adjacent street where truck
parking is not so restricted.
   (D)   It is unlawful to park a truck or other vehicle using or equipped with
a trailer, or extended body or other extension or projection beyond the
original length of the vehicle, or any passenger bus, diagonally along any
street except for a time sufficient to load or unload, and in such case, only
parallel parking shall be permitted; provided, however, that, a truck may stand
backed up to the curb if the weight or bulk of the load makes parallel parking
impracticable, but then only for a period of time sufficient to load or unload.
   (E)   It is unlawful to park a semi-tractor or semi-trailer on any street,
or within 300 feet of the occupied dwelling of another, with any engine thereon
running, for a period of more than one hour.
(Prior Code, § 9.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.12 PARKING RULES IN CITY PARKING LOTS.
   In city-owned parking lots, the Council may limit the sizes and types of
motor vehicles to be parked thereon, hours of parking and prescribed method of
parking; provided that, the limitations and
restrictions are marked or sign-posted thereon. It is unlawful to park or leave
standing any vehicle backed into a parking place, to drive in a direction
opposite the flow of traffic marked by “one-way” signs or arrows, or to park
any vehicle in any city-owned parking lot contrary to the restrictions or
limitations marked or sign-posted therein.
(Prior Code, § 9.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.13 IMPOUNDING AND REMOVING VEHICLES.
   When any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street or city-owned
parking lot in violation of any parking regulation, the officer is hereby
authorized to require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to
remove the same to a position in compliance with this chapter. When any police
officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any street or city-owned parking lot in
violation of any parking regulation, the officer is hereby authorized to
impound the unlawfully parked vehicle and to provide for the removal thereof
and to remove the same to a convenient garage or other facility or place of
safety; provided that, if any charge shall be placed against the vehicle for
cost of removal or storage, or both, by anyone called upon to assist therewith
the same shall be paid prior to removal from the place of storage or
safekeeping.
(Prior Code, § 9.13)
§ 73.14 LOADING ZONES.
   The Council may, by resolution, establish loading zones to be used for the
specific purpose of loading or unloading merchandise from a commercial vehicle
or vehicle temporarily being utilized in the transport of merchandise. The
loading zones shall be installed by order of the City Administrator where, in
the judgment of the Council, a commercial loading zone is justified and duly
sign-posted.
(Prior Code, § 9.11)
§ 73.15 UNATTENDED VEHICLE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to leave a motor vehicle unattended
while the engine is running.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to leave a motor vehicle unattended with
the key in the ignition.
(Prior Code, § 9.15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.16 VEHICLE REPAIR ON STREET.
   It is unlawful for any person to service, repair, assemble or dismantle any
vehicle parked upon a street, or attempt to do so, except to service the
vehicle with gasoline or oil or to provide emergency repairs thereon, but in no
event for more than 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § 9.16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.17 PHYSICALLY DISABLED PARKING.
   (A)   Statutory parking privileges for physically disabled shall be strictly
observed and enforced. Police officers are authorized to tag vehicles on either
private or public property in violation of the statutory privileges.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person, whether or not physically disabled, to
stop, park or leave standing, a motor vehicle in a sign-posted fire lane at any
time or in lanes where, and during the hours as, parking is prohibited to
accommodate heavy traffic during morning and afternoon rush hours.
(Prior Code, § 9.17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.18 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY WITHOUT CONSENT.
   It is a misdemeanor to park or abandon a motor vehicle on the property of
another, or upon an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without
the consent of the owner, lessee or person in charge of any property or
facility.
(Prior Code, § 9.18) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   ABANDONED, UNCLAIMED AND EXCESS PROPERTY
      
93.   ANIMALS
      
94.   PUBLIC PARKS
      
95.   HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS
CHAPTER 90: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Definitions
   
90.002   Application
   
90.003   Scope and orders of officers
   
90.004   Traffic and parking control
   
90.005   Ice and snow on public sidewalks
   
90.006   Construction and reconstruction of roadway surfacing, sidewalk, curb
and gutter
   
90.007   Load limits
   
90.008   Sewer and water main service lateral installation
Obstructions in Streets
   
90.020   Generally
   
90.021   Fires
   
90.022   Dumping in streets
   
90.023   Signs and other structures
   
90.024   Placing snow or ice in a roadway or on a sidewalk
   
90.025   Continuing violation
   
90.026   Condition
Openings and Excavations
   
90.040   Generally
   
90.041   Application
   
90.042   Investigation and payment of estimated costs
   
90.043   Protection of the city and the public
   
90.044   Issuance of permit
   
90.045   Repairs
   
90.046   Cost adjustment
   
90.047   Alternate method of charging
Grass, Weeds and Trees
   
90.060   City to control tree planting
   
90.061   Permit required
   
90.062   Duty of property owners to cut grass and weeds and maintain trees and
shrubs
   
90.063   City may order work done
   
90.064   Assessment
   
90.065   Reasonable protection
   
90.066   Topping
   
90.067   Plant, remove or cut
   
90.068   Maintenance
Sidewalk Maintenance and Repair
   
90.075   Primary responsibility
   
90.076   Construction, reconstruction and repair specifications
   
90.077   Notice; no emergency
   
90.078   Notice; emergency
   
90.079   Failure of owner to reconstruct or make repairs
   
90.080   Inspection
   
90.081   Sidewalk removal
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise defined in the city code, or where the context clearly
indicates a contrary intent, the words and terms defined in M.S. Chapter 169,
as may be amended from time to time, shall be applicable to this title and
Title VII of this code.
(Prior Code, § 7.01)
§ 90.002 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this title and Title VII of this code are applicable to
the drivers of all vehicles and animals upon streets, including, but not
limited to, those owned or operated by the United States, the state or any
county, town, city, district or other political subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 7.02)
§ 90.003 SCOPE AND ORDERS OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   The provisions of this title and Title VII of this code relate
exclusively to the streets, alleys and private roads in the city, and the
operation and parking of vehicles refer exclusively to the operation and
parking of vehicles upon the streets, alleys and private roads.
   (B)   It is a misdemeanor for any person to willfully fail or refuse to
comply with any lawful order or direction of any police or peace officer
invested by law with authority to direct, control or regulate traffic.
(Prior Code, § 7.03) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.004 TRAFFIC AND PARKING CONTROL.
   (A)   Council action. No device, sign or signal shall be erected or
maintained for traffic or parking control unless the Council shall first have
approved and directed the same, except as otherwise provided in this section;
provided that, when traffic and parking control is marked or sign-posted, the
marking or sign-posting shall attest to Council action thereon.
   (B)   Temporary restrictions. The city, acting through the Chief of Police,
may temporarily restrict traffic or parking for any private, public or
experimental purpose. It is the duty of the Chief of Police to so restrict
traffic or parking when a hazardous condition arises or is observed.
   (C)   Traffic restrictions and prohibitions. It is a misdemeanor for any
person to drive a vehicle contrary to lane restrictions or prohibitions painted
on any street, or contrary to sign-posted, fenced or barricaded restrictions or
prohibitions.
   (D)   Parking restrictions and prohibitions. It is unlawful for any person
to park a vehicle, except an emergency vehicle, contrary to lane restrictions
or prohibitions painted on any curb, or contrary to sign-posted, fenced or
barricaded restrictions or prohibitions.
   (E)   Damaging or moving markings. It is a misdemeanor for any person to
deface, mar, damage, move, remove or, in any way, tamper with any structure,
work, material, equipment, tools, sign, signal, barricade, fence, painting or
appurtenance in any street unless the person has written permission from the
city or is an agent, employee or contractor for the city, or other authority
having jurisdiction over a particular street, and acting within the authority
or scope of a contract with the city or other authority.
(Prior Code, § 7.04) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.005 ICE AND SNOW ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Ice and snow a nuisance. All snow and ice remaining upon public
sidewalks is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance and shall be
abated by the owner or tenant of the abutting private property within 12 hours
after the snow or ice has ceased to be deposited.
   (B)   City to remove snow and ice. The city may cause to be removed from all
public sidewalks, beginning 24 hours after snow or ice has ceased to fall, all
snow or ice which may be discovered thereon, and it shall keep a record of the
cost of the removal and the private property adjacent to which accumulations
were found and removed.
   (C)   Cost of removal to be assessed. The City Administrator shall, upon
direction of the Council, and on receipt of the information provided for in the
preceding division (B), extend the cost of the removal of snow or ice as a
special assessment against the lots or parcel of ground abutting on walks which
were cleared, and the special assessments shall at the time of certifying taxes
to the County Auditor be certified for collection as other special assessments
are certified and collected.
   (D)   Civil suit for cost of removal. The City Administrator shall, in the
alternative, upon direction of the Council, bring suit in a court of competent
jurisdiction to recover from the persons owning land adjacent to which
sidewalks were cleared, as provided in division (B) above, the cost of the
clearing and the cost and disbursement of a civil action therefor.
   (E)   Administrator to report sidewalks cleared. The City Administrator
shall present to the Council at its first meeting after snow or ice has been
cleared from the sidewalks as provided in division (B) above the report of the
city thereon, and shall request the Council to determine by resolution the
manner of collection to be used as provided in divisions (C) or (D) above.
(Prior Code, § 7.05) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.006 CONSTRUCTION AND RECONSTRUCTION OF ROADWAY SURFACING, SIDEWALK, CURB
AND GUTTER.
   (A)   Methods of procedure.
      (1)   Abutting or affected property owners may contract for, construct or
reconstruct roadway surfacing, sidewalk or curb and gutter in accordance with
this section if advance payment is made therefor or arrangements for payment
considered adequate by the city are completed in advance.
      (2)   With or without petition by the methods set forth in the Local
Improvement Code of state statutes, presently beginning with M.S. § 429.011, as
may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Permit required. It is a misdemeanor to construct or reconstruct a
sidewalk, curb and gutter, driveway or roadway surfacing in any street or other
public property in the city without a permit in writing from the city.
Application for the permit shall be made on forms approved and provided by the
city and shall sufficiently describe the contemplated improvements, the
contemplated date of beginning of work, and the length of time required to
complete the same; provided that, no permit shall be required for any
improvement ordered installed by the Council. All applications shall be
referred by the City Administrator to the Public Works Director and no permit
shall be issued until approval has been received from the Public Works
Director. All applications shall contain an agreement by the applicant to be
bound by this chapter and plans and specifications consistent with the
provisions of this chapter and good engineering practices shall also accompany
the application. A permit from the city shall not relieve the holder from
damages to the person or property of another caused by the work.
   (C)   Specifications and standards. All construction and reconstruction of
roadway surfacing, sidewalk and curb and gutter improvements, including curb
cuts, shall be strictly in accordance with specifications and standards on file
in the office of the City Administrator and open to inspection and copying
there. The specifications and standards may be amended from time to time by the
city, but shall be uniformly enforced.
   (D)   Inspection. The Public Works Director shall inspect improvements as
deemed necessary or advisable. Any work not done according to the applicable
specifications and standards shall be removed and corrected at the expense of
the permit holder. Any work done hereunder may be stopped by the Public Works
Director if found to be unsatisfactory or not in accordance with the
specifications and standards, but this shall not place a continuing burden upon
the city to inspect or supervise the work.
(Prior Code, § 7.06) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.007 LOAD LIMITS.
   The City Administrator, upon the recommendation of the Public Works
Director, may from time to time impose upon vehicular traffic on any part or
all of the streets load limits as may be necessary or desirable. The limits,
and the specific extent or weight to which loads are limited, shall be clearly
and legibly sign-posted thereon. It is a misdemeanor for any person to operate
a vehicle on any street in violation of the limitation so posted.
(Prior Code, § 7.10) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.008 SEWER AND WATER MAIN SERVICE LATERAL INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Requirement of sewer and water laterals. No petition for the
improvement of a street shall be considered by the Council if the petition
contemplates constructing therein any part of a pavement or stabilized base, or
curb and gutter, unless all sewer and water main installations shall have been
made therein, including the installation of service laterals to the curb, if
the area along the street will be served by the utilities installed in the
street.
   (B)   Sewer system service and water main service laterals. No sewer system
shall be hereafter constructed or extended unless service laterals to platted
lots and frontage facing thereon shall be extended simultaneously with
construction of mains.
   (C)   Waiver. The Council may waive the requirements of this section only if
it finds the effects thereof are burdensome and upon the notice and hearing as
the Council may deem necessary or proper.
(Prior Code, § 7.11) Penalty, see §
90.999
OBSTRUCTIONS IN STREETS
§ 90.020 GENERALLY.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person to place, deposit, display or offer for
sale, any fence, goods or other obstructions upon, over, across or under any
street without first having obtained a written permit from the Council, and
then only in compliance in all respects with the terms and conditions of the
permit, and taking precautionary measures for the protection of the public. An
electrical cord or device of any kind is hereby included, but not by way of
limitation, within the definition of an obstruction.
(Prior Code, § 7.07) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.021 FIRES.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person to build or maintain a fire upon a
street.
(Prior Code, § 7.07) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.022 DUMPING IN STREETS.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person to throw or deposit in any street any
nails, dirt, glass or glassware, cans, discarded cloth or clothing, metal
scraps, garbage, leaves, grass or tree limbs, paper or paper products, shreds
or rubbish, oil, grease or other petroleum products, or to empty any water
containing salt or other injurious chemical thereon. It is a violation of this
section to haul any such material, inadequately enclosed or covered, thereby
permitting the same to fall upon streets. It is also a violation of this
section to place or store any building materials or waste resulting from
building construction or demolition on any street without first having obtained
a written permit from the Council.
(Prior Code, § 7.07) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.023 SIGNS AND OTHER STRUCTURES.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person to place or maintain a sign,
advertisement or other structure in any street without first having obtained a
written permit from the Council.
(Prior Code, § 7.07) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.024 PLACING SNOW OR ICE IN A ROADWAY OR ON A SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It is a misdemeanor for any person, not acting under a specific
contract with the city or without special permission from the city, to remove
snow or ice from private property and place the same in any roadway or on a
sidewalk.
   (B)   Where permission is granted by the city, the person to whom permission
is granted shall be initially responsible for payment of all direct or indirect
costs of removing the snow or ice from the street or sidewalk. If not paid,
collection shall be by civil action or assessment against the benefitted
property as any other special assessment.
(Prior Code, § 7.07) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.025 CONTINUING VIOLATION.
   Each day that any person continues in violation of this section shall be a
separate offense and punishable as such.
(Prior Code, § 7.07)
§ 90.026 CONDITION.
   Before granting any permit under any of the provisions of this section, the
Council may impose such insurance or bonding conditions thereon as it,
considering the projected danger to public or private property or to persons,
deems proper for safeguarding the persons and property. The insurance or bond
shall also protect the city from any suit, action or cause of action arising by
reason of the obstruction.
(Prior Code, § 7.07)
OPENINGS AND EXCAVATIONS
§ 90.040 GENERALLY.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person, except a city employee acting within the
course and scope of his or her employment or a contractor acting within the
course and scope of a contract with the city, to make any excavation, opening
or tunnel in, over, across or upon a street or other public property without
first having obtained a written permit from the city as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 7.08) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.041 APPLICATION.
   Application for a permit to make a street excavation shall describe, with
reasonable particularity, the name and address of the applicant, the place,
purpose and size of the excavation and other information as may be necessary or
desirable to facilitate the investigation hereinafter provided for, and shall
be filed with the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 7.08)
§ 90.042 INVESTIGATION AND PAYMENT OF ESTIMATED COSTS.
   Upon receipt of the application, the City Administrator shall cause the
investigation to be made as he or she may deem necessary to determine estimated
cost of repair, such as back-filling, compacting, resurfacing and replacement,
and the conditions as to the time of commencement of work, manner of procedure
and time limitation upon the excavation. The foregoing estimated costs shall
include permanent and temporary repairs due to weather or other conditions, and
the cost of the investigation shall be included in the estimate. Payment of the
estimated costs shall be made before the permit is issued.
(Prior Code, § 7.08)
§ 90.043 PROTECTION OF THE CITY AND THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   Noncompletion or abandonment. Work shall progress expeditiously to
completion in accordance with any time limitation placed thereon so as to avoid
unnecessary inconvenience to the public. In the event that work is not
performed in accordance therewith, or shall cease or be abandoned without due
cause, the city may, after six hours notice in writing to the holder of the
permit of its intention to do so, correct the work, fill the excavation and
repair the public property, and the cost thereof shall be paid by the person
holding the permit.
   (B)   Insurance. Prior to commencement of the work described in the
application, the applicant shall furnish the city satisfactory evidence in
writing that the applicant will keep in effect public liability insurance of
not less than $100,000 for any person, $300,000 for any occurrence and property
damage insurance of not less than $25,000, issued by an insurance company
authorized to do business in the state on which the city is named as a co-
insured.
   (C)   Indemnification. Before issuance of a permit, the applicant shall, in
writing, agree to indemnify and hold the city harmless from any liability for
injury or damage arising out of the action of the applicant in performance of
the work, or any expense whatsoever incurred by the city incident to a claim or
action brought or commenced by any person arising therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 7.08)
§ 90.044 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The city shall issue the permit after:
      (1)   Completion of the investigation;
      (2)   Determination of all estimated costs as aforesaid;
      (3)   Agreement by the applicant to the conditions of time and manner as
aforesaid;
      (4)   Agreement in writing by the applicant to pay all actual cost of
repairs over and above the estimate; and
      (5)   Agreement in writing by the applicant to be bound by all of the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued until the applicant has paid all of the
foregoing together with the investigation, inspection and permit fees as are
fixed and determined by resolution of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 7.08)
§ 90.045 REPAIRS.
   All temporary and permanent repairs, including back-filling, compacting and
resurfacing shall be made, or contracted for, by the city in a manner
prescribed by the city and an accurate account of costs thereof shall be kept.
(Prior Code, § 7.08)
§ 90.046 COST ADJUSTMENT.
   Within 60 days following completion of the permanent repairs, the City
Administrator shall determine actual costs of repairs, including cost of
investigation, and prepare and furnish to the permit holder an itemized
statement thereof and claim additional payment from, or make refund (without
interest) to, the permit holder, as the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 7.08)
§ 90.047 ALTERNATE METHOD OF CHARGING.
   In lieu of the above provisions relating to cost and cost adjustment for
street openings, the city may charge on the basis of surface square feet
removed, excavated cubic feet, or a combination of surface square feet and
excavated cubic feet, on an established unit price uniformly, charged.
(Prior Code, § 7.08)
GRASS, WEEDS AND TREES
§ 90.060 CITY TO CONTROL TREE PLANTING.
   The city shall have control and supervision of planting shrubs and trees
upon, or overhanging, all the streets or other public property. The city may
establish and enforce uniform standards relating to the kinds and types of
trees to be planted and the placement thereof. The standards shall be kept on
file in the office of the City Administrator and may be revised from time to
time by action of the Council upon the recommendation of the City
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 7.09)
§ 90.061 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No other planting of trees or shrubs shall be done by any person without the
written consent of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7.09) (Ord. 317, Second Series, passed 6-2-2009) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.062 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNERS TO CUT GRASS AND WEEDS AND MAINTAIN TREES AND
SHRUBS.
   Every owner of property abutting on any street shall cause the grass and
weeds to be cut from the line of the property nearest to the street to the
center of the street. If the grass or weeds in such a place attain a height in
excess of six inches, it shall be prima facie evidence of a failure to comply
with this section. The city shall trim, cut and otherwise maintain all trees
and shrubs from the line of the property nearest to the street. City trimming
and maintenance shall be done according to the manner prescribed in the city’s
Boulevard Tree Maintenance Policy.
(Prior Code, § 7.09) (Ord. 315, Second Series, passed 12-9-2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.063 CITY MAY ORDER WORK DONE.
   The city may, in cases of failure to comply with this section, perform the
work with employees of the city, keeping an accurate account of the cost
thereof for each lot, piece or parcel of land abutting upon the street.
(Prior Code, § 7.09)
§ 90.064 ASSESSMENT.
   If the maintenance work is performed by the city as set forth in §
90.063, the City Administrator shall forthwith, upon completion thereof,
ascertain the cost attributable to each lot, piece or parcel of abutting land.
The City Administrator shall, at the next regular meeting thereof, present the
certificate
to the Council and obtain its approval thereof. When the certificate has been
approved, it shall be extended as to the cost therein stated as a special
assessment against the abutting land and the special assessment shall, at the
time of certifying taxes to the County Auditor, be certified for collection as
other special assessments are certified and collected.
(Prior Code, § 7.09)
§ 90.065 REASONABLE PROTECTION.
   Any tree located on city property in the immediate vicinity of any
excavation, demolition, or construction site of any building structure, street,
or utility work which has potential for injury, shall be reasonably protected
from such injury by the property owner or contractor.
(Ord. 317, Second Series, passed 6-2-2009)
§ 90.066 TOPPING.
   It is unlawful for any person to top any street tree, park tree, or other
tree on public property. Topping is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs
to stubs within the tree’s crown to such a degree so as to remove normal canopy
and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes or
certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning
practices are impractical may be exempted from this section, as determined by
the city.
(Ord. 317, Second Series, passed 6-2-2009) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.067 PLANT, REMOVE OR CUT.
   It is unlawful for any person to plant, remove or cut above the ground, or
disturb any tree on any street, park or public place without first filing a
request application and procuring a permit from the city. The person receiving
the request shall abide by the standards set forth in this section.
(Ord. 317, Second Series, passed 6-2-2009) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.068 MAINTENANCE.
   Owners of property adjacent to street trees shall maintain the trees by
periodic watering and fertilizing of street trees as necessary to maintain good
health and vigor and protect the trees against damage caused by lawnmowers,
weed trimmers, snow blowers and similar equipment.
(Ord. 317, Second Series, passed 6-2-2009)
SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
§ 90.075 PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITY.
   It is the primary responsibility of the owner of property upon which there
is abutting any sidewalk to keep and maintain the sidewalk in safe and
serviceable condition.
(Prior Code, § 7.12)
§ 90.076 CONSTRUCTION, RECONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR SPECIFICATIONS.
   All construction, reconstruction or repair of sidewalks shall be done in
strict accordance with specifications on file in the office of the City
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 7.12)
§ 90.077 NOTICE; NO EMERGENCY.
   Where, in the opinion of the Public Works Director, no emergency exists,
notice of the required repair or reconstruction shall be given to the owner of
the abutting property. The notice shall require completion of the work within
90 days and shall be mailed to the owner or owners shown to be on the records
of the county officer who mails tax statements.
(Prior Code, § 7.12)
§ 90.078 NOTICE; EMERGENCY.
   Where, in the opinion of the Public Works Director, an emergency exists,
notice of the required repair or reconstruction shall be given to the owner of
the abutting property. The notice shall require completion of the work within
15 days and shall be mailed to the owner or owners shown to be on the records
of the county officer who mails tax statements.
(Prior Code, § 7.12)
§ 90.079 FAILURE OF OWNER TO RECONSTRUCT OR MAKE REPAIRS.
   If the owner of the abutting property fails to make repairs or accomplish
reconstruction as herein required, the City Administrator shall report the
failure to the Council and the Council may order the work to be done under its
direction and the cost thereof assessed to the abutting property owner as any
other special assessment.
(Prior Code, § 7.12)
§ 90.080 INSPECTION.
   The Public Works Director shall make inspections as are necessary to
determine that sidewalks are kept in safe and serviceable condition.
(Prior Code, § 7.12)
§ 90.081 SIDEWALK REMOVAL.
   (A)   The owner of property upon which there is an abutting sidewalk may
petition the city to have the sidewalk removed. The owner shall inform the city
and acquire a city petition for sidewalk removal form from the city office. The
owner of the adjacent property must obtain the consent of all of the owners of
adjoining property on that owner’s side of the block (one-quarter of the city
block). Upon obtaining the consent, the owner shall submit the petition to the
city office and the City Administrator shall inform the Public Works Director
of the petition. The Public Works Director shall view the proposed sidewalk to
be removed and report to the City Council.
   (B)   The City Council may approve the petition for removal or decline to do
so based on the following factors:
      (1)   The street along which the current sidewalk runs is residential in
nature;
      (2)   The sidewalk is not needed for the safety of pedestrians, school
children or the elderly;
      (3)   All of the owners of property adjoining the sidewalk on that block
(same side of the street) have consented to the removal; and/or
      (4)   The sidewalk being petitioned is in poor repair and is in need of
replacing.
   (C)   The business district and non-residential areas of the city, sidewalks
adjoining blocks containing a school, church or nursing home, and sidewalks
adjoining blocks adjoining County Road #2 are required for the public safety
and convenience of pedestrians; repair costs as to these sidewalks, and these
only, shall be at city cost. The City Council shall have the sole discretion to
decide when repair is necessary.
   (D)   Upon approval of the petition for removal by City Council, the Public
Works Director shall consult with the owner regarding the work on removing the
sidewalk and shall inform the owner of the placement of the water shut-off
valve.
   (E)   The owner of the property adjacent to the sidewalk shall contract for
or accomplish the removal of the sidewalk, removal of the base of the sidewalk
to a depth of four inches, shall backfill the area with black dirt and shall
seed or sod the sidewalk removal area. The adjoining property owner is required
to
maintain the area of removal and keep it level with the adjoining property or
sidewalk. The owner shall be responsible for any damage to the water shut-off
valve or other city property in the street right-of-way.
   (F)   If the owner of the abutting property fails to accomplish the
reconstruction and sodding of the area as required above, or causes damage to
city property, such as the water shut-off valve, the Public Works Director and
the City Administrator shall report the failure to the Council and the Council
may order the work or repair to be done under its direction and the cost
thereof assessed to the abutting property owner as any other special
assessment.
(Ord. 312, Second Series, passed 8-8-2006) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Every person violates a section, division or provision of this chapter
when he or she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as follows.
      (1)   Where the specific section, division or provision specifically
makes violation a misdemeanor, he or she shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor; where a violation is committed in a manner or under circumstances
so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property, he or she
shall be punished as for a misdemeanor; where he or she stands convicted of
violation of any provision of this chapter, exclusive of violations relating to
the standing or parking of an unattended vehicle, within the immediate
preceding 12-month period for the third or subsequent time, he or she shall be
punished as for a misdemeanor.
      (2)   As to any violation not constituting a misdemeanor under the
provisions of division (A)(1) above, he or she shall be punished as for a petty
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7.99)
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§ 90.60 through
90.068 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be punished by a fine of not
more than $1,000 or imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both. In
addition thereto, the costs of prosecution may be imposed upon the defendant,
and the court shall order restitution to the city for damage to the tree or
public property.
(Ord. 317, Second Series, passed 6-2-2009)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Findings
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Refuse storage
   
91.04   Junk storage
   
91.05   Nuisance
   
91.06   Additional unlawful acts
   
91.07   Individual sewer system; maintenance
   
91.08   Tobacco; unlawful use and furnishing
   
91.09   Open burning of leaves
   
91.10   Private property maintenance
   
91.11   State Uniform Fire Code adopted
   
91.12   Public nuisance generally
   
91.13   Permitting a public nuisance
   
91.14   Nuisances requiring immediate action
Shade Tree Disease Control and Prevention
   
91.20   Policy and purpose
   
91.21   Definitions
   
91.22   Scope and adoption by reference
   
91.23   Unlawful act
   
91.24   Inspection and diagnosis
   
91.25   Abatement of nuisance
   
91.26   Removal of infected trees and wood
   
91.27   Spraying trees
   
91.28   Transporting wood prohibited
   
91.29   Interference prohibited
   
91.30   Additional duties of Tree Inspector
   
91.31   Diseased trees in streets
   
91.32   Subsidies
Public Property Obstructions
   
91.45   Generally
   
91.46   Fires
   
91.47   Dumping on public property
   
91.48   Signs and other structures
   
91.49   Snow or ice on public property
   
91.50   Continuing violation
   
91.51   Conditions
Automobiles and Vehicles
   
91.65   Parking manufactured homes and recreational camping vehicles
   
91.66   Abandoning a motor vehicle
Cross-reference:
   For provisions regarding hazardous buildings, grounds and facilities, see
Ch. 153
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 FINDINGS.
   The Council finds that unregulated deposit and storage of junk and
unregulated storage and non-mandatory collection of refuse are not only
potential, but immediate, habitat for rodents, the spread of noxious weeds and
other hazardous conditions of decay which are insanitary, unhealthy and an
ecological blight. The Council further finds that the hazardous conditions must
not only be halted in the future, but also corrected for the present. The
Council recognizes that the regulations, prohibitions and remedies provided for
herein are bold steps, but absolutely essential to the health of the residents
and ecology of the community.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL PREMISES. Two types:
      (1)   Any premises where a commercial, industrial or governmental
enterprise of any kind is carried on where food is prepared or served from a
central kitchen, including restaurants, clubs, churches, schools and health
care facilities; or
      (2)   Any premises where a commercial, industrial or governmental
enterprise of any kind is carried on where food is not prepared or served.
   JUNK. All:
      (1)   Unregistered, unlicensed or inoperable (including, but not limited
to, the lack of component parts) motor vehicles, motorized vehicles or
equipment, bicycles, boats, outboard motors or trailers or parts or components
thereof;
      (2)   Inoperable (including, but not limited to, the lack of component
parts) agricultural implements or parts or components thereof, machines and
mechanical equipment of all kinds or parts or components thereof, and by-
products or waste from manufacturing operations of all kinds;
      (3)   Used lumber or waste resulting from building construction,
renovation, remodeling or demolition; or
      (4)   Felled trees and tree branches that are not immediately processed
into lumber, wood for fuel, fence components or other ultimate use.
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   Maintaining or permitting a condition which unreasonably annoys,
injures or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any
considerable number of members of the public;
      (2)   Interfering with, obstructing or rendering dangerous for passage,
any street, public right-of-way or waters used by the public; and/or
      (3)   Any other act or omission declared by law to be a public nuisance.
   REFUSE. All organic and inorganic:
      (1)   Material resulting from the manufacture, preparation or serving of
food or food products;
      (2)   Spoiled, decayed or waste food from any source;
      (3)   Bottles, cans, glassware, paper or paper products, crockery, ashes,
rags and discarded clothing;
      (4)   Tree, lawn or bush clippings and weeds;
      (5)   Furniture, household furnishings or appliances, or parts or
components thereof; or
      (6)   Human or household waste of all kinds not included in any other
portion of this definition.
   RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. Any building consisting of any number of dwelling
units, each with individual kitchen facilities, and, in the case of multiple
dwelling units in the building, each unit shall be considered RESIDENTIAL
PREMISES.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 91.03 REFUSE STORAGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to store refuse on residential or
commercial premises, type two, for a continuous period in excess of seven days.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to store refuse on commercial premises,
type one, a continuous period in excess of 96 hours.
   (C)   It is unlawful to store organic refuse unless it is drained, wrapped
(in paper or plastic) and placed in an impervious and leak-proof container with
a tight-fitting cover.
(Prior Code, § 10.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 JUNK STORAGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful to park or store junk on any premises unless it is
housed within a completely enclosed building or on duly licensed junk dealer
premises.
   (B)   If any person fails or refuses to comply with division (A) above, the
city may, upon 15 days’ notice in writing mailed to the owner of the premises
at the address appearing on the tax rolls and, as an additional and not
alternate to any other remedy provided herein, physically remove the junk,
dispose of it as valueless and certify all costs thereof to the County Auditor
to be spread upon the tax rolls as a special assessment on the subject
property.
(Prior Code, § 10.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05 NUISANCE.
   It is unlawful for any person to permit or maintain a nuisance upon any
premises.
(Prior Code, § 10.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 ADDITIONAL UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to deposit offal or the body of a dead
animal in any place other than a sanitary landfill or other facilities approved
by statute or the city code.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to store, deposit or dispose of any
refuse which is in flames or heated to the point of danger of fire.
(Prior Code, § 10.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.07 INDIVIDUAL SEWERAGE SYSTEMS; MAINTENANCE.
   It is unlawful for the owner or tenant of any premises to permit an
individual sewage disposal system to overflow or expose the contents thereof
above ground.
(Prior Code, § 10.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08 TOBACCO; UNLAWFUL USE AND FURNISHING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, under the age of 18 years, to use
tobacco in any form.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to furnish tobacco, by any manner or
means and in any form, to any person under the age of 18 years.
(Prior Code, § 10.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.09 OPEN BURNING OF LEAVES.
   (A)   Burning permitted. Subject to the provisions of M.S. §§ 88.16, 88.17
and 88.22, as may be amended from time to time, the open burning of dried
leaves between September 15 and November 15 is hereby permitted.
   (B)   Limits and conditions.
      (1)   The burning shall be not less than 25 feet from any structure, wood
fence, hedge or bush and no less than five feet from any property line.
      (2)   Burning shall be from 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. only, with all fires
extinguished by 8:00 p.m.
      (3)   No burning is permitted in streets, boulevards or any public
property by private citizens.
      (4)   All such fires shall be attended by a person of suitable age and
discretion until the fire is completely extinguished.
      (5)   No burning shall take place during an air pollution alert, warning
or emergency declared by the State Environmental Protection Agency.
      (6)   The Council may temporarily discontinue burning between September
15 and December 1 due to unsafe conditions (i.e., excessive dryness and the
like). At the discretion of the Council, the last day of burning may be
extended to December 1.
   (C)   Copy to state agencies. A copy of this section, or any amendment
thereof, shall be submitted to the State Pollution Control Agency and the State
Department of Natural Resources.
(Prior Code, § 10.21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.10 PRIVATE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It is the primary responsibility of any owner or occupant of any lot
or parcel of land to maintain any weeds or grass growing thereon at a height of
not more than six inches; to remove all public health or safety hazards
therefrom; to install or repair water service lines thereon; and to treat or
remove insect-infested or diseased trees thereon.
   (B)   If any owner or occupant fails to assume the primary responsibility
described in division (A) above, and after notice given by the City
Administrator has not within seven days of the notice complied, the city may
cause the work to be done and the expenses thus incurred shall be a lien upon
the real estate. The City Administrator shall certify to the County Auditor a
statement of the amount of the cost incurred by the city. The amount together
with interest shall be entered as a special assessment against the lot or
parcel of land and be collected in the same manner as real estate taxes.
(Prior Code, § 10.22)
§ 91.11 STATE UNIFORM FIRE CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adoption of Uniform Fire Code. The city hereby adopts for the purpose
of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property
from fire or explosion, that certain Code known as the Uniform Fire Code
recommended by the Western Fire Chiefs Association and the International
Conference of Building Officials, reference 1980 NFPA volumes, except Volume
101, Life Safety Code, of which Code not less than three copies have been and
are now filed in the office of the City Clerk and the same are hereby adopted
and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the
effective date hereof, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
limits of the city.
   (B)   Establishment and duties of city Fire Marshal.
      (1)   Enforcement of Code. The Uniform Fire Code shall be enforced by the
city Fire Marshal in the city Fire Department which is hereby established and
which shall be operated under the supervision of the Chief of the Fire
Department and the City Administrator.
      (2)   Appointment of Fire Marshal. The city Fire Marshal shall be
appointed by the City Council upon recommendation by the City Administrator on
the basis of examination to determine qualifications.
      (3)   Authority of the Fire Chief. The Chief of the Fire Department may
detail such members of the Fire Department as inspectors as shall from time to
time be necessary. The Chief of the Fire Department shall recommend to the City
Administrator the employment of technical inspectors, who, when such
authorization is made, shall be selected through an examination to determine
their fitness for the position. The examination shall be open to all members
and nonmembers of the Fire Department, and appointments made after the
examination shall be for an indefinite term.
   (C)   Definitions.
      (1)   Wherever the word JURISDICTION is used in the Uniform Fire Code, it
shall be held to mean the city.
      (2)   Whenever the term CORPORATION COUNSEL is used in the Uniform Fire
Code, it shall be held to mean the Attorney for the city.
      (3)   Whenever the words PERSON IN CHARGE OF THE BUREAU OF FIRE
PREVENTION are used in the Uniform Fire Code, they shall be held to mean the
city Fire Marshal.
   (D)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provisions of this Code hereby
adopted or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply
with any order made hereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed
statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved hereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been
taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified
by the city or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed
herein, shall severally for each and every such violation and noncompliance
respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in
this Code. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required to
correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when
not otherwise specified, each day that prohibited conditions are maintained
shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent
the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Prior Code, § 10.23) (Ord. 330, passed 9-13-2011)
§ 91.12 PUBLIC NUISANCE GENERALLY.
   It is unlawful for any person to maintain a public nuisance by his or her
act or failure to perform a legal duty, and for purposes of this section, a
public nuisance shall be defined as any of the following:
   (A)   Maintaining or permitting a condition which unreasonably annoys,
injures or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any
considerable number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interfering with, obstructing or rendering dangerous for passage, any
street, public right-of-way or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Any other act or omission declared by law to be a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 10.38) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.13 PERMITTING A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   It is unlawful for any person to permit real property under his or her
control to be used to maintain a public nuisance, or let the same to another
knowing it is to be so used.
(Prior Code, § 10.39) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.14 NUISANCES REQUIRING IMMEDIATE ACTION.
   Nuisances requiring immediate action shall be abated as provided in this
section.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHILD. Any person less than 18 years of age.
      CHEMICAL DUMPSITE. Any place or area where chemicals or other waste
materials used in a clandestine drug lab have been located.
      CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB. The unlawful manufacture or attempt to manufacture
controlled substances.
      CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITE. Any place or area where law enforcement has
determined that conditions associated with the operation of an unlawful
clandestine drug lab exist. A CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITE may include dwellings,
accessory buildings, accessory structures, a chemical dumpsite, abandoned
vehicle or any land.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. A drug, substance or immediate precursor in
Schedules I through V of M.S. §
152.02, as may be amended from time to time. The term shall not include
distilled spirits, wine, 3.2% malt beverages, intoxicating liquors or tobacco.
      HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTES. Waste generated from a clandestine drug lab.
The wastes shall be treated, stored, transported or disposed of in a manner
consistent with State Department of Health, State Pollution Control and County
Health Department rules and regulations.
      MANUFACTURE. In places other than a pharmacy, shall mean and include the
production, cultivation, quality control and standardization, by mechanical,
physical, chemical or pharmaceutical means, packing, repacking, tableting,
encapsulating, labeling, relabeling, filling or by other process of drugs.
      OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation who owns, in whole or in part, the
land, buildings or structures associated with a clandestine drug lab site or
chemical dumpsite.
      PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCES. All dwellings, accessory structures and
buildings or adjacent property associated with a clandestine drug lab site are
potentially unsafe due to health hazards and are considered a public health
nuisance.
   (B)   Law enforcement notice to other authorities. Law enforcement
authorities that identify conditions associated with a clandestine drug lab
site or chemical dumpsite that places neighbors, visiting public, or present
and future occupants of the dwelling at risk for exposure to harmful
contaminants and other associated conditions must properly notify the
appropriate municipal, child protection and public health authorities of the
property location, property owner if known, and conditions found.
   (C)   Declaration of property as a public health nuisance. If law
enforcement determines the existence of a clandestine drug lab site or chemical
dumpsite, the property shall be declared a public health nuisance.
   (D)   Notice of public health nuisance to concerned parties. Upon
notification by law enforcement authorities, the City Building Official shall
promptly issue a declaration of public health nuisance for the affected
property and post a copy of the declaration at the probable entrance to the
dwelling or property. The Building Official shall also notify the owner of the
property by mail and notify the following parties:
      (1)   Occupants of the property;
      (2)   Neighbors at probable risk;
      (3)   The City Police Department; and
      (4)   Other state and local authorities, such as MPCA and MDG, which are
known to have public and environmental protection responsibilities that are
applicable to the situation.
   (E)   Property owner’s responsibility to act. The Building Official shall
also issue an order ordering the property owner to abate the public health
nuisance, including the following:
      (1)   Immediately vacates those portions of the property, including
buildings or structure interiors, which may place the occupants or visitors at
risk;
      (2)   Promptly contract with appropriate environmental testing and
cleaning firms to conduct an on-site assessment, complete clean-up and remedy
testing and follow-up testing and determine that the property risks are
sufficiently reduced to allow safe human occupancy of the dwelling. The
property owner shall notify the city of actions taken and reach an agreement
with the city on the clean-up schedule. The city shall consider practical
limitations and the availability of contractors in approving the schedule for
clean-up; and
      (3)   Provide written documentation of the clean-up process, including a
signed, written statement that the property is safe for human occupancy and
that the clean-up was conducted in accordance with State Department of Health
guidelines.
   (F)   Property owner’s responsibility for costs.
      (1)   The property owner shall be responsible for all costs of vacation
or clean-up of the site, including contractor’s fees and public costs for
services that were performed in associated with a clandestine drug lab site or
chemical dumpsite clean-up.
      (2)   Public costs may include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Posting of the site;
         (b)   Notification of affected parties;
         (c)   Expenses related to the recovery costs, including the assessment
process;
         (d)   Laboratory fees;
         (e)   Clean-up services;
         (f)   Administrative fees; and
         (g)   Other associated costs.
   (G)   Recovery of public costs.
      (1)   If, after service of notice of the declaration of public health
nuisance, the property owner fails to arrange appropriate assessment and clean-
up, the City Building Official is authorized to proceed in a prompt manner to
initiate the on-site assessment and clean-up.
      (2)   If the city is unable to locate the property owner within ten days
of the declaration of public health nuisance, the city is authorized to proceed
in a prompt manner to initiate the on-site assessment and clean-up.
      (3)   The city may abate the nuisance by removing the hazardous structure
or building or otherwise according to M.S. Chapter 463, as may be amended from
time to time.
      (4)   If the city abates the public health nuisance, in addition to any
other legal remedy, the city may recover its costs pursuant to law or may
assess its costs against the affected property.
   (H)   Authority to modify or remove declaration of public nuisance.
      (1)   The Buildings Official is authorized to modify the declaration
conditions or remove the declaration of public health nuisance.
      (2)   The modifications or removal of the declaration shall only occur
after documentation from qualified environmental to cleaning firm stating that
the health and safety risks, including those to neighbors and potential
dwelling occupants, are sufficiently abated or corrected to allow safe
occupancy of the dwelling.
(Ord. 307, Second Series, passed 8-10-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
SHADE TREE DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION
§ 91.20 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   The city has determined that the health of oak and elm trees is threatened
by fatal diseases known as oak wilt and Dutch Elm Disease. It has further
determined that the loss of oak and elm trees located on public and private
property would substantially depreciate the value of property and impair the
safety, good order, general welfare and convenience of the public. It is
declared to be the intention of the Council to control and prevent the spread
of these diseases, and provide for the removal of dead or diseased trees, as
nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 10.20)
§ 91.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   Any living or standing tree infected to any degree with a shade
tree disease; or
      (2)   Any logs, branches, stumps or other parts of any dead or dying
tree, so infected, unless the parts have been fully burned or treated under the
direction of the Tree Inspector.
   SHADE TREE DISEASE. Dutch Elm Disease or oak wilt disease.
   TREE INSPECTOR. The Public Works Director or other employee of the city as
the Council may designate and who shall thereafter qualify.
(Prior Code, § 10.20)
§ 91.22 SCOPE AND ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   M.S. §§ 89.53 et seq., as may be amended from time to time, is hereby
adopted by reference, together with the rules and regulations of the State
Commissioner of Agriculture relating to shade tree
diseases; provided that, this section shall supersede such statutes, rules and
regulations, only to the extent of inconsistencies.
(Prior Code, § 10.20)
§ 91.23 UNLAWFUL ACT.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or permit upon premises
owned by him or her or upon public property where he or she has the duty of
tree maintenance, any nuisance, as herein defined.
(Prior Code, § 10.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.24 INSPECTION AND DIAGNOSIS.
   It is the power and duty of the Tree Inspector to enter upon public or
private property, at any reasonable time, for the purpose of inspecting for,
and diagnosing, shade tree disease. In cases of suspected shade tree disease
and, in performance of his or her duties, the Tree Inspector may remove the
specimens, samples and biopsies as may be necessary or desirable for diagnosis.
(Prior Code, § 10.20)
§ 91.25 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   Abatement of a nuisance, defined herein, shall be by spraying, removing,
burning or otherwise effectively treating the infected tree or wood to prevent
spread of shade tree disease. The abatement procedures shall be carried out in
accordance with current technical and expert methods and plans as may be
designed by the Commissioner of Agriculture of the state. The city shall
establish specifications for tree removal and disposal methods consistent
therewith.
(Prior Code, § 10.20)
§ 91.26 REMOVAL OF INFECTED TREES AND WOOD.
   (A)   Whenever the Tree Inspector finds with reasonable certainty that the
infection, or danger of infection, exists in any tree or wood on any public or
private property, he or she shall proceed as follows.
      (1)   If the Tree Inspector finds that the danger of infection of other
trees is not imminent because of dormancy of shade tree disease, he or she
shall make a written report of his or her finding to the Council which shall
proceed by:
         (a)   Abating the nuisance as a public improvement under M.S. Chapter
429, as may be amended from time to time; or
         (b)   Abating the nuisance as provided in division (B) below.
      (2)   If the Tree Inspector finds that danger of infection of other trees
is imminent, he or she shall notify the owner of the property, or the abutting
property, as the case may be, by certified mail that the nuisance will be
abated within a specified time, not less than ten days from the date of mailing
of the notice. The Tree Inspector shall immediately report the action to the
Council and, after the expiration of the time limited by the notice, he or she
may abate the nuisance.
      (3)   If the Tree Inspector finds, with reasonable certainty, that
immediate action is required to prevent the spread of shade tree disease, he or
she may proceed to abate the nuisance forthwith. He or she shall report the
action immediately to the Council and to the abutting property owner or to the
owner of the property where the nuisance is located.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the Tree Inspector’s report required by division (A)
(1) above, the Council shall, by resolution, order the nuisance abated. Before
action is taken on the resolution, the Council shall publish notice of its
intention to meet to consider taking action to abate the nuisance. This notice
shall be mailed to affected property owners and published once no less than one
week prior to the meeting. The notice shall state the time and place of the
meeting, the streets affected, action proposed, the estimated cost of the
abatement and the proposed basis of assessment, if any, of costs. At the
hearing or adjournment thereof, the Council shall hear property owners with
reference to the scope and desirability of the proposed project. The Council
shall thereafter adopt a resolution confirming the original resolution with
modifications as it considers desirable and provide for the doing of the work
by day labor or by contract.
   (C)   The Tree Inspector shall keep a record of the costs of abatements done
under this section and shall report monthly to the City Administrator all work
done for which assessments are to be made stating and certifying the
description of the land, lots, parcels involved and the amount chargeable to
each.
   (D)   On or before September 1 of each year, the City Administrator shall
list the total unpaid charges for each abatement against each separate lot or
parcel to which they are attributable under this section. The Council may then
spread the charges or any portion thereof against the property involved as a
special assessment under M.S. § 429.101, as may be amended from time to time,
and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County Auditor and
collection the following year along with current taxes.
   (E)   No damage shall be awarded the owner for destruction of any tree, wood
or part thereof pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 10.20)
§ 91.27 SPRAYING TREES.
   (A)   Whenever the Tree Inspector determines that any tree or wood is
infected or threatened with infection, he or she may spray or treat all nearby
high value trees with an effective concentrate or
fungicide or both. Activities authorized by this section shall be conducted in
accordance with technical and expert opinions and plans of the Commissioner of
Agriculture and under the supervision of the Commissioner and his or her agents
whenever possible.
   (B)   The notice and assessment provisions of §
91.26 apply to spraying and treatment operations conducted under this section.
(Prior Code, § 10.20)
§ 91.28 TRANSPORTING WOOD PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to transport elm wood, including elm firewood,
with bark intact into or through the city, or into or through any designated
“disease control area” as defined by M.S. §§ 89.53 et seq., as may be amended
from time to time. This prohibition shall not apply to movement of the wood
pursuant to an approved wood disposal or utilization program authorized by M.S.
§ 18.023, as may be amended from time to time, or to transportation of elm wood
intended for industrial use not to include firewood; provided, the
transportation of elm logs for industrial use continues without interruption/
through the city or “disease control area” to their intended destination lying
outside the city and “disease control area”.
(Prior Code, § 10.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.29 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the Tree
Inspector while he or she is engaged in the performance of duties imposed by
this section.
(Prior Code, § 10.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.30 ADDITIONAL DUTIES OF TREE INSPECTOR.
   It is the additional duty of the Tree Inspector to coordinate, under the
direction and control of the Council, all activities of the city relating to
the control and prevention of shade tree disease. He or she shall recommend to
the Council the details of a program for the control of the diseases, and
perform the duties incident to such a program adopted by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 10.20)
§ 91.31 DISEASED TREES IN STREETS.
   The rights, duties and responsibilities of property owners set forth in this
subchapter shall be equally applicable to, and binding upon, abutting property
owners with tree maintenance responsibilities under §§
90.060 through
90.064 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 10.20)
§ 91.32 SUBSIDIES.
   The duty of any property owner to bear the cost of removing or maintaining
trees, whether by private contract or assessment, shall be subject to a subsidy
policy, if any, established by the city for the treatment or removal of trees
infected with shade tree disease.
(Prior Code, § 10.20)
PUBLIC PROPERTY OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.45 GENERALLY.
   It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit, display or offer for sale,
any fence, goods or other obstructions upon, over, across or under any public
property without first having obtained a written permit from the Council, and
then only in compliance in all respects with the terms and conditions of the
permit, and taking precautionary measures for the protection of the public. An
electrical cord or device of any kind is hereby included, but not by way of
limitation, within the definition of an obstruction.
(Prior Code, § 10.24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.46 FIRES.
   It is unlawful for any person to build or maintain a fire upon public
property.
(Prior Code, § 10.24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.47 DUMPING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on public property any
nails, dirt, glass or glassware, cans, discarded cloth or clothing, metal
scraps, garbage, leaves, grass or tree limbs, paper or paper products, shreds
or rubbish, oil, grease or other petroleum products, or to empty any water
containing salt or other injurious chemicals thereon. It is a violation of this
subchapter to place or store any building materials or waste resulting from
building construction or demolition on public property without first having
obtained a written permit from the Council.
(Prior Code, § 10.24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.48 SIGNS AND OTHER STRUCTURES.
   It is unlawful for any person to place or maintain a sign, advertisement or
other structure on public property without first having obtained a written
permit from the Council.
(Prior Code, § 10.24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.49 SNOW OR ICE ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person not acting under a contract with the city to
dump snow or ice on public property.
(Prior Code, § 10.24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.50 CONTINUING VIOLATION.
   Each day that any person continues in violation of this subchapter shall be
a separate offense and punishable as such.
(Prior Code, § 10.24)
§ 91.51 CONDITIONS.
   Before granting any permit under any of the provisions of this section, the
Council may impose the insurance or bonding conditions thereon as it,
considering the projected danger to public or private property or to persons,
deems proper for safeguarding the persons and property. The insurance or bond
shall also protect the city from any suit, action or cause of action arising by
reason of the obstruction.
(Prior Code, § 10.24)
AUTOMOBILES AND VEHICLES
§ 91.65 PARKING MANUFACTURED HOMES AND RECREATIONAL CAMPING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. The terms MANUFACTURED HOME and RECREATIONAL CAMPING
VEHICLE shall mean and include the following definitions.
      CAMPING TRAILER. A folding structure, mounted on wheels and designed for
travel, recreation and vacation uses.
      MOTOR HOME. A portable, temporary dwelling to be used for travel,
recreation and vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled
vehicle.
      PICK-UP COACH. A structure designed to be mounted on a truck chassis for
use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation.
      TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and
vacation uses.
   (B)   Unlawful acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to park a manufactured home or
recreational camping vehicle upon public or private property for human
habitation except in a licensed manufactured home park.
      (2)   It is unlawful, after 10-1-1994, for any person to park or store a
manufactured home or recreational vehicle in the setback area of any property
in residential areas for more than 72 hours.
(Prior Code, § 10.36) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.66 ABANDONING A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   It is unlawful for any person to abandon a motor vehicle on any public or
private property without the consent of the person in control of the property.
For the purpose of this subchapter, a MOTOR VEHICLE is as defined in M.S.
Chapter 169, as may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 10.37) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see §
92.01
CHAPTER 92: ABANDONED, UNCLAIMED AND EXCESS PROPERTY
Section
   
92.01   Abandoned vehicles
   
92.02   Unclaimed property; disposal
   
92.03   Excess property; disposal
   
92.04   Persons who may not purchase
§ 92.01 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle as defined in M.S. Chapter 169,
as may be amended from time to time, that has remained for a period of more
than 48 hours on public property illegally or lacking vital component parts, or
has remained for a period of more than 48 hours on private property without the
consent of the person in control of the property, or in an inoperable condition
such that it has no substantial potential further use consistent with its usual
function unless it is kept in an enclosed garage or storage building. It shall
also mean a motor vehicle voluntarily surrendered by its owner to and accepted
by the city. A classic car or pioneer car, as defined in M.S. Chapter 168, as
may be amended from time to time, shall not be considered an ABANDONED MOTOR
VEHICLE within the meaning of this section. Vehicles on the premises of junk
yards or automobile graveyards, which are licensed and maintained in accordance
with the city code, shall not be considered abandoned motor vehicles within the
meaning of this section.
      VITAL COMPONENT PARTS. Those parts of a motor vehicle that are essential
to the mechanical functioning of the vehicle, including, but not limited to,
the motor, drive train and wheels.
   (B)   Custody. The city may take into custody and impound any abandoned
motor vehicle.
   (C)   Immediate sale. When an abandoned motor vehicle is more than seven
model years of age, is lacking vital component parts and does not display a
license plate currently valid in the state or any other state or foreign
country, it shall immediately be eligible for sale at public auction and shall
not be subject to the notification, reclamation or title provisions of this
section.
   (D)   Notice.
      (1)   When an abandoned motor vehicle does not fall within the provisions
of division (C) above, the city shall give notice of the taking within ten
days. The notice shall set forth the date and place of the taking, the year,
make, model and serial number of the abandoned motor vehicle, if the
information can be reasonably obtained, and the place where the vehicle is
being held, shall inform the owner and any lien holders of their right to
reclaim the vehicle under division (E) below, and shall state that failure of
the owner or lien holder to exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle and
contents shall be deemed a waiver by them of all rights, title and interest in
the vehicle and a consent to the sale of the vehicle and contents at a public
auction pursuant to division (F) below.
      (2)   The notice shall be sent by mail to the registered owner, if any,
of the abandoned motor vehicle and to all readily identifiable lien holders of
record. If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identity
and address of the registered owner and all lien holders, the notice shall be
published once in the official newspaper. Published notices may be grouped
together for convenience and economy.
   (E)   Right to reclaim.
      (1)   The owner or any lien holder of an abandoned motor vehicle shall
have a right to reclaim the vehicle from the city upon payment of all towing
and storage charges resulting from taking the vehicle into custody within 15
days after the date of the notice required by this section.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair any lien of a
garage keeper under the laws of this state, or the right of the lien holder to
foreclose. For the purposes of this division (E), GARAGE KEEPER is an operator
of a parking place or establishment, an operator of a motor vehicle storage
facility or an operator of an establishment for the servicing, repair or
maintenance of motor vehicles.
   (F)   Public sale.
      (1)   An abandoned motor vehicle and contents taken into custody and not
reclaimed under division (E) above shall be sold to the highest bidder at
public auction or sale, following one notice published at least seven days
prior to the auction or sale. The purchaser shall be given a receipt in a form
prescribed by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles which shall be sufficient title
to dispose of the vehicle. The receipt shall also entitle the purchaser to
register the vehicle and receive a certificate of title, free and clear of all
liens and claims of ownership. Before a vehicle is issued a new certificate of
title, it must receive a motor vehicle safety check.
      (2)   From the proceeds of the sale of an abandoned motor vehicle, the
city shall reimburse itself for the cost of towing, preserving and storing the
vehicle, and all administrative, notice and publication costs incurred pursuant
to this section. Any remainder from the proceeds of a sale shall be held for
the owner of the vehicle or entitled lien holder for 90 days and then shall be
deposited in the General Fund of the city.
   (G)   Contracts and disposal.
      (1)   The city may contract with any qualified person for collection,
storage, incineration, volume reduction, transportation or other services
necessary to prepare abandoned motor vehicles and other scrap metal for
recycling or other methods of disposal.
      (2)   Where the city enters into a contract with a person duly licensed
by the State Pollution Control Agency, the Agency shall review the contract to
determine whether it conforms to the Agency’s plan for solid waste disposal. A
contract that does so conform may be approved by the Agency. Where a contract
has been approved, the Agency may reimburse the city for the costs incurred
under the contract which have not been reimbursed.
      (3)   If the city utilizes its own equipment and personnel for disposal
of the abandoned motor vehicle, it shall be entitled to reimbursement for the
cost thereof along with its other costs as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 2.40)
Cross-reference:
   Abandoning a motor vehicle, see §
91.66
§ 92.02 UNCLAIMED PROPERTY; DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Definition. The term ABANDONED PROPERTY means tangible or intangible
property that has lawfully come into the possession of the city in the course
of municipal operations, remains unclaimed by the owner, and has been in the
possession of the city for at least 60 days and has been declared such by a
resolution of the Council.
   (B)   Preliminary notice. If the City Administrator knows the identity and
whereabouts of the owner, he or she shall serve written notice upon him at
least 30 days prior to a declaration of abandonment by the Council. If the city
acquired possession from a prior holder, the identity and whereabouts of whom
are known by the City Administrator notice shall also be served upon him or
her. The notice shall describe the property and state that unless it is claimed
and proof of ownership, or entitlement to possession established, the matter of
declaring it abandoned property will be brought to the attention of the Council
after the expiration of 30 days from the date of the notice.
   (C)   Notice and sale. Upon adoption of a resolution declaring certain
property to be abandoned property, the City Administrator shall publish a
notice thereof describing the same, together with the names (if known) and
addresses (if known) of prior owners and holders thereof, and including a brief
description of the property. The text of the notice shall also state the time,
place and manner of sale of all property, except cash and negotiables. The
notice shall be published once at least three weeks prior to sale. Sale shall
be made to the highest bidder at public auction or sale conducted in the manner
directed by the Council in its resolution declaring property abandoned and
stated in the notice.
   (D)   Fund and claims thereon. All proceeds from the sale shall be paid into
the General Fund of the city and expenses thereof paid therefrom. The former
owner, if he or she makes claim within eight months from the date of
publication of the notice herein provided and, upon application and
satisfactory proof of ownership, may be paid the amount of cash or negotiables
or, in the case of property sold, the amount received therefor, less a pro rata
share of the expenses of storage, publication of notice and sale expenses, but
without interest. The payment shall be also made from the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 2.40)
§ 92.03 EXCESS PROPERTY; DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Declaration of surplus and authorizing sale of property. The City
Administrator may, from time to time, recommend to the Council that certain
personal property (chattels) owned by the city is no longer needed for a
municipal purpose and should be sold. By action of the Council, the property
shall be declared surplus, the value estimated and the City Administrator
authorized to dispose of the property in the manner stated herein.
   (B)   Surplus property with a total estimated value of less than $100. The
City Administrator may sell surplus property with a total value of less than
$100 through negotiated sale.
   (C)   Surplus property with a total estimated value between $100 and $500.
The City Administrator shall offer for public sale, to the highest bidder,
surplus property with a total estimated value of from $100 to $500. Notice of
the public sale shall be given stating time and place of sale and generally
describing the property to be sold at least ten days prior to the date of sale
either by publication once in the official newspaper, or by posting in a
conspicuous place in the City Hall at the City Administrator’s option. The sale
shall be by auction.
   (D)   Surplus property with a total estimated value over $500. The City
Administrator shall offer for public sale, to the highest bidder, surplus
property with a total estimated value over $500. Notice of the public sale
shall be given stating time and place of sale and generally describing property
to be sold at least ten days prior to the date of sale by publication once in
the official newspaper. The sale shall be to the person submitting the highest
bid.
   (E)   Receipts from sales of surplus property. All receipts from sales of
surplus property under this section shall be placed in the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 2.40)
§ 92.04 PERSONS WHO MAY NOT PURCHASE.
   (A)   No employee of the city who is a member of the administrative staff,
department head, a member of the Council or an advisor serving the city in a
professional capacity, may be a purchaser of property under this section. Other
city employees may be purchasers if they are not directly involved in the sale,
if they are the highest responsible bidder, and if at least one week’s
published or posted notice of sale is given.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to be a purchaser of property under this
section if the purchase is prohibited by the terms of this section.
(Prior Code, § 2.40) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: ANIMALS
Section
Animals and Fowl
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Keeping
   
93.03   Animals in transit
   
93.04   Treatment
   
93.05   Housing
   
93.06   Trespassing
   
93.07   Cats running at large
Dog Licensing and Registration
   
93.20   Definitions
   
93.21   License required
   
93.22   Dogs under restraint
   
93.23   Obligation to prevent nuisance; number of animals allowed
   
93.24   Seizure by citizen
   
93.25   Impoundment
   
93.26   Confinement of certain dogs
   
93.27   Owner obligation for proper care
   
93.28   Quarantine of certain dogs
   
93.29   Dangerous dogs; registration
   
93.30   Dangerous dogs; requirements
   
93.31   Proceedings for destruction of dangerous dogs
   
93.32   Summary destruction of certain dogs
   
93.33   Kennels
   
93.34   Dogs belonging to nonresidents
   
93.35   Dogs disturbing the peace
   
93.36   Immobilization of dogs
   
93.37   Other unlawful acts
   
93.38   State statutes
 
   
93.99   Penalty
ANIMALS AND FOWL
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMALS. Includes farm animals and all other animals, reptiles and feathered
birds or fowl, except dogs, cats, gerbils, hamsters and caged household birds.
   FARM ANIMALS. Cattle, horses, mules, sheep, goats, swine, ponies, ducks,
geese, turkeys, chickens, guinea hens, honey bees and mink.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 93.02 KEEPING.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor any animal, not in transit,
except:
   (A)   Farm animals kept as part of an agricultural operation established
prior to six years from the effective date of this section;
   (B)   Animals kept in a laboratory for scientific or experimental purposes;
or
   (C)   Animals kept in an animal hospital or clinic for treatment by a
licensed veterinarian.
(Prior Code, § 10.06) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 ANIMALS IN TRANSIT.
   It is unlawful for any person to transport animals unless they are:
   (A)   Confined within a vehicle, cage or other means of conveyance;
   (B)   Farm animals being transported in the agricultural portion of the
city; or
   (C)   Restrained by means of bridles, halters, ropes or other means of
individual restraint.
(Prior Code, § 10.06) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 TREATMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to treat any animal, as herein defined, or any
other animal, in a cruel or inhumane manner.
(Prior Code, § 10.06) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 HOUSING.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep any animal, as herein defined, or any
other animal, in any structure infested by rodents, vermin, flies or insects,
or inadequate for protection against the elements.
(Prior Code, § 10.06) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 TRESPASSING.
   It is unlawful for any person to herd, drive or ride any animal over and
upon any grass, turf, boulevard. City park, cemetery, garden or lot without
specific permission therefor from the owner.
(Prior Code, § 10.06) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 CATS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Running at large prohibited. It is unlawful for the owner of any cat
to permit such animal to run at large. Any cat shall be deemed to be running at
large with the permission of the owner unless it is on a durable leash secured
to an object which it cannot move and on the premises of the owner, on a leash
and under the control of an accompanying person of suitable age and discretion,
or is confined to the residence of the owner. Any cat running at large is
hereby declared to be a nuisance subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Animal pound. Any cat found in the city running at large, shall be
placed in the animal pound, and an accurate record of the time of such
placement shall be kept on each cat. Every cat so placed in the animal pound
shall be kept for redemption by the owner for a period of not less than five
days. A “regular business day” is one during which the city offices are open
for business to the public. Impoundment records shall be preserved for a
minimum of six months and shall show:
      (1)   The description of the animal by species, sex, approximate age, and
other distinguishing traits;
      (2)   The location at which the animal was seized;
      (3)   The date of seizure;
      (4)   The name and address of the person from whom any animal three
months of age or over was received; and
      (5)   The name and address of the person to whom any animal three months
of age or over was transferred. If unclaimed, such cat shall be humanely
destroyed and the carcass disposed of, unless it is requested by a licensed
educational or scientific institution under authority of M.S. § 35.71, as it
may be amended from time to time, or a suitable home is found for the cat.
   (C)   Notice of impoundment. Upon the impounding of any cat, the owner shall
be notified, or if the owner is unknown, written notice shall be posted for
three days in two or more conspicuous places in the city a notice of
impoundment describing the cat and the place and time of taking.
   (D)   Release from animal pound. Cats shall be released to their owners upon
payment of an impounding fee and a boarding fee for each day or part thereof
after the first day for which the cat was impounded, both of which fees shall
be set by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   Persons in possession. Any person who feeds or houses a cat
temporarily or permanently shall have all of the duties and bear the
responsibilities of an owner under the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009) Penalty, see §
93.99
DOG LICENSING AND REGISTRATION
§ 93.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY.  An agency of the state, county, municipality, or
other governmental subdivision of the state which is responsible for animal
control operations in its jurisdiction.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. A dog which has:
      (1)   Without provocation, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a human
being on public or private property;
      (2)   Killed a domestic animal without provocation while off the owner’s
property; or
      (3)   Been found to be potentially dangerous, and after the owner has
notice that the dog is potentially dangerous, the dog aggressively bites,
attacks, or endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
   DOG. Both male and female and includes any animal of the dog kind.
   GREAT BODILY HARM.  Has the meaning given it under M.S. § 609.02, Subd. 8:
Bodily injury which creates a high probability of death, or which causes
serious permanent disfigurement, or which causes a permanent or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ or other serious
bodily harm.
   HABITUALLY OR FREQUENTLY BARK OR CRY. Barking or crying intermittently for
at least ten minutes, which barking or crying is audible off the premises where
the dog is located at the time of the incident.
   KENNEL. Any person engaged in the business of breeding, buying, selling or
boarding dogs; provided, that such person customarily owns or boards more than
three dogs over six months of age.
   OFFICER. Any police officer of the city or persons designated by the City
Manager to assist in the enforcement of this chapter. Such persons shall have
police powers insofar as is necessary to enforce this chapter, and no person
shall interfere with, hinder or molest them in the exercise of such powers.
   OWN. To have a property interest in, or to, harbor, feed, board, keep or
possess.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, or department
possessing, harboring, keeping, having an interest in, or having care, custody,
or control of a dog.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.  Any dog that:
      (1)   When unprovoked, inflicts bites on a human or domestic animal on
public or private property;
      (2)   When unprovoked, chases or approaches a person, including a person
on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public or private property,
other than the dog owner’s property, in an apparent attitude of attack; or
      (3)   Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
   POUND. Any premises designated by the City Council for the purpose of
impounding and caring for dogs held under the authority of this chapter.
   PROPER ENCLOSURE.  Securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and
providing protection from the elements for the dog. A PROPER ENCLOSURE does not
include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure that
would allow the dog to exit of its own volition, or any house or structure in
which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the only
obstacles that prevent the dog from exiting.
   PROVOCATION.  An act that an adult could reasonably expect may cause a dog
to attack or bite.
   RESTRAINT. A dog, less than 50 pounds, shall be deemed to be under restraint
if it is on the premises of its owner or if accompanied by a responsible person
and under that person’s effective control. A dog of 50 pounds or more shall be
deemed to be under restraint if it is in a kennel, an enclosed or fenced yard,
or if on a leash accompanied by a responsible person.
   SUBSTANTIAL BODILY HARM.  Has the meaning given it under M.S. § 609.02,
Subd. 7a, as it may be amended from time to time: Bodily injury which involves
a temporary but substantial disfigurement, or which causes a temporary but
substantial loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ,
or which causes a fracture of any bodily member.
   VICIOUS DOG. Any dog which has a propensity or tendency towards acts which
might endanger the safety of persons or property. This definition is not
limited to biting dogs, but includes those dogs which have a natural fierceness
or disposition to mischief.
(Prior Code, § 10.05) (Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009)
§ 93.21 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall own, keep, harbor or have custody of any dog over six months
of age without first obtaining a license therefore from the City Administrator
or his or her agent. Applications for license shall be made on forms prescribed
by the City Administrator.
   (A)   Requirements for license.
      (1)   Fee. Licenses shall be valid for one year. Licenses shall expire on
May 31 and renewed licenses shall run from June 1 for one year as provided
above. Application for license renewal, accompanied by a veterinarian’s
certificate, shall be made at least 30 days prior to expiration of the license.
      (2)   Rabies immunization required. Every application for a license shall
be accompanied by a certificate from a qualified veterinarian showing that the
dog to be licensed has been given a vaccination against rabies within the time
hereinafter specified. The owner shall keep the rabies vaccination current for
any dog licensed hereunder and shall furnish proof thereof upon request to the
city.
   (B)   Adoption of fees. All fees for the licensing, impounding and
maintenance of dog, including penalties for late application, may be fixed and
determined by the Council, adopted by resolution, and uniformly enforced. Such
fees may from time to time be amended by the Council by resolution. A copy of
the resolution setting forth currently effective fees shall be kept on file in
the office of the City Administrator and open to inspection during regular
business hours.
   (C)   Tag required. All licensed dogs shall wear a collar and have a tag
firmly affixed thereto evidencing a current license. A duplicate for a lost tag
may be issued by the city upon presentation of the receipt showing the payment
of the duplicate license fee. Tags shall not be transferable, and no
refund shall be made on any license fee because of leaving the city or death of
the dog before the expiration of the license.
(Prior Code, § 10.05) (Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009) Penalty, see
§
93.99
§ 93.22 DOGS UNDER RESTRAINT.
   All dogs shall be kept under restraint.
(Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009)
§ 93.23 OBLIGATION TO PREVENT NUISANCE; NUMBER OF ANIMALS ALLOWED.
   It shall be the obligation and responsibility of the owner or custodian of
any animal in the city, whether permanently or temporarily therein, to prevent
such animal from committing any act which constitutes a nuisance. It shall be
considered a nuisance for any animal to habitually or frequently bark or cry,
to frequent school grounds, parks, or public beaches, to chase vehicles, to
molest or annoy any person if such person is not on the property of the owner
or custodian of such animal, or to molest, defile or destroy any property,
public or private. Because keeping more than four cats and/or dogs on the same
premises, unless that premises is a licensed kennel, is subject to great abuse,
causing discomfort to persons in the area by way of smell, noise, hazard, and
general aesthetic depreciation, the keeping of more than four cats and/or dogs
(not more than three of which can be dogs), on the premises for more than four
consecutive days is hereby declared to be a nuisance; except that a litter of
puppies or kittens may be kept for a period of six months before that keeping
shall be deemed a nuisance. Failure on the part of the owner or custodian to
prevent such animal from committing an act of nuisance shall be subject to the
penalty hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.24 SEIZURE BY CITIZEN.
   It is lawful for any person to seize and impound a dog so found running at
large and shall within six hours thereafter notify the Poundmaster of the
seizure. It shall be the duty of the Poundmaster to place the dog in the city
pound. If the name of the owner of the dog so seized is known to the person who
first takes the dog into custody, he or she shall inform the Poundmaster of the
name of the owner and the address if known.
(Prior Code, § 10.05) (Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009) Penalty, see
§
93.99
§ 93.25 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Unrestrained dogs may be taken by any “officer” as hereinbefore defined and
impounded in an animal shelter and there confined in a humane manner. Impounded
dogs shall be kept for five days unless reclaimed prior to that time by their
owner as provided hereafter.
   (A)   Notice of impoundment. Upon taking up and impounding any dog, the
Poundmaster shall, within one day thereafter, post for three days in two or
more conspicuous places in the city, a notice of impounding and mail a copy of
these to the owner if the name and address of the owner is known.
   (B)   Redemption. Any dog may be reclaimed from the animal shelter by its
owner within the time specified in the notice by the payment to the
Administrator of the license fee with an impounding fee and a boarding fee for
each day or fraction of a day that the dog has been confined as the cost of
boarding, both of which fees shall be set by resolution of the City Council.
Notwithstanding this section, the owner shall remain subject to all other
penalties contained in this chapter.
   (C)   Disposition of unclaimed dogs. Any dog which is not claimed within
five days after impounding, may be sold with the proceeds applied to the cost
of confinement and sale of the dog, and the balance returned to the city. If,
after making reasonable efforts to sell the dog, no sale is obtained, the dog
may be humanely destroyed or given away.
   (D)   Permissible return of unrestrained dog. If an animal is found
unrestrained and its owner can be identified and located, such animal need not
be impounded but may, instead, be taken to the owner. In such case, however,
proceedings may be taken against the owner for violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009)
§ 93.26 CONFINEMENT OF CERTAIN DOGS.
   Every female animal in heat shall be confined in a building or other secure
enclosure, in such manner that such female animal cannot come into contact with
another animal, except for planned breeding.
(Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.27 OWNER OBLIGATION FOR PROPER CARE.
   No owner shall fail to provide any animal with sufficient good and wholesome
food and water, proper shelter and protection from the weather, veterinary care
when needed to prevent suffering, and with humane care and treatment. No person
shall beat, treat cruelly, torment or otherwise abuse any animal, or cause or
permit any dogfight. No owner of a dog shall abandon such animal.
(Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.28 QUARANTINE OF CERTAIN DOGS.
   Any dog which bites a person shall be quarantined for such time as may be
directed by the City Health Officer. During quarantine, the animal shall be
securely confined and kept from contact with any other animal. At the
discretion of the Health Officer, the quarantine may be on the premises of the
owner; however, if the Health Officer requires other confinement, the owner
shall surrender the animal
for the quarantine period to an animal shelter or shall, at the owner’s own
expense, place it in a veterinary hospital.
(Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009)
§ 93.29 DANGEROUS DOGS; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Requirement. No person may own a dangerous dog in this city unless the
dog is registered as provided in this section.
   (B)   Registration. An animal control authority shall issue a certificate of
registration to the owner of a dangerous dog if the owner presents sufficient
evidence that:
      (1)   A proper enclosure exists for the dangerous dog and a posting on
the premises with a clearly visible warning sign that there is a dangerous dog
on the property, including a warning symbol to inform children;
      (2)   A surety bond issued by a surety company authorized to conduct
business in this state in a form acceptable to the animal control authority in
the sum of at least $300,000, payable to any person injured by the dangerous
dog, or a policy of liability insurance issued by an insurance company
authorized to conduct business in this state in the amount of at least
$300,000, insuring the owner for any personal injuries inflicted by the
dangerous dog;
      (3)   The owner has paid an annual fee of not more than $500, in addition
to any regular dog licensing fees, to obtain a certificate of registration for
a dangerous dog under this section; and
      (4)   The owner has had microchip identification implanted in the
dangerous dog as required under M.S. § 347.515, as it may be amended from time
to time.
   (C)   Warning symbol. If an animal control authority issues a certificate of
registration to the owner of a dangerous dog pursuant to division (B), the
animal control authority must provide, for posting on the owner’s property, a
copy of a warning symbol to inform children that there is a dangerous dog on
the property. The warning symbol must be the uniform symbol provided by the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The Commissioner shall provide the number of
copies of the warning symbol requested by the animal control authority and
shall charge the animal control authority the actual cost of the warning
symbols received. The animal control authority may charge the registrant a
reasonable fee to cover its administrative costs and the cost of the warning
symbol.
   (D)   Fee. The animal control authority may charge the owner an annual fee,
in addition to any regular dog licensing fees, to obtain a certificate of
registration for a dangerous dog under this section.
   (E)   Dangerous dog designation review. Beginning six months after a dog is
declared a dangerous dog, an owner may request annually that the animal control
authority review the designation. The owner must provide evidence that the
dog’s behavior has changed due to the dog’s age, neutering, environment,
completion of obedience training that includes modification of aggressive
behavior, or other factors. If
the animal control authority finds sufficient evidence that the dog’s behavior
has changed, the authority may rescind the dangerous dog designation.
   (F)   Law enforcement; exemption. The provisions of this section do not
apply to dangerous dogs used by law enforcement officials for police work.
   (G)   Exemption. Dogs may not be declared dangerous if the threat, injury,
or damage was sustained by a person:
      (1)   Who was committing, at the time, a willful trespass or other tort
upon the premises occupied by the owner of the dog;
      (2)   Who was provoking, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog or
who can be shown to have repeatedly, in the past, provoked, tormented, abused,
or assaulted the dog; or
      (3)   Who was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   (H)   Tag. A dangerous dog registered under this section must have a
standardized, easily identifiable tag identifying the dog as dangerous and
containing the uniform dangerous dog symbol, affixed to the dog’s collar at all
times.
(Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.30 DANGEROUS DOGS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An owner of a dangerous dog shall keep the dog, while on the owner’s
property, in a proper enclosure. If the dog is outside the proper enclosure,
the dog must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or leash and
under the physical restraint of a responsible person. The muzzle must be made
in a manner that will prevent the dog from biting any person or animal but that
will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration.
   (B)   An owner of a dangerous dog must renew the registration of the dog
annually until the dog is deceased. If the dog is removed from the
jurisdiction, it must be registered as a dangerous dog in its new jurisdiction.
   (C)   An owner of a dangerous dog must notify the animal control authority
in writing of the death of the dog or its transfer to a new location where the
dog will reside within 30 days of the death or transfer, and must, if requested
by the animal control authority, execute an affidavit under oath setting forth
either the circumstances of the dog’s death and disposition or the complete
name, address, and telephone number of the person to whom the dog has been
transferred or the address where the dog has been relocated.
   (D)   An animal control authority shall require a dangerous dog to be
sterilized at the owner’s expense. If the owner does not have the animal
sterilized within 30 days, the animal control authority shall seize the dog and
have it sterilized at the owner’s expense.
   (E)   A person who owns a dangerous dog and who rents property from another
where the dog will reside must disclose to the property owner prior to entering
the lease agreement and at the time of any lease renewal that the person owns a
dangerous dog that will reside at the property.
   (F)   A person who transfers ownership of a dangerous dog must notify the
new owner that the animal control authority has identified the dog as
dangerous. The current owner must also notify the animal control authority in
writing of the transfer of ownership and provide the animal control authority
with the new owner’s name, address, and telephone number.
(Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.31 PROCEEDINGS FOR DESTRUCTION OF DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Circumstances. Notwithstanding M.S. §§ 347.51 through 347.55, as it
may be amended from time to time, or other provisions of this code, a dog may
be declared dangerous and destroyed in a proper and humane manner by the animal
control authority if the dog:
      (1)   Inflicted substantial or great bodily harm on a human on public or
private property without provocation;
      (2)   Inflicted multiple bites on a human on public or private property
without provocation;
      (3)   Bit multiple human victims on public or private property in the
same attack without provocation; or
      (4)   Bit a human on public or private property without provocation in an
attack where more than one dog participated in the attack.
   (B)   Hearing requirement. The animal control authority may not destroy the
dog until the dog owner has had the opportunity for a hearing before an
impartial decision maker. The definitions in M.S. § 347.50, as it may be
amended from time to time, and the exemptions under M.S. § 347.51, Subd. 5,
apply to this section.
      (1)   Sworn complaint; issue summons. Upon sworn complaint to a court of
proper jurisdiction that one of the facts set forth in §
93.30(A) exist: The presiding officer of the court shall issue a summons
directed to the owner of the dog commanding such owner to appear before the
court to show cause why the dog should not be seized by any police officer, or
otherwise disposed of in the manner authorized in this chapter.
      (2)   Hearing; court order. Such summons shall be returnable not less
than two nor more than six days from the date thereof and shall be served at
least two days before the time of appearance mentioned therein. Upon such
hearing and finding the facts true as complained of, the court may either order
the dog killed or order the owner or custodian to remove it from the city, or
may order the owner or custodian to keep it confined to a designated place, or
may revoke the owner’s current dog license and specify a period of time during
which the owner will not be permitted to purchase a dog license. If the
owner or custodian violates such order, any police officer may impound any dog
described in such order. The provisions of this section are in addition to and
supplemental to other provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Costs of proceedings. Costs of the proceeding specified by this
section shall be assessed against the owner or custodian of the dog, if the
facts in the complaint are found to be true; or to the complainant, if the
facts are found to be untrue.
(Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009)
§ 93.32 SUMMARY DESTRUCTION OF CERTAIN DOGS.
   Whenever a police officer or a person designated by the City Manager has
reasonable cause to believe that a particular dog presents a clear and
immediate danger to residents of the city because it is infected with rabies
(hydrophobia) or because it is a potentially dangerous dog, the officer, after
making reasonable attempts to impound such dog, may summarily destroy the dog.
(Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009)
§ 93.33 KENNELS.
   No person shall maintain in this city a kennel without securing a license
therefor from the City Council. The license fee shall be as set by resolution
of the City Council.
(Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.34 DOGS BELONGING TO NONRESIDENTS.
   The sections of this subchapter requiring a license shall not apply to
nonresidents of the city; provided, that dogs of such owners shall not be kept
in the city longer than 30 days without a license and shall be kept under
restraint.
(Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009)
§ 93.35 DOGS DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, have in possession, or
harbor any canine which frequently or habitually howls, yelps or barks to the
reasonable annoyance of another person.
(Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.36 IMMOBILIZATION OF DOGS.
   For the purpose of enforcement of this subchapter any peace officer, or
person whose duty is animal control, may use a so-called tranquilizer gun or
other instrument for the purpose of immobilizing and catching a dog.
(Prior Code, § 10.05) (Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009)
§ 93.37 OTHER UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It is unlawful for the owner of any dog to:
   (A)   Fail to have the license tag issued by the city firmly attached to a
collar worn at all times by the licensed dog;
   (B)   Own a dangerous dog;
   (C)   Interfere with any police officer, or other city employee, in the
performance of his or her duty to enforce this subchapter; or
   (D)   Fail to keep his or her dog from barking, howling or whining, so as to
create a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 10.05) (Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009) Penalty, see
§
93.99
§ 93.38 STATE STATUTES.
   M.S. §§ 347.50 through 347.565, as it may be amended from time to time, are
hereby incorporated into this code where they are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   The violation of any provision of §§
93.07 and
93.20 through
93.38 shall be a petty misdemeanor, and a fine of $100.
(Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009)
CHAPTER 94: PUBLIC PARKS
Section
   
94.01   Adoption
   
94.02   Hours
§ 94.01 ADOPTION.
   The Council may, by resolution, adopt and, from time to time, amend rules
and regulations governing public parks. It is unlawful to violate the rules and
regulations as are conspicuously sign-posted in the parks.
(Prior Code, § 10.34) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.02 HOURS.
   It is unlawful for any person to park, be in or remain in, or leave any
vehicle in any park between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the day
following; provided, however, that, this chapter shall not apply to those
vehicles or persons involved in organized activities which are authorized by
permit issued by the city to remain in a park.
(Prior Code, § 10.34) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 95: HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS
Section
   
95.01   Preamble
   
95.02   Unlawful acts and enforcement
   
95.03   Investigation and notice of hearing
   
95.04   Service of notice
   
95.05   Hearing, findings and decision
   
95.06   City to abate
   
95.07   City disposal
   
95.08   Allocation of proceeds and assessment
   
95.09   Failure to abate nuisance on business premises
§ 95.01 PREAMBLE.
   (A)   Private property. The Council finds that accumulation on private
property of unlicensed, unregistered or inoperable motor vehicles, household
furniture, furnishings or appliances, or parts or components thereof, or metal,
wood, glass, paper, rubber, concrete or other material, whether organic or
inorganic, can facilitate the growth or spread of noxious weeds, the nesting
and breeding of rodents, insects and harmful bacteria, and be a threat of fire.
The Council also finds that unless the accumulation is stored in a lawfully
operated junk yard, housed within a lawfully erected building, or in a
container permitted, and the contents disposed of, under provisions of the city
code it is a source of filth, cause of sickness, and an immediate danger to the
health, safety and welfare of persons and property in the city. The Council
finds that if the unauthorized, unwholesome and dangerous accumulation is
permitted to continue to pose a threat it is a hazardous condition and a
nuisance, must be abated, and that this chapter is adopted to protect the
residents of the city and their property and, in addition, to protect the
rights of persons who may be found in violation of its provisions.
ACCUMULATION, as that term is used in this division (A), means prohibited items
in any number or amount.
   (B)   Business premises. The Council finds that accumulation upon premises
to which the public has access or may be exposed of food particles or other
material causing discomfort to patrons, or disrepair of seating, floor
covering, plumbing, heating or electrical facilities, or failure to maintain a
reasonable standard of cleanliness and absence of noxious odors, can facilitate
the nesting and breeding of rodents, insects and harmful bacteria and is a
source of filth, cause of sickness and an immediate danger to the health,
safety and welfare of persons and property in the city. The Council finds that
if the unauthorized, unwholesome and dangerous accumulation is permitted to
continue to pose a threat it is a hazardous
condition and a nuisance, must be abated, and that this chapter is adopted to
protect the residents of the city and their property and, in addition, to
protect the rights of persons who may be harmed in violation of its provisions.
ACCUMULATION, as that term is used in the division (B), means prohibited items
or conditions in any number or amount.
(Prior Code, § 10.35)
§ 95.02 UNLAWFUL ACTS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It is unlawful to park or store any unlicensed, unregistered or
inoperable motor vehicle, household furniture, furnishings or appliances, or
parts or components thereof, or scrap metal, wood, glass, paper, rubber,
concrete or other material, whether organic or inorganic, on private property,
unless the accumulation is stored within a lawfully operated junk yard, housed
within a lawfully erected building, or in a container permitted, and the
contents disposed of, under other provisions of the city code.
   (B)   It is unlawful to permit, on premises to which the public has access
or may be exposed, any accumulation of food particles or other material causing
discomfort to patrons, or disrepair of seating, floor covering, plumbing,
heating or electrical facilities, or failure to maintain a reasonable standard
of cleanliness and absence of noxious odors.
   (C)   As to any provision of this section which constitutes an unlawful act,
and in addition to all of the civil proceedings described in this chapter, each
day that a violation continues, or is permitted to continue, shall constitute a
separate offense in prosecution of the unlawful act.
(Prior Code, § 10.35) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.03 INVESTIGATION AND NOTICE OF HEARING.
   Upon receipt of any complaint of violation of §
95.02, or on its own initiative, but at least annually during the month of May,
the Council shall investigate the premises and if it is found that there is a
hazardous condition and a nuisance on any premises in violation of this
section, the same shall be reported to the City Administrator who shall prepare
a notice of hearing on order to abate nuisance addressed to owners, tenants,
mortgagees and other lien holders, all of whose interests are known to the city
or appear of record, and bearing the legal description of the premises on which
the alleged violation appears. The notice shall state the date, time and place
of hearing and describe the violation in general terms.
(Prior Code, § 10.35)
§ 95.04 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   The notice shall be served at least 20 days before the date of hearing
in the following manner:
      (1)   If the person to whom it is addressed resides in the city, or can
readily be found therein, it shall be served personally on the addressee or
left at his or her residence with a person of suitable age and discretion;
      (2)   Addressees not served personally shall be served by certified mail
at their addresses appearing in records selected by the City Administrator of
the county; and
      (3)   By publication of the notice once in the official newspaper at
least ten days prior to the date of hearing.
   (B)   Inadvertent failure to serve any addressee personally or by certified
mail shall not invalidate the proceedings, but publication shall then suffice.
(Prior Code, § 10.35)
§ 95.05 HEARING, FINDINGS AND DECISION.
   (A)   The hearing shall be held before the Council at a regular or special
meeting and conducted in the same manner as an administrative appeal. All
persons desiring to be heard shall be afforded an opportunity to present
evidence.
   (B)   At any time after the hearing is closed, but at least at its next
regular meeting, the Council shall decide whether or not the item or items
constitute a nuisance in violation of this chapter and direct the drawing and
serving of findings of fact and decision by certified mail on all addressees.
If the Council finds that there is a violation, the decision shall include an
order to abate nuisance and specify the date by which abatement shall be
completed.
   (C)   Estimated value, if any, of all offensive items described in §
95.02(A) shall be included in the evidence and in the findings. VALUE, for the
purpose of this chapter, means the amount of money, in cash, which can be
obtained in a negotiated sale on a known and ready market in the city.
(Prior Code, § 10.35)
§ 95.06 CITY TO ABATE.
   If abatement of the items described in §
95.02(A) is not completed by the date stated in the order to abate nuisance,
the city may enter upon the premises, remove the offending item or items and
clean up the nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 10.35)
§ 95.07 CITY DISPOSAL.
   If the city abates the nuisance, it shall dispose of the items as follows:
   (A)   Any item or items of value shall be sold locally in a negotiated sale;
and/or
   (B)   Items of no value shall be disposed of in a landfill or other site
acceptable to governmental regulatory authority.
(Prior Code, § 10.35)
§ 95.08 ALLOCATION OF PROCEEDS AND ASSESSMENT.
   If the city abates the nuisance all costs thereof, including, but not
limited to, cost of sale, if any, shall be aggregated, sale proceeds deducted,
and the remainder certified as a special assessment.
(Prior Code, § 10.35)
§ 95.09 FAILURE TO ABATE NUISANCE ON BUSINESS PREMISES.
   If the hazardous condition and nuisance described in §
95.02(B) is not abated within the time limited, all present licenses issued by
the city to carry on the business on the premises shall be revoked and no
future license shall be issued therefor until full abatement has been
completed.
(Prior Code, § 10.35)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS; LEISURE
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
114.   SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Applications
   
110.03   Action on application, transfer, termination and duplicate license
   
110.04   Fixing license fees
   
110.05   Carrying or posting licenses
   
110.06   Penalty for property owner
   
110.07   Responsibility of licensee
   
110.08   Conditional licenses
   
110.09   Renewal of licenses
   
110.10   Insurance requirements
   
110.11   Worker’s compensation
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person making an application for a license under this title.
   APPLICATION. A form with blanks or spaces thereon, to be filled in and
completed by the applicant as his or her request for a license, furnished by
the city and uniformly required as a prerequisite to the consideration of the
issuance of a license for a business.
   BOND. A corporate surety document in the form and with the provisions
acceptable and specifically approved by the City Attorney.
   BUSINESS. Any activity, occupation, sale of goods or services, or
transaction that is either licensed or regulated, or both licensed and
regulated, by the terms and conditions of this title.
   LICENSE. A document issued by the city to an applicant permitting him or her
to carry on and transact a business.
   LICENSE FEE. The money paid to the city pursuant to an application and prior
to issuance of a license to transact and carry on a business.
   LICENSEE. An applicant who, pursuant to his or her application, holds a
valid, current, unexpired and unrevoked license from the city for carrying on a
business.
   SALE, SELL and SOLD. All forms of barter and all manner or means of
furnishing merchandise to persons.
(Prior Code, § 6.01)
§ 110.02 APPLICATIONS.
   All applications shall be made as follows.
   (A)   All applications shall be made at the office of the City Administrator
upon forms that have been furnished by the city for such purposes.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided for in this title, all applications must be
subscribed, sworn to and include information as the Council deems necessary
considering the nature of the business for which license application is made.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any applicant to intentionally make a false
statement or omission upon any application form. Any false statement in an
application, or any willful omission to state any information called for on an
application form, shall, upon discovery of the falsehood, work an automatic
refusal of license, or if already issued, shall render any license or permit
issued pursuant thereto, void and of no effect to protect the applicant from
prosecution for violation of this title, or any part hereof.
   (D)   The City Administrator shall, upon receipt of each application
completed in accordance herewith, forthwith investigate the truth of statements
made therein and the moral character and business reputation of each applicant
for license to an extent as he or she deems necessary. For the investigation,
the City Administrator may enlist the aid of the Chief of Police. The Council
shall not consider an application before the investigation has been completed.
   (E)   Applications for renewal licenses may be made in an abbreviated form
as the Council may by resolution adopt.
(Prior Code, § 6.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 ACTION ON APPLICATION, TRANSFER, TERMINATION AND DUPLICATE LICENSE.
   (A)   Granting. The Council may grant any application for the period of the
remainder of the then current calendar year or for the entire ensuing license
year. All applications, including proposed license periods, must be consistent
with this title.
   (B)   Issuing. If an application is approved, the City Administrator shall
forthwith issue a license pursuant thereto in the form prescribed by the
Council, payment of the appropriate license fee, and approval of the bond or
insurance as to form and surety or carrier, if required. All licenses shall be
on a calendar year basis unless otherwise specified herein as to particular
businesses. Unless otherwise herein specified, license fees shall be pro-rated
on the basis of one-twelfth for each calendar month or part thereof remaining
in the then current license year; provided that, for licenses where the fee is
less than $100, a minimum license fee equal to one-half of the annual license
fee shall be charged. Except as to licenses which are specifically city-wide,
licenses shall be valid only at one location and on the premises therein
described.
   (C)   Transfer. A license shall be transferable between persons upon consent
of the Council and payment of the investigation fee, if any. No license shall
be transferable to a different location without prior consent of the Council
and upon payment of the fee for a duplicate license. It is unlawful to make any
transfer in violation of this section.
   (D)   Termination. Licenses shall terminate only by expiration or
revocation.
   (E)   Refusal and revocation. The Council may, for any reasonable cause,
refuse to grant any application or revoke any license. No license shall be
granted to a person of questionable moral character or business reputation.
Before revocation of any license, the Council shall give notice to the licensee
and grant the licensee opportunity to be heard. Notice to be given and the
exact time of hearing shall be stated in the resolution calling for the
hearing. Grounds for revocation may be, but are not limited to, any of the
following:
      (1)   The licensee suffered or permitted illegal acts upon licensed
premises;
      (2)   The licensee had knowledge of the illegal acts but failed to report
the same to police;
      (3)   The licensee failed or refused to cooperate fully with police in
investigating the alleged illegal acts; or
      (4)   The activities of the licensee created a serious danger to public
health, safety or welfare.
   (F)   Duplicate license. Duplicates of all original licenses may be issued
by the City Administrator, without action by the Council, upon licensee’s
affidavit that the original has been lost, and upon payment of a fee in an
amount adopted by resolution of the Council for issuance of the duplicate. All
duplicate licenses shall be clearly marked “DUPLICATE”.
(Prior Code, § 6.03)
§ 110.04 FIXING LICENSE FEES.
   Except as otherwise herein provided, all fees for licenses under this title
shall be fixed and determined by the Council, adopted by resolution, and
uniformly enforced. The license fees may, from
time to time, be amended by the Council by resolution. A copy of the resolution
setting forth currently effective license fees shall be kept on file in the
office of the City Administrator and open to inspection during regular business
hours. For the purpose of fixing the fees, the Council may subdivide and
categorize licenses under a specific license requirement; provided that, any
subdivision or categorization shall be included in the resolution authorized by
this section.
(Prior Code, § 6.04)
§ 110.05 CARRYING OR POSTING LICENSES.
   (A)   All solicitors shall, at all times when so engaged, carry their
license on their persons.
   (B)   All other licensees shall post their licenses in their place of
business near the licensed activity; provided, however, that, in the case of
machine or other device licensing, the city may provide a sticker for the
current license year which shall be affixed to each machine or device requiring
the sticker.
   (C)   All licensees shall display their licenses upon demand by any officer
or citizen.
(Prior Code, § 6.05)
§ 110.06 PENALTY FOR PROPERTY OWNER.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly permit any real property owned or
controlled by him or her to be used, without a license, for any business for
which a license is required by this title.
(Prior Code, § 6.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 RESPONSIBILITY OF LICENSEE.
   The conduct of agents or employees of a licensee, while engaged in
performance of their duties for their principal or employer under the license,
except as to criminal liability therefor, shall be deemed the conduct of the
licensee.
(Prior Code, § 6.07)
§ 110.08 CONDITIONAL LICENSES.
   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, the Council may, upon
a finding of the necessity therefor, place conditions and restrictions upon a
license as it, in its discretion, may deem reasonable and justified.
(Prior Code, § 6.08)
§ 110.09 RENEWAL OF LICENSES.
   Applications for renewal of an existing license shall be made at least 30
days prior to the date of expiration of the license and shall contain
information as is required by the city. This time requirement may be waived by
the Council for good and sufficient cause.
(Prior Code, § 6.09)
§ 110.10 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever insurance is required by a section of this title, after
approval by the Council, but before the license shall issue, the applicant
shall file with the City Administrator a policy or certificate of public
liability insurance showing:
      (1)   The limits are at least as high as required;
      (2)   Coverage is effective for at least the license term approved; and
      (3)   The insurance will not be cancelled or terminated without 30 days’
written notice served upon the City Administrator.
   (B)   Cancellation or termination of the coverage shall be grounds for
license revocation.
(Prior Code, § 6.10)
§ 110.11 WORKER’S COMPENSATION.
   No license to operate a business shall be issued by the city until the
applicant presents acceptable evidence of compliance with the worker’s
compensation insurance coverage requirement of state statutes by providing the
name of the insurance company, the policy number and dates of coverage or the
permit to self-insure.
(Prior Code, § 6.11)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS; LEISURE
Section
   
111.01   Dances
   
111.02   Tobacco
   
111.03   Gambling
   
111.04   Kennels
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DANCES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PUBLIC DANCE. Any dance wherein the public may participate by payment,
directly or indirectly, of an admission fee or price for dancing, which fee may
be in the form of a club membership, or payment of money, directly or
indirectly.
      PUBLIC DANCING PLACE. Any room, place or space open to public patronage
in which dancing, wherein the public may participate, is carried on and to
which admission may be had by the public by payment, directly or indirectly, of
an admission fee or price for dancing.
   (B)   License required. It is unlawful for any person to operate a public
dancing place, or hold a public dance, without a license therefor from the
city.
   (C)   Application and license.
      (1)   A verified application for a dance license shall be filed with the
city and shall specify the names and addresses of the person, persons,
committee or organization that is to hold the dance, time and place thereof and
the area of the dance floor.
      (2)   All applications shall be accompanied by affidavits of two
residents showing that the applicant is of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she lives, that he or she has not been convicted of a
felony, gross misdemeanor or violation of any public dance laws within the past
five years. No license shall be issued to any person who has been so convicted.
      (3)   No license shall be granted by the Council for any place having so-
called “private apartments” or “private rooms” furnished or used for any
purposes other than a legitimate business purpose which adjoins the dancing
place, or which may be reached by stairs, elevators or passageway leading from
the dancing place. Nor shall a license be granted for any place which is not
properly ventilated and equipped with necessary toilets, washrooms or lighting
facilities.
      (4)   Applications may be referred by the Council to the Chief of Police
for investigation and report prior to being acted upon by the Council.
      (5)   The Council shall act upon all dance license applications at a
regular or special meeting thereof, whether or not it is included in the call
or agenda of the meeting.
      (6)   At least one officer of the law shall be designated by the Chief of
Police and employed by the city to be present at every outdoor public dance
held on city property during the entire time the dance is being held. For
purposes of this division (C)(6), the term OFFICER OF THE LAW means any person
who is a full-time or part-time peace officer. In the discretion of the Council
or Chief of Police, more than one peace officer may be required.
      (7)   The dance license shall be posted in the public dancing place and
shall state the name of the licensee, the amount paid therefor and the time and
place licensed. The license shall also state that the licensee is responsible
for the manner of conducting the dance.
      (8)   No license shall be issued to any applicant under the age of 18
years.
   (D)   Dance regulations.
      (1)   Obscenity and immorality prohibited. It is unlawful for any person
to dance, or for a licensee to permit or suffer any person to dance at any
public dance in an indecent or immodest manner. It is also unlawful for any
person at a public dance to speak in a rude, boisterous, obscene or indecent
manner or for any licensee to suffer or permit any person so to act or speak in
any public dancing place.
      (2)   Illumination. Every public dancing place shall be brightly
illuminated while in public use, and dancing therein while the lights are
extinguished, dimmed or turned low so as to give imperfect illumination is
prohibited.
      (3)   Certain persons prohibited. No licensee shall permit any unmarried
person under the age of 16 years, unless the unmarried person is accompanied by
his or her parent or guardian, to remain in a public dancing place. Nor shall
any licensee permit any intoxicated person, or other person who persists in
violating the law, to be or remain in a public dancing place.
      (4)   Hours of dancing. No public dance shall be held on Sunday. No
public dance shall be held between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.,
Tuesday through Saturday, or from 12:00 midnight on Sunday until 6:00 a.m. on
Monday.
(Prior Code, § 6.20) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 TOBACCO.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   Because Clara City recognizes that the sale of commercial tobacco,
tobacco-related devices, electronic delivery devices, and nicotine or lobelia
delivery products to persons under the age of 18 violates both state and
federal laws; and because studies, which the city accepts and adopts, have
shown that youth use of any commercial tobacco product has increased to 26.4%
in Minnesota; and because nearly 90% of people who smoke begin smoking before
they have reached the age of 18 years, and that almost no one starts smoking
after age 25; and because studies show that youth and young adults are
especially susceptible to commercial tobacco product availability, advertising
and price promotions at tobacco retail environments; and because commercial
tobacco use has been shown to be the cause of many serious health problems
which subsequently place a financial burden on all levels of government, this
section is intended to regulate the sale of commercial tobacco, tobacco-related
devices, electronic delivery devices, and nicotine or lobelia delivery products
for the purpose of enforcing and furthering existing laws, to protect youth and
young adults against the serious health effects associated with use and
initiation, and to further the official public policy of the state to prevent
young people from starting to smoke, as stated in M.S. § 144.391, as it may be
amended from time to time.
      (2)   In making these findings, the City Council accepts the conclusions
and recommendations of: the U.S. Surgeon General reports, E-cigarette Use Among
Youth and Young Adults (2016), The Health Consequences of Smoking - 50 Years of
Progress (2014) and Preventing Tobacco Use Among Youth and Young Adults (2012);
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in their studies, Tobacco Use
Among Middle and High School Students - United States, 2011- 2015(2016), and
Selected Cigarette Smoking Initiation and Quitting Behaviors Among High School
Students, United States, 1997(1998); and of the following scholars in these
scientific journals: Chen, J., & Millar, W. J. (1998). Age of smoking
initiation: implications for quitting. Health Reports, 9(4), 39-46; D'Avanzo,
B., La Vecchia, C., & Negri, E. (1994). Age at starting smoking and number of
cigarettes smoked. Annals of Epidemiology, 4(6), 455-459; Everett, S. A.,
Warren, C. W., Sharp, D., Kann, L., Husten, C. G., & Crossett, L. S. (1999).
Initiation of cigarette smoking and subsequent smoking behavior among U.S. high
school students. Preventive Medicine, 29(5), 327-333; Giovino, G. A. (2002).
Epidemiology of tobacco use in the United States. Oncogene, 21(48), 7326-7340;
Khuder, S. A., Dayal, H. H., & Mutgi, A. B. (1999). Age at smoking onset and
its effect on smoking cessation. Addictive Behaviors, 24(5), 673-677; Luke, D.
A., Hammond, R. A., Combs, T., Sorg, A., Kasman, M., Mack-Crane, A., Henriksen,
L. (2017). Minnesota Department of Health. (2018). Data Highlights from the
2017 Minnesota Youth Tobacco Survey. Saint Paul, MN; Tobacco Control Legal
Consortium. (2006). The Verdict Is In: Findings from United States v. Philip
Morris, The Hazards of Smoking. Xu, X., Bishop, E. E., Kennedy, S. M., Simpson,
S. A., & Pechacek, T. F. (2015) Annual healthcare spending attributable to
cigarette smoking: an update. American Journal of Preventive Medicine, 48(3),
326-333, copies of which are adopted by reference.
   (B)   Definitions. Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by
context, all terms are given their commonly accepted definitions. For the
purpose of this section, the following definitions apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      CHILD-RESISTANT PACKAGING. Packaging that meets the definition set forth
in Code of Federal Regulations, Title 16, Section 1700.15(b), as in effect on
January 1, 2015, and was tested in accordance with the method described in Code
of Federal Regulations, Title 16, Section 1700.20, as in effect on January 1,
2015.
      COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city uses to investigate and ensure
that those authorized to sell licensed products are following and complying
with the requirements of this section. COMPLIANCE CHECKS involve the use of
persons under the age of 18 who purchase or attempt to purchase licensed
products. COMPLIANCE CHECKS may also be conducted by the city or other units of
government for educational, research, and training purposes or for
investigating or enforcing federal, state, or local laws and regulations
relating to licensed products.
      ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE. Any product containing or delivering
nicotine, lobelia, or any other substance, whether natural or synthetic,
intended for human consumption through the inhalation of aerosol or vapor from
the product. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE includes, but is not limited to,
devices manufactured, marketed, or sold as e-cigarettes, e-cigars, e-pipes,
vape pens, mods, tank systems, or under any other product name or descriptor.
ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE includes any component part of a product, whether or
not marketed or sold separately. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE does not include
any product that has been approved or certified by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration for sale as a tobacco-cessation product, as a tobacco-dependence
product, or for other medical purposes, and is marketed and sold for such an
approved purpose.
      INDOOR AREA. All space between a floor and a ceiling that is bounded by
walls, doorways, or windows, whether open or closed, covering more than 50% of
the combined surface area of the vertical planes constituting the perimeter of
the area. A wall includes any retractable divider, garage door, or other
physical barrier, whether temporary or permanent. A standard window screen
(0.011 gauge with an 18 by 16 mesh count) is not considered a wall.
      LICENSED PRODUCTS. Collectively refers to any tobacco, tobacco-related
device, electronic delivery device, or nicotine or lobelia delivery product.
      LOOSIES. The common term used to refer to single or individually packaged
cigars or cigarettes, or any other licensed product that has been removed from
its intended retail packaging and offered for sale. LOOSIES does not include
individual cigars with a retail price, after any discounts are applied and
before any sales taxes are imposed, of at least $2.60 per cigar.
      MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business that is operated out of
a kiosk, truck, van, automobile or other type of vehicle or transportable
shelter and not a fixed address store front or other permanent type of
structure authorized for sales transactions.
      NICOTINE OR LOBELIA DELIVERY PRODUCT. Any product containing or
delivering nicotine or lobelia intended for human consumption, or any part of
such a product, that is not a tobacco or an electronic delivery device as
defined in this section. NICOTINE OR LOBELIA DELIVERY PRODUCT does not include
any product that has been approved or otherwise certified for legal sale by the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration as a tobacco-cessation product, a tobacco-
dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is being marketed and
sold solely for that approved purpose.
      PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT. Any indoor area where one or more individuals
perform any type of service for consideration of payment under any type of
contractual relationship, including but not limited to an employment
relationship with or for a private corporation, partnership, individual, or
government office. This term includes any location where one or more
individuals gratuitously perform services for which individuals are ordinarily
paid.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any indoor area used by the general public, including, but
not limited to, restaurants, bars, any other food or liquor establishment,
retail stores and other commercial establishments, schools and other
educational facilities, hospitals, nursing homes, auditoriums, arenas, meeting
rooms, and common areas of rental apartment and condominium buildings.
      RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where licensed products are
available for sale to the general public. The phrase includes but is not
limited to grocery stores, tobacco products shops, convenience stores, gasoline
service stations, bars, and restaurants.
      SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other
consideration.
      SELF-SERVICE DISPLAY. The open display of licensed products in any manner
where any person has access to the licensed products without the assistance or
intervention of the licensee or the licensee's employee.
      SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, or pipe, or any other lighted or heated product containing,
made, or derived from nicotine, tobacco, marijuana, or other plant, whether
natural or synthetic, that is intended for inhalation. SMOKING also includes
carrying or using an activated electronic delivery device.
      TOBACCO. Any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco that is
intended for human consumption, whether chewed, smoked, absorbed, dissolved,
inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means, or any component,
part, or accessory of a tobacco product including but not limited to
cigarettes; cigars; cheroots; stogies; perique; granulated, plug cut, crimp
cut, ready rubbed, and other smoking tobacco; snuff; snuff flour; cavendish;
plug and twist tobacco; fine cut and other chewing tobaccos; shorts; refuse
scraps, clippings, cuttings and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms
of tobacco. TOBACCO does not include any product that has been approved by the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco-cessation product, as a
tobacco-dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is being
marketed and sold solely for such an approved purpose.
      TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICE. Any rolling papers, wraps, pipes, or other device
intentionally designed or intended to be used with tobacco products. TOBACCO-
RELATED DEVICE includes components of tobacco-related devices or tobacco
products, which may be marketed or sold separately. TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES may
or may not contain tobacco.
      VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device that dispenses licensed products upon the insertion of money, tokens, or
other form of payment directly into the machine by the person seeking to
purchase the licensed product.
   (C)   License.
      (1)   License required. No person shall sell or offer to sell any
licensed product without first having obtained a license to do so from the
city.
      (2)   Application. An application for a license to sell licensed products
must be made on a form provided by the city. The application must contain the
full name of the applicant, the applicant's residential and business addresses
and telephone numbers, the name of the business for which the license is
sought, and any additional information the city deems necessary. Upon receipt
of a completed application, the City Clerk will forward the application to the
City Council for action at its next regularly scheduled meeting. If the City
Clerk determines that an application is incomplete, it will be returned to the
applicant with notice of the information necessary to make the application
complete.
      (3)   Action. The City Council may approve or deny the application for a
license, or it may delay action for a reasonable period of time to complete any
investigation of the application or the applicant deemed necessary. If the City
Council approves the application, the City Clerk will issue the license to the
applicant. If the City Council denies the application, notice of the denial
will be given to the applicant along with notice of the applicant's right to
appeal the decision.
      (4)   Term. All licenses issued are valid for one calendar year from the
date of issue.
      (5)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued may be suspended or
revoked following the procedures set forth in division (K) below.
      (6)   Transfers. All licenses issued are valid only on the premises for
which the license was issued and only for the person to whom the license was
issued. The transfer of any license to another location or person is
prohibited.
      (7)   Moveable place of business. No license will be issued to a moveable
place of business. Only fixed-location businesses are eligible to be licensed.
      (8)   Display. All licenses must be posted and displayed at all times in
plain view of the general public on the licensed premises.
      (9)   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this section will
be handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal must be made at least 30 days, but no more than 60 days, before the
expiration of the current license.
      (10)   Issuance as privilege and not a right. The issuance of a license
is a privilege and does not entitle the license holder to an automatic renewal
of the license.
      (11)   Minimum clerk age. Individuals employed by a licensed retail
establishment under this section must be at least 18 years of age to sell
licensed products.
      (12)   Smoking prohibited. Smoking, including smoking for the purpose of
the sampling of licensed products is prohibited within the indoor area of any
retail establishment licensed under this section.
      (13)   Samples prohibited. No person shall distribute samples of any
licensed product free of charge or at a nominal cost.
   (D)   Fees. No license will be issued under this section until the
appropriate license fees are paid in full. The fees will be established by the
city's fee schedule and may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Basis for denial of license.
      (1)    Grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a license include,
but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The applicant is under 18 years of age.
         (b)   The applicant has been convicted within the past five years of
any violation of a federal, state, or local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation relating to licensed products.
         (c)   The applicant has had a license to sell licensed products
suspended or revoked within the preceding 12 months of the date of application.
         (d)   The applicant fails to provide any of the information required
on the licensing application, or provides false or misleading information.
         (e)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state, or other local
law, ordinance, or other regulation from holding a license.
      (2)   Except as may otherwise be provided by law, the existence of any
particular ground for denial does not compel the city to deny the license.
      (3)   If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it will
be revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the license
under this section. The city will provide the license holder with notice of the
revocation, along with information on the right to appeal.
   (F)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   In general. No person shall sell or offer to sell any licensed
product:
         (a)   By means of any type of vending machine.
         (b)   By means of loosies as defined.
         (c)   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, bella donna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana, or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic, or controlled
substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process. It is not the
intention of this provision to ban the sale of lawfully manufactured cigarettes
or other products subject to this section.
         (d)   By any other means, to any other person, on in any other manner
or form prohibited by federal, state or other local law, ordinance provision,
or other regulation.
      (2)   Legal age. No person shall sell any licensed product to any person
under the age of 18.
         (a)   Age verification. Licensees must verify by means of government-
issued photographic identification that the purchaser is at least 18 years of
age. Verification is not required for a person over the age of 27. That the
person appeared to be 27 years of age or older does not constitute a defense to
a violation of this division.
         (b)   Signage. Notice of the legal sales age and age verification
requirement must be posted prominently and in plain view at all times at each
location where licensed products are offered for sale. The required signage,
which will be provided to the licensee by the city, must be posted in a manner
that is clearly visible to anyone who is or is considering making a purchase.
      (3)   Self-service sales. No person shall allow the sale of licensed
products by any self-service displays where the customer may have access to
those items without having to request the item from the licensee or the
licensee's employee and where there is not a physical exchange of the licensed
product from the licensee or the licensee's employee to the customer. All
licensed products must be stored behind the sales counter, in another area not
freely accessible to customers, or in a case or other storage unit not left
open and accessible to the general public. Any retailer selling licensed
products at the time this section is adopted must comply with this division
within 90 days of the effective date of this section.
      (4)   Liquid packaging. No person shall sell or offer to sell any liquid,
whether or not such liquid contains nicotine, which is intended for human
consumption and use in an electronic delivery device, in packaging that is not
child-resistant. Upon request by the city, a licensee must provide a copy of
the certificate of compliance or full laboratory testing report for the
packaging used.
   (G)   Responsibility. All licensees are responsible for the actions of their
employees in regard to the sale, offer to sell, and furnishing of licensed
products on the licensed premises. The sale, offer to sell, or furnishing of
any licensed product by an employee shall be considered an act of the licensee.
Nothing in this division shall be construed as prohibiting the city from also
subjecting the employee to any civil penalties that the city deems to be
appropriate under this section, state or federal law, or other applicable law
or regulation.
   (H)   Compliance checks and inspections. All licensed premises must be open
to inspection by law enforcement or other authorized city officials during
regular business hours. From time to time, but at least once per year, the city
will conduct compliance checks. In accordance with state law, the city will
conduct at least one compliance check that involves the participation of a
person between the ages of 15 and 17 to enter licensed premises to attempt to
purchase licensed products. Prior written consent from a parent or guardian is
required for any person under the age of 18 to participate in a compliance
check. Persons used for the purpose of compliance checks will be supervised by
law enforcement or other designated personnel.
   (I)   Prohibited furnishing or procurement. It is a violation of this
section for any person 18 years of age or older to purchase or otherwise obtain
any licensed product on behalf of a person under the age of 18. It is also a
violation for any person 18 years of age and older to coerce or attempt to
coerce a person under the age of 18 to purchase or attempt to purchase any
licensed product.
   (J)   Exceptions and defenses.
      (1)   Religious, spiritual, or cultural ceremonies or practices. Nothing
in this section prevents the provision of tobacco or tobacco-related devices to
any person as part of an indigenous practice or a lawfully recognized
religious, spiritual, or cultural ceremony or practice.
      (2)   Reasonable reliance. It is an affirmative defense to a violation of
this section for a person to have reasonably relied on proof of age as
described by state law.
   (K)   Violations and penalties.
      (1)   Violations.
         (a)   Notice. A person violating this section may be issued, either
personally or by mail, a citation from the city that sets forth the alleged
violation and that informs the alleged violator of his or her right to a
hearing on the matter and how and where a hearing may be requested, including a
contact address and phone number.
         (b)   Hearings.
            1.   Upon issuance of a citation, a person accused of violating
this section may request in writing a hearing on the matter. Hearing requests
must be made within ten business days of the issuance of the citation and
delivered to the City Clerk or other designated city officer. Failure to
properly request a hearing within ten business days of the issuance of the
citation will terminate the person's right to a hearing.
            2.   The City Clerk or other designated city officer will set the
time and place for the hearing. Written notice of the hearing time and place
will be mailed or delivered to the accused violator at least ten business days
prior to the hearing.
         (c)   Hearing officer. The City Council will designate a hearing
officer. The hearing officer will be an impartial employee of the city or an
impartial person retained by the city to conduct the hearing.
         (d)   Decision. A decision will be issued by the hearing officer
within ten business days of the hearing. If the hearing officer determines that
a violation of this section did occur, that decision, along with the hearing
officer's reasons for finding a violation and the penalty to be imposed, will
be recorded in writing, a copy of which will be provided to the city and the
accused violator by in-person delivery or mail as soon as practicable. If the
hearing officer finds that no violation occurred or finds grounds for not
imposing any penalty, those findings will be recorded and a copy will be
provided to the city and the acquitted accused violator by in-person delivery
or mail as soon as practicable. The decision of the hearing officer is final,
subject to an appeal as described in division (K)(1)(f) below.
         (e)   Costs. If the citation is upheld by the hearing officer, the
city's actual expenses in holding the hearing up to a maximum of $1,000 must be
paid by the person requesting the hearing.
         (f)   Appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officer
must be filed in Chippewa County district court within ten business days of the
date of the decision.
         (g)   Continued violation. Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Administrative penalties.
         (a)   Licensees. Any licensee found to have violated this section, or
whose employee violated this section, will be charged an administrative fine of
$200 for a first violation; $500 for a second offense at the same licensed
premises within a 24-month period; and $750 for a third or subsequent offense
at the same location within a 24-month period. Upon the third violation, the
license will be suspended for a period of not less than 30 consecutive days.
Upon a fourth violation, the license will be revoked.
         (b)   Other individuals. Individuals, other than persons under the age
of 18 regulated by division (K)(2)(c) below, who are found to be in violation
of this section will be charged an administrative fine of $50.
         (c)   Statutory penalties. If the administrative penalty authorized to
be imposed by M.S. § 461.12, as it may be amended from time to time, differ
from that established in this division, then the higher penalty will prevail.
      (3)   Misdemeanor prosecution. Nothing in this division prohibits the
city from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of
this section by a person 18 years of age or older.
(Ord. passed 12-10-2019)
§ 111.03 GAMBLING.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to regulate and control the
conduct of lawful gambling and to ensure that profits derived therefrom in the
city provide, to the fullest extent authorized by law, direct benefits to the
city's citizens.
   (B)   Definitions. As used in this section, the terms defined in M.S. §
349.12 are incorporated herein by reference.
      LAWFUL GAMBLING. The operation, conduct or sale of bingo, raffles, paddle
wheels, tip boards and pull-tabs for a lawful purpose.
      NET PROFIT. Gross profit from gambling conducted on the licensed
premises, less reasonable sums actually expended for allowable expenses.
      ORGANIZATION. Any fraternal, religious, veterans or other non-profit
organization which has been in existence for at least three years and has at
least 15 active members.
      TRADE AREA. An area within a 15-mile radius of the city hall building, or
the boundaries of the Maccray School District, whichever is larger.
   (C)   Provisions of state law adopted/exempt permits.
      (1)   The provisions of M.S. §§ 349.11 through 349.22 are adopted and
made a part of this section as if set out in full. In addition, the regulations
of this section shall apply to the conduct of lawful gambling within the city.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any organization exempt from licensing under
M.S. § 349.166, as may be amended from time to time, to conduct lawful gambling
without an exempt permit from the city; provided, however, that, bingo
conducted in a nursing home or a senior citizens housing project, or by a
senior citizen organization, conducted as provided and exempted by statute,
shall not require a permit.
   (D)   Notice, approval or disapproval.
      (1)   Notice. The appropriate party shall notify the City Council in
writing in the manner required by law of each pending application for a
premises permit. The applicant shall cooperate fully with city officials in
supplying all information provided for in this section. The City Council shall
determine whether the organization meets all the criteria provided for in this
section necessary to approve a premises permit.
      (2)   Approval or disapproval. Each pending application for a premises
permit shall be approved or disapproved by resolution of the City Council
within the time allowed by state law.
      (3)   Failure to act. Failure of the City Council to take action on an
application within the time allowed by law shall be deemed an approval.
      (4)   Basis for disapproval. The Council may disapprove an application
for any of the following reasons:
         (a)   Violation by the applicant or at the premises to be licensed of
any statute, rule, regulation or ordinance relating to gambling or the
operation of the establishment at the premises for which the permit is sought;
         (b)   If the applicant is a tenant, violations by the landlord of any
statute, ordinance, rule or regulation regarding operation of the landlord's
establishment;
         (c)   Any reason which would justify the Minnesota Gambling Control
Board in denying an application for a license;
         (d)   Issuance of the permit would cause the applicant or the premises
to violate this section;
         (e)   Gambling at the proposed site would be detrimental to health,
safety or welfare of the residents.
   (E)   Gambling prohibited; exemption. No person, except an organization
which has a premises permit from the Minnesota Gambling Control Board pursuant
to M.S. Ch. 349, or an organization permitted under M.S. Ch. 349 to conduct
gambling without a permit, shall conduct lawful gambling within the city.
   (F)   Application for permit.
      (1)   Contents of application. An organization shall make application for
a premises permit on a form prescribed by the Minnesota Gambling Control Board.
The application shall contain the following:
         (a)   The name and address of the applying organization and of the
organization's gambling manager and employees;
         (b)   A description of the site for which the license and permit are
sought, including its address and, where applicable, its placement within
another premises or establishment;
         (c)   If the site is leased, the name and address of the lessor and
such information about the lease as the city may require, including all rents
and other charges for the use of the site; and
         (d)   Other information the city deems necessary to carry out the
purposes of this section.
      (2)   Notification of change. An organization holding a premises permit
must notify the City Clerk in writing within ten days whenever any material
change is made in the above information.
   (G)   City investigation fees.
      (1)   Fee required. Organizations applying for or renewing premises
permits shall pay the city an investigation fee set by resolution of the City
Council. This fee shall accompany the application, and it shall reimburse the
city for its cost incident to conducting a background investigation of the
organization, its employees, and the location from which the organization
intends to operate.
      (2)   Findings and recommendations. The City Clerk and City License
Inspector shall investigate each application and report their findings and
recommendations to the City Council through the City Administrator. The
findings and recommendations shall contain a statement from the City
Administrator that the premises comply with all provisions of the city zoning
ordinance.
   (H)   Location.
      (1)   One permit per premises. No more than one premises permit shall be
issued at any location in the city.
      (2)   Limit on locations per organization. No organization may conduct
gambling in more than two locations within the city.
   (I)   Acts prohibited.
      (1)   Use by minors prohibited. No person under the age of 18 years shall
be permitted to participate in any lawful gambling, except bingo.
      (2)   Participation by volunteers or employees prohibited. No employee of
the licensed organization or any volunteer providing services connected with
gambling devices or members of the household of such employee or volunteer,
shall be permitted to participate in any lawful gambling by which a prize may
be won provided, however, that members of the household of such employee or
volunteer may participate in bingo.
   (J)   Expenditures within city. An organization that has received a premises
permit to conduct lawful gambling must expend 50% of its net profits from
lawful gambling on lawful purposes conducted in the city's trade area. Such
expenditures shall be made within the same calendar year that such proceeds are
received by the organization conducting the charitable gambling. Any
expenditures made during January of any year may, at the option of the
charitable organization, be deemed to have been made in a prior calendar year
to the extent necessary to meet the requirements of this section.
   (K)   Filing of records; inspections; access to records.
      (1)   Filing of records. Every organization holding a premises permit in
the city shall file with the City Clerk copies of the Schedule C required to be
filed with the Minnesota Gambling Control Board pursuant to M.S. Ch. 349 and
the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, by January 30 of each year.
      (2)   Open to inspection. Every gambling event conducted in the city by
an organization pursuant to M.S. Ch. 349 shall be open to inspection by
officers of the Police Department and other city officials as may be designated
from time to time by the City Manager.
      (3)   Submit copies of reports. Upon request, every organization holding
a premises permit shall submit a copy of any reports it is required to make to
the state pursuant to M.S. Ch. 349 to the city.
   (L)   Further regulations authorized. If the City Council deems it
appropriate, further regulations may be adopted by resolution of the Council.
Copies of any such additional regulations shall be furnished to all licensees.
   (M)   Grandfathering of existing licensed organization. Organizations
currently licensed by the Minnesota Gambling Control Board which are operating
in the city may continue to operate and may renew their premises permits as
long as such premises permits comply with all other provisions of this section
and other laws.
   (N)   Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to the penalty
for a misdemeanor as the same is established from time to time by the state,
plus the costs of prosecution. In addition, any organization that does not
comply with division (H) of this section shall donate 10% of the net profits
from gambling to the city for each year in which it fails to comply with that
section. This amount shall be paid to the city by January 31 of each year for
the prior year. The city shall credit the funds to the Park and Recreation Fund
for distribution by the city for lawful purposes as defined by M.S. Ch. 349.
(Ord. 346, passed 4-20-2021)
§ 111.04 KENNELS.
   (A)   Defined. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      KENNEL. Any place, building, tract of land, abode or vehicle, wherein or
whereon three or more dogs, over six months of age, are kept, kept for sale or
boarded.
   (B)   License required. It is unlawful for any person to operate or maintain
a kennel without a license therefor from the city.
   (C)   Exception. Hospitals and clinics operated by licensed veterinarians
exclusively for the care and treatment of animals are exempt from the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2, Second Series, passed 3-11-1996) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   If a licensee or employee of a licensee sells tobacco to a
person under the age of 18 years, or violates any other provisions of §
111.02, the licensee shall be charged an administrative penalty of $75. An
administrative penalty of $200 must be imposed for a violation at the same
location within 24 months after the initial violation. For a third violation at
the same location within 24 months after the initial violation, an
administrative penalty of $250 must be imposed and the licensee’s authority to
sell tobacco at that location must be suspended for not less than seven days.
No suspension or penalty may take effect until the licensee has received
notice, served personally or by mail, of the alleged violation and an
opportunity for a hearing before a person authorized by the city to conduct the
hearing.
(M.S. § 461.12(2))
      (2)   An individual who sells tobacco to a person under the age of 18
years must be charged an administrative penalty of $50. No penalty may be
imposed until the individual has received notice, served personally or by mail,
of the alleged violation and an opportunity for a hearing before a person
authorized by the city to conduct the hearing.
(M.S. § 461.12(3))
      (3)   It is an affirmative defense to the charge of selling tobacco to a
person under the age of 18 years in violation of §
111.02 that the licensee or individual making the sales relied, in good faith,
upon proof of age as follows:
         (a)   A valid driver’s license or identification card issued by the
state, another state or a province of Canada and including the photograph and
date of birth of the licensed person;
         (b)   A valid military identification card issued by the United States
Department of Defense; and/or
         (c)   In the case of a foreign national from a nation other than
Canada by a valid passport.
(Ord. passed 10-14-1997)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
112.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
112.03   Definitions
   
112.04   Nudity on the premises of licensed establishments prohibited
   
112.05   Consumption in public places
Licensing
   
112.20   Number of licenses which may be issued
   
112.21   Term and expiration of licenses
   
112.22   Kinds of liquor licenses
   
112.23   License fees; pro rata
   
112.24   Council discretion to grant or deny a license
   
112.25   Application for license
   
112.26   Description of premises
   
112.27   Applications for renewal
   
112.28   Transfer of license
   
112.29   Investigation
   
112.30   Hearing and issuance
   
112.31   Restrictions on issuance
   
112.32   Conditions of license
   
112.33   Hours and days of sale
   
112.34   Minors on premises
   
112.35   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
112.36   Suspension and revocation
   
112.37   Permits for accessory use of outdoor areas
Municipal Liquor Stores
   
112.50   Application of this subchapter
   
112.51   Existing municipal stores continued
   
112.52   Location
   
112.53   Operation
   
112.54   Proof of financial responsibility
   
112.55   Issuance of other licenses
 
   
112.99   Penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 340A, as they may be amended from time to
time, with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale, and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2 percent malt liquor are hereby adopted by
reference and are made a part of this Chapter as if set out in full. It is the
intention of the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Chapter 340A
are hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence
at the time this chapter is adopted.
§ 112.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time.
§ 112.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter:
   LIQUOR. As used in this chapter, without modification by the words
“intoxicating” or “3.2 percent malt,” includes both intoxicating liquor and 3.2
percent malt liquor.
   RESTAURANT. An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises, where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a
customer orders food from printed menus and where the main food course is
served and consumed while seated at a single location. To be a “restaurant” as
defined by this section, an establishment shall have a license from the state
as required by M.S. § 157.16, as it may be amended from time to time, and meet
the definition of either a “small establishment,” “medium establishment” or
“large establishment” as defined in M.S. § 157.16, Subd. 3d, as it may be
amended from time to time. An establishment which serves prepackaged food that
receives heat treatment and is served in the
package or frozen pizza that is heated and served, shall not be considered to
be a restaurant for purposes of this chapter unless it meets the definitions of
“small establishment”, “medium establishment” or “large establishment.”
§ 112.04 NUDITY ON THE PREMISES OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this chapter. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators, and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the
public in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and
combination of alcohol, nudity, and sex. The Council especially intends to
prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to
lead to the possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution,
sexual assault, and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the
prohibition of nudity on the premises of any establishment licensed under this
chapter, as set forth in this section, reflects the prevailing community
standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a non- transparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a
non-transparent material.
   (C) A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by
law, and is justification for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine, or
3.2 percent malt liquor license or the imposition of a civil penalty under the
provisions of §
112.99(B).
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall consume intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor in a
public park, on any public street, sidewalk, parking lot or alley, or in any
public place other than on the premises of an establishment licensed under this
chapter, in a municipal liquor dispensary if one exists in the city, or where
the consumption and display of liquor is lawfully permitted.
Penalty, see §
112.99
LICENSING
§ 112.20 NUMBER OF LICENSES WHICH MAY BE ISSUED.
   State law establishes the number of liquor licenses that a city may issue.
However, the number of licenses which may be granted under this chapter is
limited to the number of license which were issued
as of the effective date of this chapter, even if a larger number of licenses
are authorized by law or election. The Council in its sound discretion may
provide by ordinance that a larger number of licenses may be issued up to the
number of licenses authorized by M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended
from time to time. If a larger number of licenses in a particular category has
been authorized by a referendum held under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.413,
Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time, but not all of them have been
issued, the larger number of licenses is no longer in effect until the Council
by ordinance determines that any or all of the licenses may be issued. The
Council is not required to issue the full number of licenses that it has
available.
§ 112.21 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on December 31 of each year unless
another date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same
date. Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. Consumption and
display permits issued by the Commissioner of Public Safety, and the
accompanying city consent to the permit, shall expire on March 31 of each year.
§ 112.22 KINDS OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The Council of a city that does not have a municipal liquor store is
authorized to issue the following licenses and permits, up to the number
specified in §
112.20. The Council of a city which has a municipal liquor store is authorized
to issue only those licenses specified in §
112.55.
   (A)   3.2 percent malt liquor on-sale licenses, which may be issued only to
golf courses, restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers, and establishments
used exclusively for the sale of 3.2 percent malt liquor with the incidental
sale of tobacco and soft drinks.
   (B)   3.2 percent malt liquor off-sale license.
   (C)   Temporary 3.2 percent malt liquor licenses which may be issued only to
a club, charitable, religious, or nonprofit organization.
   (D)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued only to
exclusive liquor stores or drug stores that have an off-sale license which was
first issued on or before May 1, 1994. The fee for an off- sale intoxicating
liquor license established by the Council under §
112.23 shall not exceed $100 or a greater amount which may be permitted by M.S.
§ 340A.408, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued to the
following establishments as defined by M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and this chapter: hotels, restaurants, bowling centers,
theaters, clubs or congressionally chartered veterans organizations, and
exclusive liquor stores. Club licenses may be issued only with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety. The fee for club licenses established by the
Council under §
112.23 shall not exceed the amounts provided for in M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 2b,
as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may in its sound discretion
authorize a retail on-sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off
the licensed premises at a community festival held within the city under the
provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4b, as it may be amended from time to
time. The Council may in its sound discretion authorize a retail on-sale
licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at any
convention, banquet, conference, meeting, or social affair conducted on the
premises of a sports, convention, or cultural facility owned by the city, under
the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4a, as it may be amended from time to
time; however, the licensee is prohibited from dispensing intoxicating liquor
to any person attending or participating in an amateur athletic event being
held on the premises.
   (F)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, only after authorization
to do so by voter approval at a general or special election as provided by M.S.
§ 340A.504, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time. Sunday on-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only to a restaurant as defined in §
112.03, club, bowling center, or hotel which has a seating capacity of at least
30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license, and which
serves liquor only in conjunction with the service of food. The maximum fee for
this license, which shall be established by the Council under the provisions of
§
112.23, shall not exceed $200, or the maximum amount provided by M.S. §
340A.504, Subd. 3c, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (G)   Combination on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses if the city
has a population less than 10,000.
   (H)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety, which may be issued only in connection with
a social event sponsored by a club, charitable, religious, or other nonprofit
corporation that has existed for at least three years. No license shall be for
longer than four consecutive days, and the city shall issue no more than 12
days worth of temporary licenses to any one organization in one calendar year.
   (I)   On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Safety to: theaters, restaurants that have facilities for seating at least 25
guests at one time and meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 5, as it may
be amended from time to time, and which meet the definition of restaurant in §
112.03; and to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet the criteria in
M.S. § 340A.401, Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time. The fee for
an on-sale wine license established by the Council under the provisions of §
112.23 shall not exceed one-half of the license fee charged for an on-sale
intoxicating liquor license. The holder of an on-sale wine license who also
holds an on-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor license is authorized to sell malt
liquor with a content over 3.2 percent (strong beer) without an additional
license.
   (J)   One day consumption and display permits with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety to a nonprofit organization in conjunction with a
social activity in the city sponsored by the organization.
   (K)   Approval of the issuance of a consumption and display permit by the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The maximum amount of the additional fee which
may be imposed by the Council on a person who has been issued a consumption and
display permit under the provisions of §
112.23 shall not exceed $300, or the maximum amount permitted by M.S. §
340A.14, Subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time. Consumption and
display permits shall expire on March 31 of each year.
   (L)   Culinary class limited on-sale licenses may be issued to a business
establishment not otherwise eligible for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license
that, as part of its business, conducts culinary or cooking classes for which
payment is made by each participant or advance reservation required. The
license authorizes the licensee to furnish to each participant in each class,
at no additional cost to the participant, up to a maximum of six ounces of wine
or 12 ounces of intoxicating malt liquor, during and as part of the class, for
consumption on the licensed premises only.
   (M)   Temporary off-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commission
of Public Safety, may be issued for the off-sale of wine at an auction. A
license issued under this subdivision authorizes the sale of only vintage wine
of a brand and vintage that is not commonly being offered for sale by any
wholesaler in Minnesota. The license may authorize the off-sale of wine for not
more than three consecutive days provided not more than 600 cases of wine are
sold at any auction. The licenses are subject to the terms, including license
fee, imposed by §
112.23.
   (N)   Brew pub on-sale intoxicating liquor or on-sale 3.2% malt liquor
licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued
to brewers who operate a restaurant in their place of manufacture and who meet
the criteria established at M.S. § 340A.301, Subd. 6(d) and 7(b), as it may be
amended from time to time. Sales under this license at on-sale may not exceed
3,500 barrels per year. If a brew pub licensed under this section possesses a
license for off-sale under division (O) below, the brew pub’s total combined
retail sales at on-sale or off-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels per year,
provided that off-sales may not total more than 500 barrels.
   (O)   Brewer off-sale intoxicating liquor license, with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued to a brewer that is a licensee
under division (N) above ro that produces fewer than 3,500 barrels of malt
liquor in a year and otherwise meets the criteria established as M.S. §
340A.301, Subd. 6(d) and 7(b), as it may be amended from time to time. Off-sale
of malt liquor shall be limited to the legal hours for off-sale at exclusive
liquor stores in the city. Malt liquor sold off-sale must be removed from the
premises before the applicable off-sale closing time at exclusive liquor
stores. All malt liquor sold under this license shall be packaged in the manner
required by M.S. § 340A.301, Subd. 7 as it may be amended from time to time.
Sales under this license may not exceed 500 barrels per year. If a brewer
licensed under this section possesses a license under division (N) above, the
brewer’s total retail sales at on-sale or off-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels
per year, provided that off-sales may not total more than 500 barrels.
   (P)   Brewer temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued,
with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety, to brewers who
manufacture fewer than 3,500 barrels of malt liquor in a year for the on-sale
of intoxicating liquor in connection with a social event within the
municipality sponsored by the brewer.
§ 112.23 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for a
liquor license.
   (B)   The Council may establish from time to time in the Ordinance
Establishing Fees and Charges the fee for any of the liquor licenses it is
authorized to issue. The license fee may not exceed the cost of issuing the
license and other costs directly related to the enforcement of the liquor laws
and this chapter. No liquor license fee shall be increased without providing
mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed increase to all affected licensees
at least 30 days before the hearing.
   (C)   The fee for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a quarterly basis.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (E)   A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only
if authorized by M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
    (F)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licensees may request a reduction in
their annual license fee by the amount specified in M.S. § 340A.408 if at the
time of initial application or renewal they:
      (1)   Agree to have a private vendor approved by the city train all
employees within 60 days of hire and annually thereafter in laws pertaining to
the sale alcohol, the rules for identification checks, and the responsibilities
of establishments serving intoxicating liquors;
      (2)   Post a policy requiring identification checks for all persons
appearing to be 30 years old or less;
      (3)   Establish a written cash award and incentive program to award
employees who catch underage drinkers and a written penalty program to punish
employees in the event of a failed compliance check;
      (4)   Failure to abide by the provisions of this division may result in
suspension of the license
until the conditions of the fee reduction are met and may result in suspension
and/or revocation of the license pursuant to §
112.36 of this chapter.
§ 112.24 COUNCIL DISCRETION TO GRANT OR DENY A LICENSE.
   The Council in its sound discretion may either grant or deny the application
for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license. No applicant has
a right to a license under this chapter.
§ 112.25 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall
be on a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name of
the applicant, the applicant’s age, representations as to the applicant's
character, with references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in that
business at that place, and other information as the Council may require from
time to time. An application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall
be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall also
contain the information required in this section. The form shall be verified
and filed with the city. No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of any license under
this chapter, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility
as defined in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, with
regard to liability under M.S. § 340A.801, as it may be amended from time to
time. This proof will be filed with the city and the Commissioner of Public
Safety. Any liability
insurance policy filed as proof of financial responsibility under this section
shall conform to M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time.
Operation of a business which is required to be licensed by this chapter
without having on file with the city at all times effective proof of financial
responsibility is a cause for revocation of the license.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.26 DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed. The description may
not include any parking lot or sidewalk.
§ 112.27 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   At least 90 days before a license issued under this chapter is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the
Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
§ 112.28 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred without the approval
of the Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed to be a
transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior Council approval
is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to transfer a license
shall be treated the same as an application for a new license, and all of the
provisions of this code applying to applications for a license shall apply.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.29 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background and financial investigation. On an initial
application for a license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in
the sound discretion of the Council that it is in the public interest to do so,
on an application for renewal of a license, the city shall conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant or it may
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The
applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee of $500 which
shall be in addition to any license fee. If the cost of the preliminary
investigation is less than $500, the unused balance shall be returned to the
applicant. The results of the preliminary investigation shall be sent to the
Commissioner of Public Safety if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license or an on-sale wine license.
   (B)   Comprehensive background and financial investigation. If the results
of a preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the Council,
a comprehensive background and financial investigation, the Council may either
conduct the investigation itself or contract with the Commissioner of Public
Safety for the investigation. The investigation fee for this comprehensive
background and financial investigation to be paid by the applicant shall be
$500, less any amount paid for the initial investigation if the investigation
is to be conducted within the state, and $10,000, less any amount paid for the
initial investigation, if the investigation is required outside the state. The
unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation
and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall not be refundable
in the event the application is denied. The results of the comprehensive
investigation shall be sent to the Commissioner of Public Safety if the
application is for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license or an on-sale wine
license.
§ 112.30 HEARING AND ISSUANCE.
   The Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application and not
investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive background and financial
investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the
Council shall in its sound discretion grant or deny the application. No license
shall become effective until the proof of financial security has been approved
by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
§ 112.31 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
   (B)   Not more than one license shall be directly or indirectly issued
within the city to any one person.
   (C)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges, or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (D)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
   (E)   No license shall be issued to any person who is not a resident of the
state. If the applicant is a corporation, all of the shareholders shall be
residents of the state. The provisions of this division (E) shall not apply to
any license existing on the effective date of this chapter or to the renewal of
an existing license.
   (F)   No license shall be granted within 500 feet of any school or church.
The distance is to be measured from the closest side of the church to the
closest side of the structure on the premises within which liquor is to be
sold.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.32 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any one of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   Within 90 days after employment, every person selling or serving
liquor in an establishment which has an “on-sale” license shall receive
training regarding the selling or serving of liquor to customers. The training
shall be provided by an organization approved by the Council. Proof of training
shall be provided by the licensee.
   (B)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and the law equally
with the employee.
   (C)   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, city
employee, or any other person designated by the Council to conduct compliance
checks and to otherwise enter, inspect, and search the premises of the licensee
during business hours and after business hours during the time when customers
remain on the premises without a warrant.
   (D)   No on-sale establishment shall display liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law and
of this chapter is a continuing condition of any license.
   (F)   Failure by an off-sale intoxicating liquor licensee who has received a
fee reduction pursuant to §
112.23(F) of this chapter to abide with the provisions of §
112.23(F).
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.33 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. §
340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time, except that the City Council
may, by resolution or ordinance, provide for more restrictive hours than state
law allows.
   (B)   No person shall consume nor shall any on-sale licensee permit any
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor in an on-sale
licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally
occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle, or other container
containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor to remain upon any
table, bar, stool, or other place where customers are served, more than 30
minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.34 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2 percent malt liquor
are sold at retail on sale, except that persons under the age of 18 may be
employed as musicians or to perform the duties of a bus person or dishwashing
services in places defined as a restaurant, hotel, motel or other multi-purpose
building serving food in rooms in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2 percent
malt liquor are sold at retail on sale.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years may enter a licensed establishment
except to work, consume meals on premises that qualify as a restaurant, or
attend social functions that are held in a portion of the premises where liquor
is not sold.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.35 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless it has a license to sell on-sale, or a permit from the
Commissioner of Public Safety under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.414, as it
may be amended from time to time, which has been approved by the Council, and
no person shall consume liquor in any such place.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.36 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation, or provision of this chapter relating
to liquor. Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial responsibility, no
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act,
M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may
act as the hearing body under that act, or it may contract with the Office of
Hearing Examiners for a hearing officer.
   (B)   The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the Council for violations of the provisions of this
chapter or M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time or any
rules promulgated under that chapter as they may be amended from time to time:
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2 percent malt liquor, or
violation of §
112.04, the license shall be revoked.
      (2)   The license shall be suspended by the Council after a finding under
division (A) that the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable
statute, rule, or provision of this chapter for at least the minimum periods as
follows:
         (a)   For the first violation within any three-year period, at least
one day suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
         (b)   For a second violation within any three-year period, at least
three consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (c)   For the third violation within any three-year period, at least
seven consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (d)   For a fourth violation within any three-year period, the license
shall be revoked.
      (3)   The Council shall select the day or days during which the license
will be suspended.
   (C)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has
received notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation
of a license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the Clerk, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within ten days.
Any suspension under this division (B) shall continue until the Council
determines that the financial responsibility requirements of state law and this
chapter have again been met.   
   (D)   The provisions of §
112.99 pertaining to administrative penalty may be imposed in addition to or in
lieu of any suspension or revocation under this chapter.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.37 PERMITS FOR ACCESSORY USE OF OUTDOOR AREAS.
   The use of an outdoor enclosure, beer garden, deck or patio as an accessory
use to a restaurant or club that is licensed to sell intoxicating liquor, shall
be by permit only and conducted in accordance with the following terms and
conditions:
   (A)   The licensee shall first secure a permit by request to the City
Council. The request shall specifically define the area of outdoor use and the
nature of the use. The applicant shall pay a permit fee to the city prior to
issuance of the permit. The amount of the fee shall be set by resolution of the
City Council. After the initial issuance of such permit, the issuance for the
on-sale of intoxicating liquor to the licensee shall permit the sale of
intoxicating liquor in such outdoor area according to the provisions of this
section.
   (B)   The permit shall only apply to the approved or defined area and shall
not be transferable to other portions of the property, without prior approval
of the city.
   (C)   That said sale, consumption and possession be limited to property
adjacent to and contiguous with the building of the on-sale business, and on
real property owned or leased by the licensee. Such designated outdoor area is
to be specifically described as part of the licensed premise in the license
application. The structure shall comply with all applicable zoning restrictions
and setbacks unless a variance to those requirements has been obtained. Under
no circumstances shall the sale, consumption or possession of the intoxicating
liquor occur on any public streets, alleys, sidewalks, park or other public
property unless the licensee has obtained a permit for use of city property.
   (D)   Access to and egress from the designated outdoor area shall be
reviewed for each application and the city may require screening or may
prohibit the direct passage of any person between the area and any unlicensed
area of the premises or other premises, and prohibit public access to and
egress from the outdoor area other than from the main premises or structure
depending on the event.
   (E)   Sound equipment and all other noise on the outdoor enclosure shall be
so controlled that it does not disturb the peace of the surrounding area.
   (F)   Lighting equipment shall be permitted to the extent that it
illuminates the designated outdoor area. Lighting equipment shall not be
permitted to shine toward residential areas or to cause glare upon any public
street or sidewalk, or upon any other public or private property.
   (G)   In issuing the permit under this section, the City Council shall set a
time after which no intoxicating liquor shall be sold, served, possessed, or
consumed in the designated area outside of the building of an on-sale business
as is appropriate for the neighborhood in which the business is located.
   (H)   The designated outdoor area must be kept in a neat and clean
condition, and all debris located adjacent to the area, but originating from
the designated outdoor area, must be picked up and removed.
   (I)   All other provisions of this section and state law, applying to the
sale of intoxicating liquor, and the manner in which the licensee must conduct
business, shall apply to the designated out door area in a similar manner as
they apply to the licensed premises and the usual business conducted therein.
Specifically, the designated outdoor area must be included in the required
liquor liability insurance for the premises.
   (J)    Upon issuing a permit under this section, the City Council may waive
any of the requirements of this section if the Council finds that the
requirement imposes an undue hardship on the property owner and that the waiver
would not be detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of
neighboring property owners or the public. The City Council may place
additional conditions or restrictions on any permit issued under this section
for the protection of the health, safety, and general welfare of neighboring
property owners or the public.
(Ord. 329, passed 7-18-2011)
MUNICIPAL LIQUOR STORES
§ 112.50 APPLICATION OF THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter, consisting of §§
112.50 through
112.55, applies only to a city that has in existence on the effective date of
this chapter a municipal liquor store.
§ 112.51 EXISTING MUNICIPAL STORES CONTINUED.
   If the city has in existence on the effective date of this chapter a
municipal liquor store for the sale of intoxicating liquor, the store is
continued. Except as provided in §
112.55, no intoxicating liquor may be sold at retail elsewhere in the city.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.52 LOCATION.
   The municipal liquor store shall be located at a suitable place in the city
as the Council determines by motion. However, no premises upon which taxes,
assessments, or other public charges are delinquent shall be leased for
municipal liquor store purposes. The Council shall have the right to establish
additional off-sale and on-sale stores at other locations as it may, from time
to time, by motion, determine.
§ 112.53 OPERATION.
   (A)   Manager. The municipal liquor store shall be in the immediate charge
of a Liquor Store Manager selected by the Council and paid compensation as is
fixed by the Council. The Manager shall not be a person who would be prohibited
by law or any provision of this chapter from being eligible for an intoxicating
liquor license. The Manager shall furnish a surety bond to the city,
conditioned upon the faithful discharge of the duties of the office, in a sum
as specified by the Council. The bond premium may be paid by the city or the
Manager, in the discretion of the Council. The Manager shall operate the
municipal liquor store under the Council’s direction and shall perform those
duties in connection with the store as may be established by the Council. The
Manager shall be responsible to the Council for the conduct of the store in
full compliance with this chapter and with the laws relating to the sale of
intoxicating liquor and 3.2 percent malt liquor.
   (B)   Other employees. The Council may also appoint additional employees as
may be required and shall fix their compensation. All employees, including the
Manager, shall hold their positions at the pleasure of the Council. No person
under the age of 18 shall be employed in the store. The Council may require the
employees to furnish surety bonds conditioned for the faithful discharge of
their duties in a sum as specified by the Council. The premium on the bond may
be paid by the city or the employees, as the Council determines.
   (C)   Municipal liquor store fund. All of the revenues received from the
operation of a municipal liquor store shall be deposited in a municipal liquor
store fund from which all ordinary operating expenses, including compensation
of the Manager and employees, shall be paid. Surpluses accumulating in the fund
may be transferred to the general fund of the city or to any other appropriate
fund of the city by resolution of the Council, and may be expended for any
municipal purpose. The handling of municipal liquor store receipts and
disbursements shall comply with the procedure prescribed by law and charter for
the receipts and disbursements of city funds generally.
   (D)   Financial statement. The Council shall provide within 90 days
following the end of the calendar year for publication a balance sheet using
generally accepted accounting procedures and a statement of operations of the
municipal liquor store for that year. The balance sheet and statement shall be
published in accordance with the provisions of M.S. § 471.6985, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (E)   Hours of operation. The hours during which the sale of intoxicating
liquor may be sold shall be as provided in §
112.33. No person, other than the Manager or a store employee, may remain in
the municipal liquor store longer than one-half hour after the time when the
sale of intoxicating liquor must cease.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.54 PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The city shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility required by
licensees of retail intoxicating liquor establishments under the provisions of
M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 112.55 ISSUANCE OF OTHER LICENSES.
   (A)   On-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquor. The Council may
issue in its sound discretion on-sale licenses to a club under M.S. § 340A.404,
Subd. 1(4), as it may be amended from time to time. If the voters have
authorized their issuance at a special election called for that purpose, the
Council may issue on its sound discretion on-sale liquor licenses to hotels and
restaurants. The number of on-sale licenses issued under this section is
governed by M.S. § 340A.413, as it may be amended from time to time, as limited
by the provisions of this chapter. The issuance of these licenses is governed
by the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Off-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquor. State law does
not authorize the issuance of off-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating
liquor by cities which operate a municipal liquor dispensary.
   (C)   On- and off-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor licenses. The Council may
issue 3.2 percent malt liquor licenses in its sound discretion as provided in
this chapter.
§ 112.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or M.S. Chapter
340A as it may be amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that
chapter as they may be amended from time to time is guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction shall be punished as provided by law.
   (B)   The Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and of
this chapter. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required in
order for the Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the
Administrative Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended
from time to time, is not required before the penalty is imposed, but the
Council shall hold a hearing on the proposed violation and the proposed penalty
and hear any person who wishes to speak. Non-payment of the penalty is grounds
for suspension or revocation of the license. The following is the minimum
schedule of presumptive civil penalties which must be imposed in addition to
any suspension unless the licenses is revoked:
      (1)   For the first violation within any three-year period, $500.
      (2)   For the second violation within any three-year period, $1,000.
      (3)   For the third and subsequent violations within any three-year
period, $2,000.
   (C)   The term “violation” as used in this section includes any and all
violations of the provisions of this chapter, or of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it
may be amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that chapter as
they may be amended from time to time. The number of violations shall be
determined on the basis of the history of violations for the preceding three-
year period. Revocation shall occur within 60 days following a violation for
which revocation is imposed.
CHAPTER 113: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   License required; applications
   
113.04   License fees
   
113.05   Granting licenses
   
113.06   Persons and places ineligible for license
   
113.07   Building standards
   
113.08   Conditions of license
   
113.09   Hours of operation
§ 113.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations governing the
licensing of sexually oriented businesses classified as “adult uses” in the
city and to prevent the spread of sexually transmitted diseases.
(Ord. 305, Second Series, passed 1-13-2004)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT USES. Any of the activities and businesses described below constitute
“sexually oriented businesses” which are subject to the regulations of this
chapter.
   BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business which provides the
service of applying paint or other substance whether transparent or
nontransparent to the body of a patron when the body is wholly or partially
nude in terms of “specified anatomical areas”.
   BOOKSTORE. A building or portion of a building used for the barter, rental
or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures, slides, records, audio
tape, videotape or motion picture film, if the building or portion of a
building is not open to the public generally but only to one or more classes of
the public, excluding any minor by reason of age, and if a substantial or
significant portion of the items are distinguished and characterized by an
emphasis on the depiction or description of “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas”.
   CABARET. A building or portion of a building used for providing dancing or
other live entertainment, if the building or portion of a building excludes
minors by virtue of age and if the dancing or other live entertainment is
distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on the presentation, display,
depiction or description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”.
   COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A companionship establishment which excludes
minors by reason of age, and which provides the service of engaging in or
listening to conversation, talk or discussion between an employee of the
establishment and a customer, if the service is distinguished and characterized
by an emphasis on “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas”.
   CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A conservation/rap parlor which excludes minors by
reason of age, and which provides the services of engaging in or listening to
conversation, talk or discussion, if the service is distinguished and
characterized by an emphasis on “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”.
   ESCORT. Any person who receives financial consideration for consorting with
or escorting another person in any public or private place within the city.
   ESCORT BUREAU. Any person who offers to furnish an escort for financial
consideration.
   HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club which excludes minors by reason of
age, and if the club is distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. Adult hotel or motel means a hotel or motel from which
minors are specifically excluded from patronage and where material is presented
which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to “specified sexually activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”.
   MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health club which restricts
minors by reason of age, and which provides the services of massage, if the
service is distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
   MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a building with a
capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting material if the building
or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors by virtue of
age, and if the material is distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical area” for observation by
patrons therein.
   MODELING STUDIO. An establishment whose major business is the provision, to
customers, of figure models who are so provided with the intent of providing
sexual stimulation or sexual “gratification to the customers and who engage in
“specified sexual activities” or display “specified anatomical areas” while
being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn, sculptured,
photographed or otherwise depicted by the customers.
   MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited
wherein coin- or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically
controlled or operated still or motion picture machines, projectors or other
image producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons
per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or
describing”specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”. A
MOTION PICTURE ARCADE includes one or more coin-operated machines or coin-
operated amusement devices where the operator deposits a coin for the
opportunity of playing a game of skill.
   MOTION PICTURE THEATERS. A building or portion of a building with a capacity
of 50 or more persons used for presenting material if the building or portion
of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors by virtue of age, and if
the material is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” for observation by patrons
therein.
   NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which has as a principal activity the sale of
devices which simulate human genitals or devices which are designed for sexual
stimulation.
   SAUNA. A sauna which excludes minors by reason of age, and which provides a
steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of bathing, relaxation or
reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent,
if the service provided by the sauna is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
   STEAM ROOM/ BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or portion of a building used for
providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of pleasure,
bathing, relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning,
relaxing or reducing agent if the building or portion of a building restricts
minors by reason of age and if the service provided by the steam room/bathhouse
facility is distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, anus or female breast(s) below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; and/or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship, and any of the following sexually oriented acts or conduct:
anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty;
      (2)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal or tumescence;
      (3)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus
or masturbation;
      (4)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks
or female breast;
      (5)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude,
clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes and who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other
physical restraint of any persons;
      (6)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; or
      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation.
(Ord. 305, Second Series, passed 1-13-2004)
§ 113.03 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   License required. No person shall operate a sexually oriented business
classified as “adult use-principal” defined in this chapter without having
first secured a license as hereinafter provided. The owner(s) of a sexually
oriented business in operation as of the effective date hereof, shall be
required to file an application for a license as required by this chapter on or
before the effective date; provided, however, that the city shall not be
permitted to enforce this chapter against the owners until the city renders its
decision on the application.
   (B)   Applications; content. An application for the license required by this
section shall require the following information:
      (1)   The name, residence, phone number and birth date of the applicant,
if an individual; and if a corporation limited liability company or
partnership, the names, residences, phone number and birth dates of those
owners/shareholders/members/partners holding an ownership interest in whatever
form, voting or non-voting;
      (2)   The name, address, phone number and birth date of the manager of
the operation, if different from the owners;
      (3)   The premises wherein the adult use is to be located;
      (4)   A statement detailing each gross misdemeanor or felony relating to
a sex offense and/or the operation of adult uses and related activities of
which the applicant (or in the case of a corporation, limited liability company
or partnership the owners, shareholders, members, partners holding an ownership
interest in whatever form, voting or non-voting) have been convicted, and
whether or not the
applicant has ever applied for or held a license to operate a similar type of
business in other communities;
      (5)   The activities and types of business to be conducted;
      (6)   The hours of operation;
      (7)   The provisions made to restrict access by minors;
      (8)   A building plan of the premises detailing all internal operations
and activities;
      (9)   A description of merchandise, services or entertainment for sale in
the premises;
      (10)   The means of restricting access by minors; and
      (11)   The property owner’s name and address and business owner’s name
and address.
   (C)   Renewal applications. Applications for renewal licenses required by
this chapter shall be completed and filed with the City Administrator no later
than November 30 of the year preceding the year for which application is made.
Any renewal application not completed and filed by that date shall be treated
as a non-renewal application.
(Ord. 305, Second Series, passed 1-13-2004)
§ 113.04 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Payment of fee. Each application for a license shall be accompanied by
a receipt from the city for payment in full of the required application fee for
the license. All fees shall be paid into the General Fund of the municipality.
Upon rejection of any applications for a license, the city shall refund the
application license fee paid, minus the amount of costs necessary for
application, investigation and review, including, but not limited to, costs
related to administration, planning, legal, inspection and police
investigation.
   (B)   Term of license; pro rata fee. All licenses shall expire on December
31 in each year. Each license shall be issued for a period of one year, except
that if a portion of the license year has elapsed when the application is made,
a license may be issued for the remainder of the year for a pro rata fee. In
computing the fee, any unexpired fraction of a month shall be counted as one
month.
   (C)   Annual fee. The annual fee for an adult use-principal license shall be
as set by resolution of the City Council. The City Council shall not set this
fee arbitrarily, but shall determine the amount in relation to its best
estimate of actual costs of administration, planning, legal, inspection and
police investigation related to the application and the ongoing operation of
the business.
   (D)   Refunds. No part of the annual fee paid by any licensee shall be
refunded.
(Ord. 305, Second Series, passed 1-13-2004)
§ 113.05 GRANTING LICENSES.
   (A)   Hearing; issuance of license. The City Administrator or his or her
designated representatives shall investigate all facts set out in the
application. A public hearing shall be held before the City Council prior to
any action taken on the license application. The public hearing shall be set
within 45 days of the receipt of the application. The purpose of the public
hearing shall be to consider public input on the criteria for granting a
license. Criteria for investigating and evaluating a license shall be limited
to the following:
      (1)   Application shall be completed in full;
      (2)   A license shall not be issued to a person who is ineligible for a
license under §
113.06;
      (3)   A license shall not be issued to an applicant whose place of
business is ineligible for license under §
113.06;
      (4)   A license shall not be issued to an applicant if the applicant or
the place of business does not comply with §
113.07;
      (5)   A license shall not be issued to an applicant if applicant does not
comply with §§
113.08 and
113.09;
      (6)   The adult use shall be in compliance with all applicable city code
regulations; and
      (7)   The place of business shall meet the city’s Building and Fire Code
regulations in effect as of the date of application.
   (B)   Decision to grant or deny. The city shall investigate and notify the
applicant, in writing, of the city’s decision to grant or deny the license
within 60 days of the date the application is received by the city.
      (1)   The City Council shall issue a license within that period of time
to any applicant who, on completion of the city’s investigation, is found to
have met all of the criteria defined in division (B) above.
      (2)   If an application is denied, the city’s notice shall specify in
writing the reason(s) for the denial.
   (C)   License nontransferable. License(s) shall be issued to the applicant
only and shall not be transferable to another holder. Each license shall be
issued only for the premises described in the application. No license shall be
transferred to another place without the approval of the City Council.
   (D)   Right of judicial review. Any applicant who has received notice that
his, her or its application for a license has been denied shall have the right
of prompt judicial review without the need to first appeal to the city.
(Ord. 305, Second Series, passed 1-13-2004)
§ 113.06 PERSONS AND PLACES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Ineligible persons. No license shall be granted to or held by any
person:
      (1)   Under 21 years of age;
      (2)   Who is not the proprietor of the establishment for which the
license is issued; and/or
      (3)   Who has been convicted of violating any law of the state or any
other state or any local ordinance relating to sex offense and/or adult use.
   (B)   Ineligible places.
      (1)   No license shall be granted for adult uses on any premises where a
licensee or applicant has been convicted of a violation of this chapter, or any
crime that would constitute a violation of this chapter, or where there have
been convictions for activities on the premises such as would cause the
building to constitute a “public nuisance” under M.S. §§ 617.80 through 617.87,
as may be amended from time to time, until one year has elapsed after the
conviction(s) related to the events.
      (2)   Except for uses lawfully existing at the time of the adoption of
this chapter, no license shall be granted for any adult use which is not in
compliance with the city’s zoning regulations.
      (3)   No sexually oriented business shall locate in any place which is
also used to dispense or consume alcohol.
(Ord. 305, Second Series, passed 1-13-2004)
§ 113.07 BUILDING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Specific uses prohibited. No commercial building, structure, premises
or part thereof, or facilities therein used by a sexually oriented business
classified as an “adult use-principal” shall be so constructed, used, designed
or operated for the purpose of engaging in, or permitting persons to engage in
sexual activities as defined in this code.
   (B)   Certain structural modification prohibited. No person shall own,
operate, manage, rent, lease or exercise control of any commercial building,
structure, premises or portion or part thereof, which contains:
      (1)   Partitions between subdivisions of a room, portion or part of a
building, structure or premises having an aperture which is designed or
constructed to facilitate sexual activity between persons on either side of the
partition; and/or
      (2)   Booths, stalls or partitioned portions of a room, or individual
rooms, used for adult uses, having doors, curtains or partial partitions,
unless the booths, stalls, partitioned portions of a room or individual rooms
so used shall have at least one side open to an adjacent public room so that
the area inside is visible to persons in the adjacent public room. The areas
shall be lighted in a manner that the persons in the area used for adult uses
are visible from the adjacent public rooms, but the lighting shall not be of an
intensity as to prevent the viewing of motion pictures or other offered adult
uses.
   (C)   Viewing areas and booths.
      (1)   All viewing areas or booths in movie arcades shall be accessible
from a continuous main aisle.
      (2)   All viewing areas or booths shall be located together along a
continuous main aisle to eliminate the possibility of secluded booths elsewhere
on the premises.
      (3)   No more than one person shall be permitted to enter or remain in a
viewing area or booth at any time.
      (4)   The viewing areas or booths shall be maintained at all times in a
clean and sanitary manner.
   (D)   Entrances, windows, door. All entrances to the business, with the
exception of emergency fire exits not usable to enter the business, shall be
visible from a public right-of-way. In addition, all windows and doors shall be
so blocked or covered to prohibit viewing of the interior of the premises from
outside of the premises.
   (E)   Location of performances. All performances shall be on a raised stage.
The stage must be raised from the surrounding floor by at least two feet and no
patrons may be on the stage at any time during any performance.
   (F)   Patron proximity to performance. All patrons shall be at least ten
feet from the stage.
   (G)   Interaction prohibited. No dancer shall fondle or caress any patron
and no patron shall fondle or caress any dancer.
   (H)   Gratuity prohibited. No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity
to any dancer and no dancer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron.
(Ord. 305, Second Series, passed 1-13-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.08 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Generally. Every license shall be granted subject to all of the
conditions of this code and of any other applicable county, state or federal
law.
   (B)   License posted. All licensed premises shall have the license posted in
a conspicuous place at all times.
   (C)   Minors prohibited. No minor shall be permitted on the licensed
premises and the licensee shall not employ any minors. Provisions to restrict
access by minors shall prohibit any entry or view into the portion of the
premises in which the sexually oriented business is carried on.
   (D)   Right to enter. Any designated inspection officer of the city,
including the Chief of Police, shall have the unqualified right to enter and
inspect the premises of a licensee during regular business hours and during
nonbusiness hours to determine compliance with this chapter.
   (E)   Responsibility for conduct. Every licensee shall be responsible for
the conduct of the place of business and shall maintain conditions of order.
   (F)   Intoxicated persons. No person to whom a license has been issued shall
permit to be or remain in any adult entertainment establishment any obviously
intoxicated person.
(Ord. 305, Second Series, passed 1-13-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.09 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Sexually oriented businesses shall be restricted from operating between the
hours of one minute after 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. The licensee shall not permit
any patron to be in the place of business between the hours of 1:30 a.m. and 6:
00 a.m.
(Ord. 305, Second Series, passed 1-13-2004)
CHAPTER 114: SOLICITORS
Section
   
114.01   Purpose
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Exempt activities
   
114.04   Prohibited solicitation practices
   
114.05   Application
   
114.06   Investigation, approval or disapproval
   
114.07   Duration of contribution solicitation registration
§ 114.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to in any way hinder, delay or interfere
with legitimate business or organizational activities. The Council finds,
however, that solicitors have used public streets and their direct contact with
residents of the city for illegitimate solicitation practices of harassment,
nuisance, theft, deceit, or menacing, troublesome or unlawful activities. This
chapter is intended to ferret out and control:
      (1)   Businesses and organizations using solicitation as a means of
concealing unlawful activities;
      (2)   Businesses and organizations which, though its activities be lawful
or even commendable, use such illegitimate practices in solicitation; and
      (3)   Individual natural persons who, though they represent lawful
businesses and organizations, use such illegitimate solicitation practices.
   (B)   The Council further finds that a large number of the residents of the
city are employed as their livelihood and means of support by manufacturing
plants and other businesses on shifts rotating between night and day, and to
disturb their sleeping hours for the purpose of solicitation is a source of
nuisance or even harassment and should be subject to control.
(Prior Code, § 6.23) (Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS SO LICITATION. An attempt by a solicitor, engaging in transactions
of the same kind, to sell or distribute for a consideration any goods or
services primarily for personal, family or household purposes, when either the
solicitor or person acting for him or her contacts the solicitee by telephone
or in person, other than at the established place of business of solicitor,
except:
      (1)   An attempted solicitation in which the solicitee personally knows
the identity of the solicitor, the name of the business firm or organization he
or she represents, and the identity or kinds of goods, services or things of
value offered;
      (2)   An attempted solicitation in which the solicitee has first
initiated the contact with the solicitor;
      (3)   An attempted solicitation of a newspaper subscription in which the
solicitor is a minor child engaged in both the delivery and sale of the
newspaper;
      (4)   An attempted solicitation for the sale of products of a farm or
garden occupied or cultivated by the solicitor, when facts of the occupancy or
cultivation are proven by the solicitor; or
      (5)   An attempted solicitation for an exempt activity as defined in §
114.03.
   CONTRIBUTION SOLICITATION. An attempt by a solicitor to obtain money from a
solicitee for any cause or purpose, when either the solicitor or person acting
for him or her contacts the solicitee by telephone or in person other than at
the established place of meeting, business, service or activity of the
organization represented by the solicitor, except:
      (1)   An attempted solicitation in which the solicitee personally knows
the identity of the solicitor, the name of the organization he or she
represents, and the identity of the services performed or offered by the
organization;
      (2)   An attempted solicitation in which the solicitee has first
initiated the contact with the solicitor or the organization represented by him
or her; or
      (5)   An attempted solicitation for an exempt activity as defined in §
114.03.
   ESTABLISHED PLACE. Real estate in the city owned, leased on a month to month
or term-certain longer than 30 days. The term includes a booth, compartment or
area leased or assigned during and for the length of an event or occasion.
   GOODS. Any tangible thing of value including money if the selling price
exceeds the face value thereof. The term includes such chattels as are
furnished or used at the time of sale or subsequently in the modernization,
rehabilitation, repair, alteration, improvement or construction of real
property so as to become a part thereof whether or not severable therefrom.
   SERVICES. Work, labor or services of any kind.
   SOLICITEE. The person solicited.
   SOLICITOR. Any person making the solicitation, including such common terms
as PEDDLER, TRANSIENT MERCHANT and CANVASSER.
(Prior Code, § 6.23) (Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009)
§ 114.03 EXEMPT ACTIVITIES.
   The provisions of §§
114.04 through
114.06 do not apply to persons selling personal property at wholesale to
dealers of such articles, nor to newspersons, nor to the act of merchants or
their employees in delivering goods to established customers in the regular
course of business, nor to the sale of farm or garden produce by the person
producing same, nor to the sale of goods or admissions to events by K-12
students where the proceeds of such sales benefit a program or activity in
which the student is involved, nor to the employees of bakery, dairy or grocery
delivery services who make an uninvited initiatory visit in an effort to
establish a regular route service for future delivery of perishables nor to
lawful religious or political activities. All persons described in this section
shall comply with the provisions of this section even if they are exempt from
the requirements of §§
114.04 through
114.06.
(Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009)
§ 114.04 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION PRACTICES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any solicitor to engage in solicitation for any
unlawful business or organizational purpose or activity.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any solicitor to practice harassment, nuisance,
theft, deceit or menacing, troublesome or otherwise unlawful activities during
the course of solicitation.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any solicitor to enter, or attempt to gain
entrance, to residential premises displaying at the entrance a sign at least
three and three-fourths inches long and three and three-fourths inches high
with the words “Peddlers and Solicitors Prohibited” or “Solicitors Prohibited”
in type not smaller than 48 point.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any solicitor to refuse to leave business premises
when requested by the owner, lessee or person in charge thereof.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in contribution solicitation
without completion of licensing or registration, as herein provided.
   (F)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in business solicitation
without a license, as herein provided.
   (G)   It is unlawful for any solicitor to conduct business before 9:00 a.m.
or later than 8:00 p.m.
   (H)   It is unlawful for any solicitor to walk on or about any side or rear
yard or attempt to make contact at any point other than the main point of
entrance or front door of a residence.
(Prior Code, § 6.23) (Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 114.05 APPLICATION.
   Applications for licensing or registration shall contain the name and
address of the solicitor, the name and address of the business or organization
for which solicitations are sought and other information as may reasonably be
required by the Council as a condition to registration or licensing or to
permit investigation into the applicant’s background and past solicitation
practices. No application for a business solicitor’s license shall be complete
unless it is accompanied by a valid and current license issued by the County in
which the solicitor proposes to engage in solicitation.
(Prior Code, § 6.23) (Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009)
§ 114.06 INVESTIGATION, APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL.
   (A)   All applications for licensing or registration shall be immediately
referred to the Chief of Police and by him or her or other person acting in his
or her stead, investigated as to the truth thereof. The Chief of Police shall
have five business days within which to investigate and make a recommendation
thereon.
   (B)   If he or she finds no past history of the applicant indicating
violations similar to those declared unlawful in this section, he or she shall
recommend issuing a license or approving registration, as the case may be, and
the City Administrator shall forthwith advise the applicant. The City
Administrator shall issue a license, upon payment of the fee therefor, to the
approved applicant for business solicitation, and shall approve the completion
of registration by the applicant for a contribution solicitor.
   (C)   If the Chief of Police finds a past history of the applicant
indicating violations similar to those declared unlawful in this section, he or
she shall recommend denial of the license or registration. In all matters of
recommended denial, the applicant shall be forthwith advised thereof and the
application shall be referred to the Council and considered by it at its next
regular or special meeting occurring more than ten days thereafter. The
applicant shall be afforded an opportunity to be heard at the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 6.23) (Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009)
§ 114.07 DURATION OF CONTRIBUTION SOLICITATION REGISTRATION.
   Registration of contribution solicitation shall expire 60 days after
registration is approved.
(Prior Code, § 6.23) (Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND ARTICLES
      
131.   CURFEW
      
132.   DISORDERLY CONDUCT
CHAPTER 130: DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND ARTICLES
Section
   
130.01   Acts prohibited; exception
   
130.02   Discharge of firearms and explosives; exception
   
130.03   Possession and sale of fireworks
   
130.04   Exposure of unused containers
   
130.05   Use of bow and arrow
§ 130.01 ACTS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Recklessly handle or use a gun or other dangerous weapon or
explosive so as to endanger the safety of another;
      (2)   Intentionally point a gun of any kind, capable of injuring or
killing a human being and whether loaded or unloaded, at or toward another;
      (3)   Manufacture or sell for any unlawful purpose any weapon known as a
slung-shot or sand club;
      (4)   Manufacture, transfer or possess metal knuckles or a switch blade
knife opening automatically;
      (5)   Possess any other dangerous article or substance for the purpose of
being used unlawfully as a weapon against another;
      (6)   Sell or have in his or her possession any device designed to
silence or muffle the discharge of a firearm;
      (7)   Permit, as a parent or guardian, any child under 14 years of age to
handle or use, outside of the parent’s or guardian’s presence, a firearm or air
gun of any kind, or any ammunition or explosive;
      (8)   Furnish a minor under 18 years of age with a firearm, air gun,
ammunition or explosive without the written consent of his or her parent or
guardian or of the Police Department; or
      (9)   Possess, sell, transfer or have in possession for sale or transfer,
any weapon commonly known as a throwing star, nun chuck, sharp stud or splat
gun. For the purposes of this division (A)(9):
         (a)   A THROWING STAR means a circular metallic device with any number
of points projecting from the edge;
         (b)   A NUN CHUCK means a pair of wood sticks or metallic rods
separated by chain links attached to one end of each stick or rod;
         (c)   A SHARP STUD means a circular piece of metal attached to a wrist
band, glove, belt or other material which protrudes one-fourth inch, or more,
from the material to which it is attached, and with the protruding portion
pyramidal in shape, sharp or pointed; and
         (d)   A SPLAT GUN means a weapon which, by means of compressed air or
gas, emits a projectile containing paint or other substance.
   (B)   Nothing in division (A) above shall prohibit the possession of the
articles therein mentioned if the purpose of the possession is for public
exhibition by museums or collectors of art.
(Prior Code, § 10.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS AND EXPLOSIVES; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to fire or discharge any cannon, gun,
pistol or other firearm, firecracker, sky rocket or other fireworks, air gun,
air rifle or other similar device commonly referred to as a B-B gun.
   (B)   (1)   Nothing in division (A) above shall apply to a display of
fireworks by an organization or group of organizations authorized in writing by
the Council, or to a peace officer in the discharge of his or her duty, or to a
person in the lawful defense of his or her person or family.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to the discharge of firearms in a
range authorized in writing by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 10.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 POSSESSION AND SALE OF FIREWORKS.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell, possess or have in possession for the
purpose of sale, except as allowed in §
130.02(B), any firecrackers, sky rockets or other fireworks.
(Prior Code, § 10.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 EXPOSURE OF UNUSED CONTAINERS.
   It is unlawful for any person, being the owner or in possession or control
thereof, to permit an unused refrigerator, ice box or other container,
sufficiently large to retain any child and with doors which fasten
automatically when closed, to expose the same accessible to children, without
removing the doors, lids, hinges or latches.
(Prior Code, § 10.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 USE OF BOW AND ARROW.
   It is unlawful for any person to shoot a bow and arrow, except in the
physical education program in a school supervised by a member of its faculty, a
community-wide supervised class or event specifically authorized by the Chief
of Police, or a bow and arrow range authorized by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 10.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: CURFEW
Section
   
131.01   Definition
   
131.02   Unlawful acts
   
131.03   Loitering
   
131.04   Exceptions
§ 131.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MINOR. A person under the age of 16 years.
(Prior Code, § 10.30)
§ 131.02 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any minor person to be or loiter upon the streets
or public places between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the day
following.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person having the
legal care or custody of any minor to allow or permit the minor to be or loiter
upon the streets or public places in violation of this section unless the minor
is accompanied by a person of lawful age having the minor in charge.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person operating, or in charge of, any place of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment, or other place of business, to allow
or permit any minor to be or loiter in a place in violation of this section
unless the minor is accompanied by a person of lawful age having the minor in
charge. This division (C) shall not be construed to permit the presence, at any
time, of any person under age in any place where his or her presence is
otherwise prohibited by law.
(Prior Code, § 10.30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 LOITERING.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons
or property in the vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in
determining whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight
upon appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect’s escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
§ 131.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   The curfew does not apply to a minor who is:
   (A)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
   (B)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
   (C)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
   (D)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home from
an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
   (E)   Involved in an emergency;
   (F)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence;
   (G)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor; or
   (H)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly.
(Prior Code, § 10.30)
CHAPTER 132: DISORDERLY CONDUCT
Section
   
132.01   Disorderly conduct generally
   
132.02   Noisy parties
   
132.03   Dangerous trespass and other acts
   
132.04   Obscenity
§ 132.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT GENERALLY.
   It is unlawful for any person, in a public or private place, knowing or
having reasonable grounds to know, that it will, or will tend to, alarm, anger
or disturb others or provoke any assault or breach of the peace, to do the
following:
   (A)   Engage in brawling or fighting;
   (B)   Disturb an assembly or meeting, not unlawful in its character;
   (C)   Engage in offensive, obscene or abusive language or in boisterous and
noisy conduct tending reasonably to arouse alarm, anger or resentment in
others;
   (D)   Whether or not posted with signs so prohibiting, voluntarily enter the
waters of any river or public swimming pool at any time when the waters are not
properly supervised by trained life-saving personnel in attendance for that
purpose, or enter the waters without being garbed in a bathing suit sufficient
to cover his or her person and equal to the standards generally adopted and
accepted by the public;
   (E)   Urinate or defecate in a place other than:
      (1)   If on public property then in a plumbing fixture provided for that
purpose;
      (2)   If on the private property of another then in a plumbing fixture
provided for that purpose; or
      (3)   If on private property not owned or controlled by another, then
within a building.
   (F)   Cause the making or production of an unnecessary noise by shouting or
by any other means or mechanism including the blowing of any automobile or
other vehicle horn;
   (G)   Use a sound amplifier upon streets and public property without prior
written permission from the city;
   (H)   Use a flash or spotlight in a manner so as to annoy or endanger
others;
   (I)   Cause defacement, destruction or otherwise damage to any premises or
any property located thereon;
   (J)   Strew, scatter, litter, throw, dispose of or deposit any refuse,
garbage or rubbish unto any premises, except into receptacles provided for the
purpose;
   (K)   Enter any motor vehicle of another without the consent of the owner or
operator; or
   (L)   Fail or refuse to vacate or leave any premises after being requested
or ordered, whether orally or in writing, to do so, by the owner, or person in
charge thereof, or by any law enforcement agent or official; provided that,
this provision shall not apply to any person who is owner or tenant of the
premises involved nor to any law enforcement or other government official who
may be present thereon at that time as part of his or her official duty, nor
shall it include the spouse, children, employee or tenant of the owner or
occupier.
(Prior Code, § 10.31) (Ord. 321, Second Series, passed 10-13-2009) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 132.02 NOISY PARTIES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person or persons to congregate on any private
lands because of, or participate in, any party or gathering of people from
which noise emanates of a sufficient volume or of a nature as to disturb the
peace, quiet or repose of other persons. Any owner or person in lawful
possession or control of the private lands who has knowledge of the disturbance
and fails to immediately abate the disturbance shall be guilty of a violation
of this section.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person or persons to congregate on any private
lands of another because of, or participate in, any party or gathering of
people in the absence of the owner of the private lands being present, without
first having obtained written permission from the landowner or other person in
lawful possession of the private lands. The written permission shall at all
times be in the possession of one or more persons at the site of the
congregation. The document containing the written permission must bear the
signature of the landowner and date of the permitted use. Failure to display
written permission upon request shall be considered prima facie evidence of an
absence of permission from the owner.
   (C)   (1)   A violation of divisions (A) and (B) above shall give a peace
officer the authority to order all persons present, other than persons
identifying themselves as the owner or person in lawful possession or control
of the land, to immediately disperse.
      (2)   Any person who shall refuse to leave after being ordered to do so
by a peace officer shall be guilty of a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 10.32) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 DANGEROUS TRESPASS AND OTHER ACTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Smoke in the presence of explosives, or inflammable materials, or in a
building, or area, in which “No Smoking” notices have been prominently posted;
   (B)   Interfere with or obstruct the prevention or extinguishing of any
fire, or disobey the lawful orders of a law enforcement officer or firefighter
present at the fire;
   (C)   Show a false light or signal or interfere with any light, signal or
sign controlling or guiding traffic upon a highway, railway track or navigable
water;
   (D)   Place an obstruction upon a railroad track;
   (E)   Expose another or his or her property to an obnoxious or harmful gas,
fluid or substance, with intent to injure, molest or coerce;
   (F)   Trespass or permit animals under his or her control to trespass upon a
railroad track;
   (G)   Permit domestic animals or fowls under his or her control to go upon
the lands of another within the city;
   (H)   Interfere unlawfully with any monument, sign or pointer erected or
marked to designate a point of a boundary, line or a political subdivision or a
tract of land;
   (I)   Trespass upon the premises of another, and without claim of right
refuse to depart therefrom on demand of the lawful possessor;
   (J)   Occupy or enter the dwelling of another, without claim of right, or
consent of the owner, or the consent of one who has the right to give consent,
except in an emergency situation;
   (K)   Enter the premises of another with intent to take or injure any fruit,
fruit trees or vegetables growing thereon without the permission of the owner
or occupant; or
   (L)   Without the permission of the owner tamper with or get into or upon a
motor vehicle, or ride in or upon the motor vehicle knowing it was taken and is
being driven by another without the permission of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 10.33) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NUDITY. Uncovered, or less than opaquely covered, post-pubertal human
genitals, pubic areas, the post-pubertal human female breast below a point
immediately above the top of the areola or the covered human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state. For purposes of this definition, a female breast is
considered “uncovered” if the nipple only or the nipple and the areola only are
covered.
      OBSCENE PERFORMANCE. A performance which in whole or in part depicts or
reveals nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or sado-masochistic abuse, or
which includes obscenities or explicit verbal descriptions or narrative
accounts of sexual conduct.
      OBSCENITIES. Those slang words currently generally rejected for regular
use in mixed society, that are used to refer to genitals, female breasts,
sexual conduct or excretory functions or products, either that have no other
meaning or that in context are clearly used for their bodily, sexual or
excretory meaning.
      PERFORMANCE. Any play, motion picture, film, dance or other exhibition
pictured, animated or live, performed before an audience.
      SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person who
is nude or clad in undergarments or in revealing or bizarre costume, or the
condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained on the
part of one so clothed.
      SEXUAL CONDUCT. Human masturbation, sexual intercourse or any touching of
the genitals, pubic areas or buttocks of the human male or female, or the
breasts of the female, whether alone or between members of the same or opposite
sex or between humans and animals in an act of apparent sexual stimulation or
gratification.
      SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals or the
breasts of the female when in a state of sexual stimulation or the sensual
experiences of humans engaging in or witnessing sexual conduct or nudity.
   (B)   Unlawful acts. It is unlawful for any person, for a monetary
consideration or other valuable commodity or service, to knowingly or
recklessly:
      (1)   Exhibit an obscene performance;
      (2)   Directly or indirectly sell an admission ticket or other means to
gain entrance to an obscene performance; or
      (3)   Directly or indirectly permit admission of a person to premises
whereon there is exhibited an obscene performance.
   (C)   Prosecution. Any prosecution under this section shall include the
following elements:
      (1)   The average person, applying contemporary community standards,
would find the performance, taken as a whole, appealing to the prurient
interest of the audience;
      (2)   The performance describes or depicts, in a patently offensive way,
sexual conduct included in the definition of obscene performances; and
      (3)   The performance, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary,
artistic, political or scientific value.
(Prior Code, § 10.40) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOMES
      
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
153.   ABATEMENT OF HAZARDOUS BUILDINGS, GROUNDS AND FACILITIES
      
154.   ZONING
      
155.   RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Building Numbering
   
150.01   Purpose
   
150.02   Building numbers
   
150.03   Location, size and shape
   
150.04   Maintenance
   
150.05   Time for compliance
Building Code
   
150.20   Adoption
   
150.21   Additional provisions
   
150.22   Department and administrative authority
   
150.23   Fees
Moving Buildings
   
150.35   Definitions
   
150.36   Application
   
150.37   Permit and fee
   
150.38   Unlawful acts
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING NUMBERING
§ 150.01 PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that for the purpose of providing proper protection
of public and private property in the city, it is essential to require visible
approved addressing or identification for each separate public, residential,
commercial or industrial building.
(Ord. 309, Second Series, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 150.02 BUILDING NUMBERS.
   Each primary structure within the city limits has an assigned address. The
list of addresses of all primary structures within the city shall be held at
City Hall, 215 NW 1st Street.
(Ord. 309, Second Series, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 150.03 LOCATION, SIZE AND SHAPE.
   (A)   All owners of residential, commercial and industrial structures within
the city shall display their assigned address numbers on the outside of their
primary structures, near the front door, for emergency purposes. The address
number must be located on a primary structure surface facing the public road
clearly visible from the road, address numbers shall be no smaller than four
inches and colors should be in strong contrast with background. No self-
adhesive number appliques shall be used.
   (B)   (1)   In those cases where the principal building’s address is
obscured from view from the street of address by accessory buildings, trees,
shrubbery or other visual obstruction, the numbers shall be displayed on the
mailbox in numerals not less than two inches high, of a light reflective
material and of a contrasting color to the background.
      (2)   In those cases where the principal building is obscured from the
view from the street address and the residence does not have a mailbox, the
numbers shall be displayed from a permanent mounting on the property, clearly
visible from the street, displayed prominently in numerals not less than four
inches high of contrasting color to the background. The post should be within
30 feet of the road and ten feet of the driveway. The bottom of the address
sign shall be placed at a height that is no less than four feet above the level
of the surface of the road.
(Ord. 309, Second Series, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 150.04 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner of the primary structure shall be responsible for keeping its
address numbers in good repair and clear of snow, dirt, debris or other
obstructions.
(Ord. 309, Second Series, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 150.05 TIME FOR COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   All owners of primary structures in the city shall comply with this
subchapter within 45 days.
   (B)   All city licenses, applications and permits may be withheld from the
owners or occupants of primary structures if the address is not placed or
maintained in conformance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 309, Second Series, passed 4-12-2005)
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.20 ADOPTION.
   The State Building Code, one copy of which is on file in the office of the
City Administrator, is hereby adopted as the Building Code of the city and
incorporated in this subchapter as completely as if set out in full.
(Ord. 79, passed 12-1-1978)
§ 150.21 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   The following appendices and supplementary material to the State Building
Code are also adopted as a part of the Building Code of the city:
   (A)   Appendix A - Standards;
   (B)   Appendix D - Organization and Enforcement;
   (C)   Appendix E - Permits and Inspections; and
   (D)   Flood Proofing Regulations, §§ 201.2 through 208.2.
(Ord. 79, passed 12-1-1978)
§ 150.22 DEPARTMENT AND ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY.
   The BUILDING INSPECTOR is the Building Department and the CITY COUNCIL is
the administrative authority wherever those terms are used in the State
Building Code and the appendices adopted by reference in this subchapter.
(Ord. 79, passed 12-1-1978)
§ 150.23 FEES.
   (A)   Fee schedule. The fee for a building permit is in an amount set by
City Council according to the value of the construction work as defined in
Appendix E of the State Building Code.
   (B)   Surcharge. In addition to the fee required by division (A) above, the
applicant shall pay a state surcharge in the amount fixed by law. The amount
required by law shall be remitted quarterly to the State Department of
Administration.
(Ord. 79, passed 12-1-1978)
MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 150.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMBINED MOVING PERMIT. A permit to move a building on both a street and a
highway.
   HIGHWAY. A public thoroughfare for vehicular traffic which is a state trunk
highway, county state-aid highway or county road.
   HIGHWAY MOVING PERMIT. A permit to move a building on a highway for which a
fee is charged which does not include route approval, but does include
regulation of activities which do not involve the use of the highway; which
activities include, but are not limited to, repairs or alterations to a
municipal utility required by reason of the movement.
   MOVING PERMIT. A document allowing the use of a street or highway for the
purpose of moving a building.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare for vehicular traffic which is not a state
trunk highway, county state-aid highway or county road.
   STREET MOVING PERMIT. A permit to move a building on a street for which a
fee is charged which does include route approval, together with use of the
street and activities including, but not limited to, repairs or alterations to
a municipal utility required by reason of the movement.
(Prior Code, § 4.01)
§ 150.36 APPLICATION.
   The application for a moving permit shall state the dimensions, weight and
approximate loaded height of the structure or building proposed to be moved,
the places from which and to which it is to be moved, the route to be followed,
the dates and times of moving and parking, the name and address of the mover
and the municipal utility and public property repairs or alterations that will
be required by reason of the movement. In the case of a street moving permit or
combined moving permit, the application shall also state the size and weight of
the structure or building proposed to be moved and the street alterations or
repairs that will be required by reason of the movement.
(Prior Code, § 4.01)
§ 150.37 PERMIT AND FEE.
   (A)   The moving permit shall state date or dates of moving, hours, routing,
movement and parking. Permits shall be issued only for moving buildings by
building movers licensed by the state, except that a permit may be issued to a
person moving his or her own building, or a person moving a building which does
not exceed 16 feet in width, 20 feet in length or 14 feet in loaded height. Nor
shall a license be required of farmers moving their own farm buildings, nor of
persons moving manufactured or modular homes.
   (B)   Fees to be charged shall be separate for each of the following:
      (1)   A moving permit fee to cover use of streets and route approval; and
      (2)   A fee equal to the anticipated amount required to compensate the
city for any municipal utility and public property (other than streets) repairs
or alterations occasioned by the movement.
   (C)   All permit fees shall be paid in advance of issuance.
(Prior Code, § 4.01)
§ 150.38 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to move a building on any street without
a moving permit from the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to move a building on any highway
without a highway moving permit.
   (C)   It is unlawful to move any building (including a manufactured home) if
the point of origin or destination (or both) is within the city, and regardless
of the route of movement, without having paid in full all real and personal
property taxes, special assessments and municipal utility charges due on the
premises of origin and filing written proof of the payment with the city.
(Prior Code, § 4.01) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Failure to comply with any section of §§
150.01 through
150.05 shall constitute a petty misdemeanor.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish,
equip, use occupy or maintain any building or structure in the city, or cause
the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any provision of §§
150.20 through
150.23 or the codes adopted by reference in §§
150.20 through
150.23. Any person, firm or corporation violating §§
150.20 through
150.23 or any code adopted by reference in §§
150.20 through
150.23 shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each day or portion
thereof during which any violation is committed, continued or permitted and,
upon conviction of any violation, the person, firm or corporation shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than $300 or by imprisonment for not more than
90 days, or by both the fine and imprisonment, plus the costs of prosecution in
any case.
(Ord. 79, passed 12-1-1978; Ord. 309, Second Series, passed 4-12-2005)
CHAPTER 151: MANUFACTURED AND MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Manufactured (mobile) homes authorized
   
151.03   Manufactured (mobile) home parks
   
151.04   Exception
   
151.05   “Pre-Code” manufactured (mobile) homes
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MANUFACTURED HOME or MOBILE HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or
40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square
feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
systems contained therein.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or MOBILE HOME PARK. Any site, lot, field or tract
upon which two or more occupied manufactured (mobile) homes are located, either
free of charge or for compensation, and includes any building, structure, tent,
vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the equipment of the
manufactured (mobile) home park.
   UNIT. A section of ground in a manufactured (mobile) home park of not less
than 4,000 square feet of unoccupied space in an area designated as the
location for one manufactured (mobile) home, off-street parking space for one
automobile and other uses considered pertinent to the establishment and use of
a manufactured (mobile) home as permitted by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.10)
§ 151.02 MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOMES AUTHORIZED.
   The city authorizes placement of manufactured (mobile) homes outside
licensed manufactured (mobile) home parks if the homes comply with the
following conditions:
   (A)   All required permits shall be obtained for manufactured homes; and
   (B)   All homes shall:
      (1)   Comply with all regulations for the area in which they are located;
      (2)   Have ground floor space of at least 960 square feet;
      (3)   Have a width of at least 20 feet;
      (4)   Be placed on a foundation constructed of masonry, concrete or
treated wood, with footings supporting the foundation constructed of solid
masonry or concrete placed at a minimum depth of five feet below the finished
grade;
      (5)   Have exterior siding extending from within six inches of the
finished grade or two inches of foundation, which siding shall be of a
conventional exterior dwelling-type material. Any metal siding shall have
horizontal edges and overlap in sections no wider than 12 inches. Sheet metal
siding is not permitted;
      (6)   Have a pitched roof covered with shingles or tile and have eaves of
not less than six inches;
      (7)   Be built in conformance with state statutes;
      (8)   Have available for inspection, manufacturer’s instructions
specifying how the home is to be situated on a permanent foundation; and
      (9)   Have all exterior and bearing stud walls to be of at least two
inches by four inches construction.
(Prior Code, § 4.10)
§ 151.03 MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Applications.
      (1)   Applications for a special permit to establish, construct and
maintain a manufactured home park under the provisions of this chapter shall be
made to the Council.
      (2)   The application for a permit shall be accompanied by four copies of
the park plan, showing the following either existing or proposed:
         (a)   The extent and area proposed for manufactured home park
purposes;
         (b)   Roads and driveways;
         (c)   Location of sites or units for trailers;
         (d)   Locations and number of sanitary conveniences;
         (e)   Proposed disposition of surface drainage;
         (f)   Proposed street surfacing and lighting;
         (g)   Location of water and sanitary sewer lines; and
         (h)   Any other information requested by the Council.
      (3)   Each application for a special permit shall be accompanied by a
certificate of ownership on all of the property within 250 feet of any boundary
line of the proposed camp site.
      (4)   Each applicant shall be required to pay a fee, the sum to be fixed
by resolution of the Council.
      (5)   No special permit for any manufactured home park shall be issued by
the Council until after a public hearing has been held on the matter by the
Council. This hearing shall be advertised in the official newspaper of the city
at least ten days before the hearing. At least ten days prior to the public
hearing, the Council shall mail a notice of the hearing to each of the property
owners shown on the certificate of ownership at their last known address so
that they might appear and be heard.
      (6)   After the public hearing, the Council may grant or deny the
application for permit by a majority vote of its members.
   (B)   Construction permit.
      (1)   The applicant for a construction permit for the construction of a
manufactured home park or any part thereof shall comply with all of the
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Each application shall be accompanied by four copies of detailed
plans of the proposed construction and improvement of the site.
      (3)   Each application for a construction permit to construct the
manufactured home park or to expand an existing manufactured home park shall be
accompanied by plans approved by the State Department of Health showing that
the applicant is complying with all recommendations, suggestions and laws under
the jurisdiction of that Department.
      (4)   The construction permit shall be issued by the city after it has
been approved by a majority of the Council.
   (C)   Site requirements.
      (1)   Every manufactured home park shall be located on a well-drained
area and the premises shall be properly graded to prevent the accumulation of
storm or other waters.
      (2)   Each unit shall have a minimum width of 40 feet measured at right
angles to its side lines.
      (3)   Each unit shall have a gross area of not less than 4,000 square
feet.
      (4)   There shall be a minimum distance of ten feet between the trailer
and the front of the street line of the unit.
      (5)   Where an alley is provided adjacent to the back line of the unit,
there shall be a minimum setback of five feet from the back line. Where there
is no alley, the setback from the back line of the unit shall be not less than
ten feet.
      (6)   There shall be not less than five feet between a trailer and any
side line of a unit.
      (7)   There shall be not less than ten feet of space between trailers in
all directions.
      (8)   A concrete slab or patio may be constructed on the ground beside
each trailer parking space. This slab shall be not less than 160 square feet
and two inches thick.
      (9)   Skirting shall be installed around each manufactured home.
      (10)   At least one shade tree shall be placed and maintained on each
unit.
      (11)   Except for the areas used for the trailer, patio, sidewalk and
off-street parking space, the entire unit shall be sodded or seeded and
maintained with grass.
      (12)   Each unit shall abut on and have access to a street which shall be
at least 40 feet wide between gutters, except that streets may be 30 feet wide
if off-street parking of a minimum of one car space per unit is provided or if
parking is permitted on one side of the street only. The construction of the
street shall conform to the standards established by the city and specified as
a five-ton street. The streets are to be built and maintained by the owners of
the manufactured home park. All streets and ways established by the
manufactured home park are hereby declared public to the extent that they shall
be under the supervision and control of the police enforcement powers of the
city with respect to traffic laws and other laws as may be applicable to public
ways and places.
      (13)   A curb shall be constructed on each side of the street according
to specifications of the city.
      (14)   Every manufactured home park shall provide for a minimum setback
of at least 30 feet where the park abuts upon a residential area and an
adequate buffer zone shall be created through landscaping.
      (15)   The parking of more than one trailer on any single unit shall not
be permitted.
      (16)   No manufactured home may be inhabited by more than two persons per
bedroom.
      (17)   Water facilities, sewage disposal and street lighting shall be
installed and maintained by the owner of the manufactured home park and shall
be constructed in accordance with laws of the state, the recommendations of the
State Health Department and the provisions of this chapter and policies of the
city.
      (18)   Fire hydrants shall be placed throughout the area in a way as to
satisfy the District Fire Marshal that adequate fire protection is achieved.
      (19)   All boats, boat trailers, hauling trailers not used at least once
every four weeks, and all other equipment not stored within the manufactured
homes or the utility enclosure that may have been provided shall be stored in a
separate place provided by the park owner and not upon the plots occupied by
manufactured homes nor upon the streets within the manufactured home park.
   (D)   Administration.
      (1)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the
Administrator who may institute in the name of the city any appropriate actions
or proceedings against a violator as provided by law.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to violate, disobey, omit, neglect or
refuse to comply with or to resist the enforcement of any of the provisions of
this chapter.
      (3)   It is the intent and it is hereby declared that if any provision of
this chapter conflicts with any other provision, that the provision that places
the greater restrictions shall prevail and be in force and effect.
      (4)   The Council shall have the right to vary or modify the strict
application of any of the regulations or provisions contained in this chapter
in cases in which there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in
the way of strict applications.
(Prior Code, § 4.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.04 EXCEPTION.
   All homes which bear a construction seal or installation seal issued by the
Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state or HUD C.F.R. 3280
Standards, effective 6-15-1976, or built prior to the state inspection and
certification requirements in accordance with ANSI Standards A119.1 shall not
be required to comply with any other building, heating, plumbing or electrical
code or construction standards other than as defined in state statutes. Any
homes not bearing the seal, and not having complied with the codes, shall be
subject to inspection and full compliance therewith. All homes shall
be inspected prior to placement within the city, to demonstrate continuing
compliance with the codes, standards and certification. Periodic re-inspection
may be required by order of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 4.10)
§ 151.05 “PRE-CODE” MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOMES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PRE-CODE” MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOMES. Homes built prior to HUD C.F.R.
3280 Standards, effective 6-15-1976, or built prior to state inspection and
certification requirements in accordance with ANSI Standards A119.1, 7-1-1972.
   (B)   Minimum requirements for pre-code homes.
      (1)   Egress windows and exits.
         (a)   Each home shall have at least one egress window in each bedroom
that meets the minimum specifications of HUD 3280.106 and .404 for manufactured
homes. These standards require that the window be at least 22 inches in the
horizontal and vertical least dimension and at least five square foot in area,
the bottom of the window opening shall be not more than 36 inches above the
floor, and that locks and latches which need to be operated to permit exiting
not be located more than 54 inches above the finished floor, if the
requirements of the state Building Code and/or ANSI A119.1, 1972 are met, the
home shall be deemed to be in compliance with this division.
         (b)   The home shall have two exterior exit doors located remote from
each other as required in HUD 3280.105. These standards require single section
manufactured homes to have the doors not less than 12-foot center to center
from each other and multi-section manufactured home doors to be not less than
20-foot center to center from each other measured in a straight line direction
regardless of the length of path of travel between doors. One of the required
exit doors must be accessible from the doorway of each bedroom without
traveling more than 35 feet. Exterior swing doors shall have a minimum 28-inch
by 74-inch clear opening and sliding glass doors shall have a 28-inch by 72-
inch clear opening...MISSING MATERIAL...shall have a key-operated lock that has
a deadlocking latch or a key-operated dead bolt with a passage latch, and locks
shall not require the use of a key or special tool for operation from the
inside of the home.
      (2)   Flame spread.
         (a)   Walls and ceilings adjacent to or enclosing a furnace or water
heater shall have an interior finish with flame spread rating not exceeding 25.
Sealants and other trim materials two inches or less used to finish adjacent
surfaces within these spaces are exempt from this provision provided all joints
are supported by framing members or materials with a 25 or less flame spread
rating. Combustible doors providing interior or exterior access to furnace and
water heater spaces shall be covered with materials of limited combustion
(i.e., five-sixteenth inch gypsum board and the like) with the surface a
allowed to be interrupted for louvers ventilating the space. However, the
louvers shall not be of materials of greater combustibility than the door
itself (i.e., plastic louvers and a wooden door). Reference HUD 3280.203.
         (b)   Exposed interior finished surfaces, including vertical surfaces
between range top and overhead cabinets and/or ceiling, shall have a flame
spread rating not exceeding 50 as required by HUD 3280.203. Back splashes not
exceeding six inches in height are exempted. Vertical clearance above cook tops
and ranges shall be not less than 24 inches as required by HUD 3280.709.
      (3)   Smoke detectors.
         (a)   A smoke detector shall be installed on any wall in the hallway
or space communicating with each bedroom area between the living area and the
first bedroom as required by HUD 3280.208. Homes with bedroom areas separated
by any one or a combination of common-use areas such as a kitchen, dining room,
living room or family room (but not a bathroom or utility room) shall be
required to have one detector for each bedroom area.
         (b)   Smoke detectors shall not have switches in the circuit to the
detector between the over-current protection device protecting the branch
circuit and the detector. The detector shall be attached to an electrical
outlet box and connected by a permanent wiring method into a general electrical
circuit. The detector shall not be placed on a branch circuit or any circuit
protected by a ground fault circuit interrupter.
      (4)   Solid fuel burning stoves and fireplaces.
         (a)   Solid fuel-burning factory-built fireplaces and fireplace stoves
may be used in manufactured (mobile) homes; provided, that they are listed for
use in manufactured homes and installed as per their listing/manufacturers’
instructions and the minimum requirements of HUD 3230.710.
         (b)   A solid fuel burning fireplace or fireplace stove shall be
equipped with integral doors designed to close the fire chamber opening and
shall include complete means for venting through the roof, a combustion air
inlet or hearth extension, and means to securely attach the unit to the
manufactured home structure.
            1.   A listed factory-built chimney designed to be attached
directly to the fireplace/fireplace-stove and equipped with, in accordance with
the listing, a termination device and spark arrester shall be required. The
chimney shall extend at least three feet above the part of the roof through
which it passes and at least two feet above the highest elevation of any part
of the manufactured home within ten feet of the chimney.
            2.   An air intake assembly shall be installed in accordance with
the terms of listings/manufacturers’ instructions. A combustion air inlet shall
conduct the air directly into the fire chamber and shall be designed to prevent
material from the hearth dropping onto the area beneath the manufactured home.
            3.   The hearth extension shall be of noncombustible material a
minimum of three- eighths inch thick, shall extend a minimum of 16 inches in
front and eight inches beyond each side of the fireplace/fireplace-stove
opening. The hearth shall also extend over the entire surface beneath a
fireplace stove and beneath an elevated or overhanging fireplace.
      (5)   Support systems. Pre-Code homes built prior to 6-15-1976, are
required to be installed (set-up) in accordance with the standards of the State
Building Code, Chapter 1350.
      (6)   Aluminum wiring. All electrical systems shall be tested for
continuity to assure that metallic parts are properly bonded, tested for
operation to demonstrate that all equipment is connected and in working order,
and undergo a polarity check to determine that connections are proper. The
electrical system shall be properly protected for the required amperage load.
If the unit is of aluminum conductors, all receptacles and switches rated 20
amperes or less directly connected to the aluminum conductor shall be marked
CO/ALR. Exterior receptacles other than heat tape receptacles shall be of the
ground fault circuit interrupter (GFI) type. Conductors of dissimilar metals
(copper/aluminum/or copper-clad aluminum) must be connected in accordance with
the National Electrical Code.
      (7)   Replacement furnaces and water heaters.
         (a)   If the manufactured (mobile) home has had or is to receive a
replacement furnace or water heater, it shall be listed for use in a
manufactured (mobile) home. Vents, roof jacks and chimneys necessary for the
installation shall be listed for use with the furnace or water heater.
         (b)   The furnace and water heater shall be secured in place to avoid
displacement. Every furnace and water heater shall be accessible for servicing
and/or replacement.
         (c)   Furnaces and water heaters shall be installed to provide
complete separation of the combustion system from the interior atmosphere of
the manufactured home as required by HUD 3280.709.
         (d)   The floor area in the water heater area shall be free from
damage from moisture and the like to assure that the floor will support the
weight of the water heater and water contained within.
      (8)   Gas line testing. The gas piping for each pre-code home shall be
tested with the appliance valves removed from the piping and capped at those
areas. The piping shall withstand a pressure of at least six inches mercury or
three psi gauge for a period of not less than ten minutes without showing any
drop in pressure. Pressure shall be measured with a mercury manometer or a shop
gauge calibrated so as to read in increments of not greater than one-tenths
pound or equivalent device. The source of normal operating pressure shall be
isolated before the pressure test is made. After the appliance connections are
reinstalled, the piping system and connections shall be tested with line
pressure of not less than ten inches, nor more than 14 inches, water column air
pressure. The appliance connections shall be tested for leakage with soapy
water or bubble solution.
(Ord. passed 6-21-1995)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Jurisdiction
   
152.03   Application of chapter
   
152.04   Approvals necessary for acceptance of subdivision plats
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Registered land surveys and conveyance by metes and bounds
   
152.07   Compliance
   
152.08   Unlawful acts
Plat Procedure and Plans
   
152.20   Preliminary plat
   
152.21   Final plat
   
152.22   Plan requirements
Design Standards
   
152.40   Blocks
   
152.41   Streets and alleys
   
152.42   Lots
   
152.43   Easements
   
152.44   Public sites and open spaces
Improvements
   
152.55   General
   
152.56   Street improvements
   
152.57   Public utilities
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   In order to safeguard the best interests of the city and to assist the
subdivider in harmonizing his or her interests with those of the city at large,
this chapter is adopted in order that adherence to same will bring results
beneficial to both parties. Because each new subdivision becomes a permanent
unit in the basic unit structure of the expanding community, and to which the
community will be forced to adhere, and because piecemeal planning of
subdivisions will bring an undesirable disconnected patchwork of pattern and
poor circulation of traffic unless its design and arrangement is correlated to
a comprehensive plan aiming at a unified scheme of community interests, all
subdivision of land hereafter submitted for approval to the city shall, in all
respects, fully comply with the regulations hereinafter set forth. It is the
purpose of this chapter to make certain regulations and requirements for the
platting of land within the city pursuant to the authority contained in M.S.
Chapters 429, 471 and 505, as may be amended from time to time, which
regulations the Council deems necessary for the health, safety and general
welfare of the city.
(Prior Code, § 11.01)
§ 152.02 JURISDICTION.
   The regulations herein governing plats and subdivision of lands shall apply
within the corporate limits of the city and the unincorporated area within two
miles of its limits.
(Prior Code, § 11.01)
§ 152.03 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   Any plat, hereafter made, for each subdivision or each part thereof lying
within the jurisdiction of this chapter, shall be prepared, presented for
approval, and recorded as herein prescribed. The regulations contained herein
shall apply to the subdivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two or
more lots, tracts or other division of land for the purpose of sale or of
building development, whether immediate or future, including the resubdivision
or replatting of land or lots. Division of land in tracts larger than two and
one-half acres in area and 150 feet in width shall be exempt from the
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11.01)
§ 152.04 APPROVALS NECESSARY FOR ACCEPTANCE OF SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   Before any plat shall be recorded or be of any validity, it shall have been
approved by the Council, as having fulfilled the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11.01)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by
streets or by streets and the exterior boundaries of the subdivision.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The group of maps, charts and texts that make up the
comprehensive long-range plan of the city.
   DESIGN STANDARDS. The specifications to land owners or subdividers for the
preparation of plats, both preliminary and final, indicating among other things
the optimum, minimum or maximum dimensions of such items as right-of-way,
blocks, easements and lots.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land for the
purpose of construction and maintaining utilities, including, but not limited
to, sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines, telephone lines, storm sewer
or storm drainageways and gas lines.
   FINAL PLAT. A drawing or map of a subdivision, meeting all the requirements
of the city and in a form as required by the county for purposes of recording.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for
building development or for transfer of ownership.
   PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS. Public lands and open spaces in the city dedicated or
reserved for and usable for recreation purposes.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public or private right-of-way across a block or within a
block used by pedestrians and which may be used for the installation of utility
lines.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A tentative drawing or map of a proposed subdivision
meeting requirements herein enumerated.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts made between private parties as to the
manner in which land may be used, with the view to protecting and preserving
the physical and economic integrity of any given area.
   STREET. A public right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrians and
vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place or
however otherwise designated.
   SUBDIVISION. A described tract of land which is to be or has been divided
into two or more lots or parcels, any of which resultant parcels is less than
two and one-half acres in area, for the purpose of
transfer of ownership or building development or, if a new street is involved,
any division of a parcel of land. The term includes resubdivision and, where it
is appropriate to the context, relates either to the process of subdividing or
to the land subdivided.
(Prior Code, § 11.01)
§ 152.06 REGISTERED LAND SURVEYS AND CONVEYANCE BY METES AND BOUNDS.
   (A)   Registered land surveys. It is the intention of this chapter that all
registered land surveys in the city should be presented to the Council in the
form of a preliminary plat in accordance with the standards set forth in this
chapter for preliminary plats and that the Council shall first approve the
arrangement sizes and relationship of proposed tracts in the registered land
surveys, and that tracts to be used as easements or roads should be so
dedicated. Unless Council approval in accordance with the standards set forth
in this chapter have been obtained, building permits will be withheld for
buildings on tracts which have been so subdivided by registered land surveys
and the city may refuse to take over tracts as streets or roads or to improve,
repair or maintain any tracts unless so approved.
   (B)   Conveyance by metes and bounds. No conveyance of two or more parcels
in which the land conveyed is described by metes and bounds shall be made or
recorded if the parcels described in the conveyance are less than two and one-
half acres in area and 150 feet in width unless the parcel was a separate
parcel of record at the effective date of this chapter. Building permits will
be withheld for buildings on tracts which have been subdivided and conveyed by
this method and the city may refuse to take over tracts as streets or roads or
to improve, repair or maintain any tracts.
(Prior Code, § 11.06)
§ 152.07 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Conditions for recording. No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled
to record in the County Recorder’s office or have any validity until the plat
thereof has been prepared, approved and acknowledged in the manner prescribed
by this chapter.
   (B)   Building permits. No building permits will be issued by the city for
the construction of any building, structure or improvement to the land or to
any lot in a subdivision, as defined herein, until all requirements of this
chapter have been fully complied with.
(Prior Code, § 11.07)
§ 152.08 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   Sale of lots from unrecorded plats. It is unlawful to sell, trade or
otherwise convey or offer to sell, trade or otherwise convey any lot or parcel
of land as a part of, or in conformity with any plan, plat or replat of any
subdivision or portion of the city unless the plan, plat or replat shall have
first been recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
   (B)   Receiving or recording unapproved plats. It is unlawful to receive or
record in any public office any plans, plats or replats of land laid out in
building lots and streets, alleys or other portions of the same intended to be
dedicated to public or private use, or for the use of purchasers or owners of
lots fronting on or adjacent thereto, and located within the jurisdiction of
this chapter, unless the same shall bear thereon, by endorsement or otherwise,
the approval of the Council.
   (C)   Misrepresentations as to constructions, supervision or inspection of
improvements. It is unlawful for any person owning an addition or subdivision
of land within the city to represent that any improvement upon any of the
streets, alleys or avenues of the addition or subdivision or any sewer in the
addition or subdivision has been constructed according to the plans and
specifications approved by the Council, or has been supervised or inspected by
the City Engineer, when the improvements have not been so constructed,
supervised or inspected.
(Prior Code, § 11.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
PLAT PROCEDURE AND PLANS
§ 152.20 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Approval of the Planning Commission. The preliminary plat shall be
submitted to the city. In case the plat is disapproved, the subdivider shall be
notified of the reason for the action and what requirements will be necessary
to meet the approval of the city.
   (B)   Approval of the Council.
      (1)   After review and approval of the preliminary plat by the city of
the preliminary plat, a published notice shall be given of a public hearing to
be held within 15 days thereafter; in a newspaper published in the city or in
the county. At the hearing, all persons interested therein may be heard and the
Council may thereafter approve or disapprove the plat. Approval or disapproval
of the preliminary plat will be conveyed to the subdivider in writing within
ten days after the meeting of the Council at which the plat was considered. In
case the plat is disapproved, the subdivider shall be notified of the reason
for the action and what requirements will be necessary to meet the approval of
the Council. The approval of the preliminary plat does not constitute an
acceptance of the subdivision, but is deemed to be an authorization to proceed
with the preparation of the final plat. This approval of the preliminary plat
shall be effective for a period of one year, unless an extension is granted by
the Council. The subdivider may file a final plat limited to the portion of the
preliminary plat which he or she proposes to record and develop at the time;
provided that, the portion must conform to all requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   If some portion of the final plat has not been submitted for
approval within this period, a preliminary plat must again be submitted to the
Council for approval.
(Prior Code, § 11.02)
§ 152.21 FINAL PLAT.
   After the preliminary plat has been approved, the final plat may be
submitted for approval as follows: If accepted, the final plat shall be
approved by resolution, which resolution shall provide for the acceptance of
all streets, alleys, easements or other public ways and parks, or other open
spaces dedicated to public purposes. If disapproved, the grounds for any
refusal to approve a plat shall be set forth in the proceedings of the Council
and reported to the person or persons applying for the approval.
(Prior Code, § 11.02)
§ 152.22 PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Preliminary plat. The owner or subdivider shall prepare and submit a
preliminary plat, together with any necessary supplementary information.
      (1)   Filing. One copy of a preliminary plat and one copy of a vicinity
sketch of any proposed subdivision shall be filed with the Council.
      (2)   Contents. The preliminary plat shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   Proposed name of subdivision. Names shall not duplicate or too
closely resemble names of existing subdivision;
         (b)   Location of boundary lines in relation to section, quarter
section or quarter-quarter section lines and any adjacent corporate boundaries,
comprising a legal description of the property;
         (c)   Names and addresses of the developer and the designer making the
plat;
         (d)   Scale of plat, not less than one inch to 100 feet;
         (e)   Date and northpoint;
         (f)   Existing conditions:
            1.   Location, width and name of each existing or platted street or
other public way, railroad, the utility right-of-way, parks and other public
open spaces, and permanent buildings, within or adjacent to the proposed
subdivision;
            2.   All existing sewers, water mains, gas mains, culverts or other
underground installations within the proposed subdivision or immediately
adjacent thereto, with pipe size, grades and locations shown;
            3.   Names of adjacent subdivisions and owners of adjacent parcels
of unsubdivided land; and
            4.   The location of water courses, ravines, bridges, lakes, wooded
areas, approximate acreage and other features as may be pertinent to
subdivision.
         (g)   Proposed development:
            1.   The location and width of proposed streets, roadways, alleys,
pedestrian ways and easements;
            2.   The location and character of all proposed public utility
lines, including sewers (storm and sanitary) water, gas and power lines;
            3.   Layout, numbers and approximate dimensions of lots and the
number or letter of each block;
            4.   Location and size of proposed parks, playgrounds, churches or
school sites or other special uses of land to be considered for dedication to
public use, or to be reserved by deed of covenant for the use of all property
owners in the subdivision and any conditions of the dedication or reservation;
            5.   Building setback lines with dimensions;
            6.   Indication of any lots on which use other than residential is
proposed by the subdivider; and
            7.   The zoning districts, if any, on and adjacent to the tract.
      (3)   Supplementary requirements.
         (a)   Two copies of profiles shall be furnished for each proposed
street, showing existing grades and proposed approximate grades and gradients
on the center lines. The location of proposed culverts and bridges shall also
be shown.
         (b)   Vicinity sketch, at a legible scale, to show the relation of the
plat to its surroundings, shall be shown on the preliminary plat, or accompany
it. Utility connections too remote to be shown on the preliminary plat shall be
shown on this sketch.
   (B)   Final plat. The owner or subdivider shall submit a final plat together
with any necessary supplementary information.
      (1)   Filing. Three copies of a final plat shall be filed with the
Council together with additional copies as required for approval by county
authorities.
      (2)   Contents.
         (a)   The final plat prepared for recording purposes shall be prepared
in accordance with provisions of state statutes and county regulations;
         (b)   Name of subdivision (not to duplicate or too closely approximate
the name of any existing subdivision);
         (c)   Location by section, township, range and including descriptive
boundaries of the subdivision;
         (d)   The location of monuments shall be shown and described on the
final plat. Permanent markers shall be placed at each corner of every block or
portion of a block, and at each angle point on the boundary of the subdivision.
A permanent marker shall be deemed to be a steel rod or pipe, one-half inch or
longer in diameter extending at least three feet below the finished grade.
Permanent monuments shall be placed at all quarter section points within the
subdivision or on its perimeter;
         (e)   Location of lots, street, public highway, alleys, parks and
other features, with accurate dimensions in feet and decimals of feet, with the
length or arcs of all curves, and with all other information necessary to
reproduce the plat on the ground. Dimensions shall be shown from all angle
points and points of curve to lot lines;
         (f)   Lots shall be numbered clearly. If blocks are to be numbered or
lettered, these should be shown clearly in the center of the block;
         (g)   The exact locations, widths and names of all streets to be
dedicated;
         (h)   Location and width of all easements to be dedicated;
         (i)   Boundary lines and description of boundary lines of any areas
other than streets and alleys which are to be dedicated or reserved for public
use;
         (j)   Building setback lines on front and side streets with
dimensions;
         (k)   Name and address of developer and surveyor making the plat;
         (l)   Scale of plat (the scale to be shown graphically and in feet per
inch), date and northpoint;
         (m)   Statement dedicating all easements as follows: Easements for
installation and maintenance of utilities and drainage facilities are reserved
over, under and along the strips marked “utility easements”;
         (n)   Statement dedicating all streets, alleys and other public areas
not previously dedicated as follows: streets, alleys and other public areas
shown on this plat and not heretofore dedicated to public use are hereby so
dedicated; and
         (o)   Statement establishing building setback lines as follows:
Building setback lines are hereby established as shown on the accompanying plat
and no building or portion thereof shall be built between this line and the
street line.
      (3)   Filing fee.
         (a)   The final plat shall be accompanied by a required fee in an
amount set by City Council.
         (b)   The foregoing fee is to be used for the expense of the city in
connection with the review, inspection, approval or disapproval of the plat
which may thereafter be submitted.
      (4)   Certifications required on final plats.
         (a)   Notarized certification by owner, and by any mortgage holder of
record, of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and other
public areas;
         (b)   Notarized certification by a registered land surveyor, to the
effect that the plat represents a survey made by him or her and that monuments
and markers shown therein exist as located and that all dimensional and
geodetic details are correct; and
         (c)   The form of approval by the Council is as follows:
Approved by the Council of the City of Clara City, Minnesota this
               day of                               ,                  .
                                                                                                   
Mayor
                                                                                                   
City Clerk
      (5)   Supplementary documents and information.
         (a)   A complete set of street profiles showing grade lines as
constructed; and
         (b)   Copies of any private restrictions affecting the subdivision or
any part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 11.03)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 152.40 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Block length. In general, intersecting streets, determining block
lengths, shall be provided at intervals as to serve cross-traffic adequately
and to meet existing streets. Where no existing plats control, the blocks in
residential subdivision shall normally not exceed 1,320 feet in length, except
where topography or other conditions justify a departure from this maximum. In
blocks longer than 800 feet, pedestrian ways and/or easements through the block
may be required near the center of the block. Blocks for business or industrial
use should normally not exceed 600 feet in length.
   (B)   Block width. The width of the block shall normally be sufficient to
allow two tiers of lots of appropriate depth. Blocks intended for business or
industrial use shall be of a width as to be considered most suitable for their
respective use, including adequate space for off-street parking and deliveries.
(Prior Code, § 11.04)
§ 152.41 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   The arrangement of thoroughfares and streets shall conform as nearly
as possible to a comprehensive plan. Streets normally shall connect with
streets already dedicated in adjoining or adjacent subdivisions, or provide for
future connections to adjoining unsubdivided tracts, or shall be a reasonable
projection of streets in the nearest subdivided tracts. The arrangement of
thoroughfares and streets shall be considered in their relation to the
reasonable circulation of traffic, to topographic conditions, to runoff of
storm water, to public convenience and safety and in their appropriate relation
to the proposed uses of the area to be served.
   (B)   Minor streets should be so planned as to discourage their use by non-
local traffic. Deadend streets will be permitted where topography or other
conditions justify their use, and shall normally not be longer than 500 feet,
including a turnaround which shall be provided at the closed end, with an
outside curb radius of at least 40 feet and a right-of-way radius of not less
than 50 feet.
   (C)   Where the plat to be submitted includes only part of the tract owned
or intended for development by the subdivider, a tentative plan of a proposed
future street system for the unsubdivided portion shall be prepared and
submitted by the subdivider.
   (D)   When a tract is subdivided into larger than normal building lots or
parcels, the lots or parcels shall be so arranged as to permit the logical
location and opening of future streets and appropriate resubdivision, with
provision for adequate utility connections for the resubdivision.
   (E)   Under normal conditions, streets shall be laid out so as to intersect
as nearly as possible at right angles, except where topography or other
conditions justify variations. The minimum angle of
intersection shall be 80 degrees. Street intersection jogs with an off-set of
less than 125 feet shall be avoided.
   (F)   Wherever the proposed subdivision contains or is adjacent to a
railroad right-of-way or the right-of-way of a limited access highway or
thoroughfare, provision should be made for a marginal access street
approximately parallel and adjacent to the boundary of the rights-of-way, or
for a street at a distance suitable for the appropriate use of land between the
street and right-of-way. The distance shall be determined with due
consideration of the minimum distance required for approach connections to
future grade separations or for lot depths.
   (G)   (1)   Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industry districts,
except that this requirement may be waived where other definite and assured
provision is made for service access, such as off-street loading, unloading and
parking consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed. Except where
justified by special conditions, such as the continuation of an existing alley
in the same block, alleys shall not be less than 20 feet.
      (2)   Deadend alleys may be approved if adequate turn-around facilities
are provided at the closed end.
   (H)   Dedication of half streets will not be approved, except where it is
essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision and in conformity
with the other requirements of these regulations where it is found that it will
be practical to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is subdivided or where it becomes necessary to acquire the remaining
half by condemnation so it may be improved in the public interest.
   (I)   (1)   For all public ways hereafter dedicated and accepted, the
minimum right-of-way widths for streets, thoroughfares, alleys or pedestrian
ways included in any subdivision shall not be less than the minimum dimensions
for each classification as follows:
 
Alley                  20 feet
Major thoroughfare     80 feet
Marginal access street 24 feet
Minor street           40 feet
Pedestrian way         8 feet
Secondary thoroughfare 60 feet
 
      (2)   Where existing or anticipated traffic on major and secondary
thoroughfares warrants greater widths of rights-of-way, these shall be
required.
   (J)   (1)   The grades in all streets, thoroughfares, collector streets,
minor streets and alleys in any subdivision shall not be greater than the
maximum grades for each classification as follows:
 
Alley                  8%
Major thoroughfare     5%
Minor street           8%
Secondary thoroughfare 5%
 
      (2)   In addition, there shall be a minimum grade on all streets and
thoroughfares of not less than 1%.
   (K)   All proposed streets shall be offered for dedication as public
streets. No private streets will be allowed.
(Prior Code, § 11.04)
§ 152.42 LOTS.
   (A)   The minimum width of a lot for residential development shall be 65
feet for a rectangular lot and not less than 65 feet at the front building
setback line for lots whose side lines are radial to the curved streets and the
depth of the lot shall not be less than 125 feet, except in unusual situations.
In no case shall a lot in a residential district contain less than 5,000 square
feet. Excessive depth in relation to width shall be avoided. In subdivisions
where septic tanks or other individual sewage disposal devices and/or
individual water supply systems are to be installed, the size of all lots
included in the subdivision shall be as follows:
 
15,000 square feet On lot sewage disposal and on lot water supply
12,000 square feet On lot sewage disposal
10,000 square feet On lot water supply
 
   (B)   Corner lots for residential use shall have additional width to permit
appropriate building setback from both streets as may be defined in city zoning
provisions, if any.
   (C)   Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right angles to street
lines or radial to curved street lines.
   (D)   Double frontage lots shall be avoided, except where lots back on a
thoroughfare or other arterial street or where topographic or other conditions
render subdividing otherwise unreasonable. The double frontage lots shall have
an additional depth of at least 20 feet in order to allow space for screen
planting along the back lot line.
   (E)   Every lot must have at least the minimum required frontage on a public
dedicated street other than an alley.
(Prior Code, § 11.04)
§ 152.43 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   An easement for utilities, at least six feet wide, shall be provided
along each side of a side line of lots and/or the rear line of lots where
necessary to form a continuous right-of-way, at least 12 feet in width. If
necessary for the extension of main water or sewer lines or similar utilities,
easements of greater width may be required along lot lines or across lots.
   (B)   Utility easements shall connect with easements established in
adjoining properties. These easements, when approved, shall not thereafter be
changed without the approval of the Council, by ordinance, upon the
recommendation of the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Additional easements for pole guys should be provided at the outside
turns. Where possible, lot lines shall be arranged to bisect the exterior angle
so that pole guys will fall along the side lot lines.
   (D)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a water course, drainageway,
channel or stream, a storm water easement, drainage right-of-way or park
dedication, whichever the Planning Commission may deem the most adequate,
conforming substantially with the line of the water courses shall be provided,
together with such further width or construction or both, as will be adequate
for the storm water drainage of the area. Width of the easements shall be
determined by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 11.04)
§ 152.44 PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES.
   In subdividing land or resubdividing an existing plat, due consideration
shall be given by the subdivider to the dedication or reservation of suitable
sites for schools, parks, playgrounds or other public or semi-public
recreational areas or open spaces. All areas to be reserved for or dedicated to
public use shall be indicated on the preliminary plat in order that it may be
determined when and in what manner the areas will be dedicated to or acquired
by the appropriate agency.
(Prior Code, § 11.04)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 152.55 GENERAL.
   (A)   Before a final plat is approved by the Council, the owner and
subdivider of the land covered by the plat shall execute and submit to the
Council an agreement which shall be binding on his, her or their heirs,
personal representatives and assigns, that he, she or it will cause no private
construction to be made on the plat or file or cause to be filed any
application for building permits for the construction until all improvements
required under this chapter have been made or arranged for in the manner
following as respects the streets to which the lots sought to be constructed
have access.
   (B)   Prior to the making of the required improvements, the owner or
subdivider shall deposit with the City Administrator an amount equal to one and
one-half times the City Engineer’s estimated cost of the improvements, either
in cash or an indemnity bond, with sureties satisfactory to the city,
conditioned upon the payment of all construction costs incurred in making of
the improvements and all expense incurred by the city for engineering and legal
fees and other expense in connection with the making of the improvements.
   (C)   No final plat shall be approved by the Council without first receiving
a report from the City Engineer certifying that the improvements described
herein, together with the agreements and documents required herein, meet the
minimum requirements of all applicable city code provisions. Drawings showing
all improvements as built shall be filed with the City Engineer.
   (D)   No final plat shall be approved by the Council on land subject to
flooding or containing poor drainage facilities and on land which would make
adequate drainage of the streets and lots impossible. However, if the
subdivider agrees to make improvements which will, in the opinion of the City
Engineer, make the area completely safe for residential occupancy, and provide
adequate street and lot drainage, the final plat of the subdivision may be
approved.
   (E)   All of the required improvements to be installed under the provisions
of this chapter shall be inspected during the course of their construction by
the City Engineer or an inspector appointed by the Council. All of the
inspection costs pursuant thereto shall be paid by the owner or subdivider in
the manner prescribed in division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 11.05)
§ 152.56 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The full width of the right-of-way shall be graded, including the
subgrade of the areas to be paved, in accordance with standards and
specifications for street construction as approved by the Council.
   (B)   Storm sewers, culverts, storm water inlets and other drainage
facilities will be required where, in the opinion of the City Engineer, they
are necessary to ensure adequate storm water drainage for the subdivision.
Where required, the drainage facilities shall be constructed in accordance to
the standards and specifications for street construction as approved by the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 11.05)
§ 152.57 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   All utility lines for telephone and electric service shall be placed
in rear line easements when carried on overhead poles.
   (B)   Where telephone, electric and/or gas service lines are to be placed
underground entirely, conduits or cables shall be placed within easements or
dedicated public ways, in a manner so as not to conflict with other underground
services. All drainage and other underground utility installations which
traverse privately owned property shall be protected by easements.
(Prior Code, § 11.05)
CHAPTER 153: ABATEMENT OF HAZARDOUS BUILDINGS, GROUNDS AND FACILITIES
Section
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Abatement procedure
Cross-reference:
   For additional provisions regarding nuisances, see
Ch. 91
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that for the purpose of providing protection of
public and private property in the city, abatement of hazardous buildings,
grounds and facilities must be addressed, for the general health, safety, and
welfare of its residents.
(Ord. 343, passed 11-12-2020)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   HAZARDOUS BUILDINGS, GROUNDS OR FACILITIES are defined as:
   (A)   ABANDONED, DERELICT BUILDINGS, GROUNDS OR FACILITIES. Abandoned
buildings, grounds, or facilities, including buildings or structures with
broken and un-boarded windows, collapsed roofs, deteriorated fences, walls or
screening, accumulations of unused materials or supplies, hazardous waste or
materials, or other hazardous conditions affecting the health, safety and
welfare of its residents.
   (B)   DETERIORATED BUILDINGS, GROUNDS OR FACILITIES. Deteriorated buildings,
grounds or facilities of any kind that are in danger of collapse, permit entry
by children, vagrants and animals is or are in such poor state of repair,
accumulations or degradation that they cause a devaluation of the properties in
the neighborhood.
   (C)   Adopted by reference. Additionally, the Uniform Code for the Abatement
of Dangerous Buildings adopted by the International Conference of Building
Officials, with amendments thereto, is hereby adopted for purposes of reference
and definition of hazardous buildings, grounds, and facilities and shall be in
full force and effect in the city on such hazardous buildings, grounds, or
facilities.
(Ord. 343, passed 11-12-2020)
§ 153.03 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   First notice. If a hazardous condition is found to be present,
the city will provide a letter to the owner(s) or record, either by certified
mail, posting one time in the official newspaper, or by posting on the
building, a 30-day notice to abate the hazardous condition.
      (2)   If the hazardous condition is deemed to be an immediate threat,
then the city may proceed immediately to the second notice without regard to
the first notice requirements.
   (B)   Second notice. If no corrective action is taken within 30 days, then
the City Council by resolution, may describe the same and require the owner of
such premises, to take reasonable steps within a reasonable time, which shall
both be set out in the resolution, to abate the hazard. The resolution shall
also fix a time and place when the person or persons upon whom the resolution
is served may appear before the Council and be heard as to any objections
concerning the proposed action of the Council. Such resolution shall be served
upon the person or persons therein required to abate the hazard, in person or
by certified mail, and if the address of the owner is unknown, service on the
owner may be had by posting one time in the official newspaper, or by posting a
copy of the resolution on the premises. Service may be proved by filing in the
office of the City Clerk setting forth the manner and the time thereof.
   (C)   Abatement by city; expense responsibility of owner. If, after such
service of the resolution, the party or parties served fails to abate the
hazard in accordance with the terms of the resolution, and after having heard
the objections thereto, if any, the Council does not determine otherwise, the
Council may cause such hazard to be abated at the expense of the city and
recover such expenditure, either by civil action against the person or persons
served or, if service has been had upon the owner, by ordering the City Clerk
to extend such sum plus 25% thereof as a special tax against the property upon
which the hazard existed and to certify the same to the county auditor for
collection in the manner as taxes and special assessments are collected.
(Ord. 343, passed 11-12-2020)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
[The Zoning Code of Clara City as adopted April, 1966 and subsequently amended,
is separately bound, but is incorporated herein as if set out in full.]
CHAPTER 155: RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
155.01   Findings, purpose and intent
   
155.02   Election to manage public rights-of-way
   
155.03   Definitions
   
155.04   Administration
   
155.05   Utility Coordination Committee
   
155.06   Registration and right-of-way occupancy
   
155.07   Registration information
   
155.08   Reporting obligations
   
155.09   Permit requirements
   
155.10   Permit applications
   
155.11   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
155.12   Permit fees
   
155.13   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
155.14   Joint and individual applications
   
155.15   Supplementary applications
   
155.16   Other obligations
   
155.17   Denial of permit
   
155.18   Installation requirements
   
155.19   Inspection
   
155.20   Work done without a permit
   
155.21   Supplementary notification
   
155.22   Revocation of permits
   
155.23   Mapping data
   
155.24   Undergrounding
   
155.25   Location and relocation of facilities
   
155.26   Pre-excavation facilities location
   
155.27   Interference by other facilities
   
155.28   Right-of-way vacation - reservation of right
   
155.29   Indemnification and liability
   
155.30   Abandoned facilities
   
155.31   Appeal
   
155.32   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
   
155.33   Severability
§ 155.01 FINDINGS, PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   To provide for the health, safety and welfare of its citizens, and to
ensure the integrity of its streets and the appropriate use of the rights-of-
way, the city strives to keep its rights-of-way in a state of good repair and
free from unnecessary encumbrances.
   (B)   Accordingly, the city enacts this new chapter relating to right-of-way
permits and administration. This chapter imposes reasonable regulation on the
placement and maintenance of facilities and equipment currently within the
city's rights-of-way or to be placed therein at some future time. It is
intended to complement the regulatory roles of state and federal agencies.
Under this chapter, persons excavating and obstructing the rights-of-way will
bear financial responsibility for their work through the recovery of out-of-
pocket and projected costs from persons using the public rights-of-way.
   (C)   This section shall be interpreted consistently with 1997 Session Laws,
Chapter 123, substantially codified in M.S. §§ 237.16, 237.162, 237.163,
237.79, 237.81, and 238.086 (the "Act") and the other laws governing applicable
rights of the city and users of the right-of-way. This section shall also be
interpreted consistent with Minn. Rules 7819.0050 - 7819.9950 where possible.
To the extent that any provision of this section cannot be interpreted
consistently with the Minnesota Rules, the interpretation most consistent with
the Act and other applicable statutory and case law is intended.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.02 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative and common law, the city elects pursuant to M.S. §
237.163, subd. 2(b), to manage rights-of-way within its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply in this section. References to divisions are
unless otherwise specified references to divisions in this chapter.
   ABANDONED FACILITY. A facility no longer in service or physically
disconnected from a portion of the operating facility, or from any other
facility, that is in use or still carries service. A facility is not abandoned
unless declared so by the right-of-way user.
   APPLICANT. Any person requesting permission to excavate or obstruct a right-
of-way.
   CITY. The City of Clara City, Minnesota. For purposes of this section, CITY
means its elected officials, officers, employees and agents.
   COMMISSION. The Minnesota Public Utilities Commission.
   CONGESTED RIGHT-OF-WAY. A crowded condition in the subsurface of the public
right-of-way that occurs when the maximum lateral spacing between existing
underground facilities does not allow for construction of new underground
facilities without using hand digging to expose the existing lateral facilities
in conformance with M.S. § 216D.04, subd. 3, over a continuous length in excess
of 500 feet.
   CONSTRUCTION PERFORMANCE BOND. Any of the following forms of security
provided at permittee's option:
      (1)   Individual project bond, including a "license and permit" bond;
      (2)   Cash deposit;
      (3)   Security of a form listed or approved under M.S. § 15.73, subd. 2;
      (4)   Letter of credit, in a form acceptable to the city;
      (5)   Self-insurance, in a form acceptable to the city;
      (6)   A blanket bond for projects within the city, or other form of
construction bond, for a time specified and in a form acceptable to the city.
   DEGRADATION. A decrease in the useful life of the right-of-way caused by
excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct such right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
or disturbance did not occur.
   DEGRADATION COST. Subject to Minn. Rules 7819.1100, means the cost to
achieve a level of restoration as determined by the city at the time the permit
is issued, not to exceed the maximum restoration shown in plates 1 to 13, set
forth in Minn. Rules parts 7819.9900 to 7819.9950.
   DEGRADATION FEE. The estimated fee established at the time of permitting by
the city to recover costs associated with the decrease in the useful life of
the right-of-way caused by the excavation, and which equals the degradation
cost.
   DELAY PENALTY. The penalty imposed as a result of unreasonable delays in
right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration as established
by permit.
   DEPARTMENT INSPECTOR. Any person authorized by the city to carry out
inspections related to the provisions of this section.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works of the city, or her or his designee.
   EMERGENCY. A condition that (1) poses a danger to life or health, or of a
significant loss of property; or (2) requires immediate repair or replacement
of facilities in order to restore service to a customer.
   EQUIPMENT. Any tangible asset used to install, repair, or maintain
facilities in any right-of-way.
   EXCAVATE. To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or
penetrate any part of a right-of-way.
   FACILITY or FACILITIES. Tangible asset in the public right-of-way required
to provide utility service.
   HIGH DENSITY CORRIDOR. A designated portion of the public right-of-way
within which telecommunications right-of-way users having multiple and
competing facilities may be required to build and install facilities in a
common conduit system or other common structure.
   HOLE. An excavation in the right-of-way, with the excavation having a length
less than the width of the pavement or adjacent pavement.
   LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE. A local person or persons, or designee of such person
or persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and to make decisions
for that registrant regarding all matters within the scope of this chapter.
   MANAGEMENT COSTS. The actual costs the city incurs in managing its rights-
of-way, including such costs, if incurred, as those associated with registering
applicants; issuing, processing, and verifying right-of-way permit
applications; inspecting job sites and restoration projects; maintaining,
supporting, protecting, or moving user facilities during right-of-way work;
determining the adequacy of right-of-way restoration; restoring work
inadequately performed, mapping of "as built" location of facilities located in
the right-of-way; and revoking right-of-way permits and performing all other
tasks required by this section, including other costs the city may incur in
managing matters described in this section. MANAGEMENT COSTS do not include
payment by a telecommunications right-of-way user for the use of the right-of-
way, the fees and cost of litigation relating to the interpretation of
Minnesota Session Laws 1997, Chapter 123; M.S. §§ 237.162 or 237.163 or any
ordinance enacted under those sections, or the city fees and costs related to
appeals taken pursuant to §
155.31.
   OBSTRUCT. To place any tangible object in a right-of-way so as to hinder
free and open passage over that or any part of the right-of-way.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this section, must be
obtained before a person may obstruct a right-of-way, allowing the holder to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of that right-of-way,
for the duration specified therein, including a blanket permit for a period of
time and for types of work specified by the Director, if deemed appropriate in
his or her discretion.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by a permittee to cover the
costs as provided in §
155.12.
   PATCH or PATCHING. A method of pavement replacement that is temporary in
nature. A patch consists of (1) the compaction of the subbase and aggregate
base, and (2) the replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement for a minimum
of two feet beyond the edges of the excavation in all directions.
   PAVEMENT. Any type of improved surface that is within the public right-of-
way and that is paved or otherwise constructed with paver blocks, bituminous,
concrete, aggregate, or gravel.
   PERMIT. Has the meaning given "right-of-way permit" in M.S. § 237.162.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a permit to excavate or obstruct a right-of-
way has been granted by the city under this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of this state,
however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or foreign,
whether for profit or nonprofit, and whether natural, corporate, or political.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Has the meaning given it in M.S. § 237.162, subd. 3.
   REGISTRANT. Any person who (1) has or seeks to have its equipment or
facilities located in any right-of-way, or (2) in any way occupies or uses, or
seeks to occupy or use, the right-of-way or place its facilities or equipment
in the right-of-way.
   RESTORE or RESTORATION. The process by which an excavated right-of-way and
surrounding area, including pavement and foundation, is returned to the same
condition and life expectancy that existed before excavation.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT. Either the utility permit or the obstruction permit, or
both, depending on the context, required by this section.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY USER. (1) A telecommunications right-of-way user as defined by
M.S. § 237.162, subd. 4; or (2) a person owning or controlling a facility in
the right-of-way that is used or intended to be used for providing utility
service, and who has a right under law, franchise, or ordinance to use the
public right-of-way.
   SERVICE LATERAL. An underground facility that is used to transmit,
distribute, or furnish gas, electricity, communications, or water from a common
source to an end-use customer. A SERVICE LATERAL is also an underground
facility that is used in the removal of wastewater from a customer's premises.
   SERVICE or UTILITY SERVICE. Means and includes (1) those services provided
by a public utility as defined in M.S. § 216B.02, subds. 4 and 6; (2) services
of a telecommunications right-of-way user, including transporting of voice or
data information; (3) services of a cable communications system as defined in
M.S. § 238.02, subd. 3; (4) natural gas or electric energy or
telecommunications services provided by the city; (5) services provided by a
cooperative electric association organized under M.S. Ch. 308A; and (6) water,
sewer, including service laterals, steam, cooling or heating services.
   SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION. An application made to excavate or obstruct more
of the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend, a permit that had already
been issued.
   TELECOMMUNICATION RIGHT-OF-WAY USER. A person owning or controlling a
facility in the right-of-way, or seeking to own or control a facility in the
right-of-way, that is used or is intended to be used for transporting
telecommunication or other voice or data information. For purposes of this
chapter, a cable communication system defined and regulated under M.S. Ch. 238,
and telecommunication activities related to providing natural gas or electric
energy services whether provided by a public utility as defined in M.S. §
216B.02, a municipality, a municipal gas or power agency organized under M.S.
Chs. 453 and 453A, or a cooperative electric association organized under M.S.
Ch. 308A, are not TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY USERS.
   TEMPORARY SURFACE. The compaction of subbase and aggregate base and
replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement only to the edges of the
excavation.
   TRENCH. An excavation in the right-of-way, with the excavation having a
length equal to or greater than the width of the pavement or adjacent pavement.
   UTILITY PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this section, must be obtained
before a person may excavate in a right-of-way. A UTILITY PERMIT allows the
holder to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such permit.
   UTILITY PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by an applicant to cover the
costs as provided in §
155.12.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Director is the principal city official responsible for the
administration of the rights-of-way, right-of-way permits, and the ordinances
related thereto. The Director may delegate any or all of the duties hereunder.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.05 UTILITY COORDINATION COMMITTEE.
   The city may create an advisory utility coordination committee.
Participation on the committee is voluntary. It will be composed of any
registrants that wish to assist the city in obtaining information and by making
recommendations regarding use of the right-of-way, and to improve the process
of performing construction work therein. The city may determine the size of
such committee and shall appoint members from a list of registrants that have
expressed a desire to assist the city.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.06 REGISTRATION AND RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Registration. Each person who occupies, uses, or seeks to occupy or
use, the right-of-way or place any equipment or facilities in or on the right-
of-way, including persons with installation and maintenance responsibilities by
lease, sublease or assignment, must register with the city. Registration will
consist of providing application information and paying a registration fee.
Registration shall be renewed annually.
   (B)   Registration prior to work. No person may construct, install, repair,
remove, relocate, or perform any other work on, or use any facilities or any
part thereof in any right-of-way without first being registered with the city.
   (C)   Exceptions. Nothing in this section shall be construed to repeal or
amend the provisions of a city ordinance establishing the rights of and
limitations placed on persons to plant or maintain boulevard plantings or
gardens in the area of the right-of-way between their property and the street
curb. Persons carrying out or requesting the following work shall not be deemed
to use or occupy the right-of-way within the meaning of this section, and shall
not be governed by this section. Such persons are or may be governed by other
city code sections, including but not limited to, those noted below.
      (1)   Persons planting or maintaining vegetation in the boulevard.
      (2)   Persons installing driveways, sidewalks, curb and gutter, or
parking lots.
      (3)   Persons erecting fences over drainage or utility easements.
      (4)   Persons engaged in snow removal activities.
      (5)   Persons installing street furnishings, mailboxes, bus stop benches
and shelters.
      (6)   Persons installing vending machines.
      (7)   Persons installing irrigation systems.
      (8)   Persons installing pet containment systems.
      (9)   Persons installing water or sewer service lines.
   (D)   Gopher One Call. Nothing herein relieves a person from complying with
the provisions of the M.S. Ch. 216D, Gopher One Call Law.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.07 REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information required. The registrant shall provide the following at
the time of registration and shall promptly notify the city of changes in such
information:
      (1)   Registrant's name, address, telephone number, facsimile number and
Gopher One Call registration certificate number if required by state law.
      (2)   Name, address, telephone number, email address, and facsimile
number of the person responsible for fulfilling the obligations of the
registrant.
      (3)   A certificate of insurance from a company licensed to do business
in the State of Minnesota providing coverage in the following amounts:
         (a)   General liability. Public liability, including premises,
products and complete operations.
 
Bodily injury liability                    $1,000,000 each person
                                           $3,000,000 each occurrence
Property damage liability                  $3,000,000 each occurrence
Bodily injury and property damage combined $3,000,000 single limit
 
         (b)   Comprehensive. Automobile liability insurance, including owned,
non-owned and hired vehicles.
 
Bodily injury liability                         $1,000,000 each person
Property damage liability                       $3,000,000 each occurrence
In lieu of 1) and 2) bodily injury and property $3,000,000 single limit
damage combined
 
         (c)   Such certificate shall verify that the registrant is insured
against claims for personal injury, including death, as well as claims for
property damage arising out of the (i) use and occupancy of the right-of-way by
the registrant, its officers, agents, employees and permittees, and (ii)
placement and use of equipment or facilities in the right-of-way by the
registrant, its officers, agents, employees and permittees, including but not
limited to, protection against liability arising from completed operations,
damage of underground equipment and collapse of property. Such certificate
shall also name the city as an additional insured as to whom the coverages
required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will be
provided as to all such coverages. Such certificate shall require that the
Director be notified 30 days prior to cancellation of the policy.
      (4)   Twenty-four-hour emergency number.
      (5)   An acknowledgment by the registrant of the indemnification pursuant
to §
155.29.
      (6)   Such other information the Director may require.
   (B)   Notice of changes. The registrant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times by providing to the city information as to
changes within 15 days following the date on which the registrant has knowledge
of any change.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.08 REPORTING OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Operations.
      (1)   If requested by Director, each registrant shall, at the time of
registration and by December 1 of each year, file a construction and major
maintenance plan for underground facilities with the city. Such plan shall be
submitted using a format designated by the city and shall contain the
information determined by the city to be necessary to facilitate the
coordination and reduction in the frequency of excavations and obstructions of
rights-of-way.
      (2)   The plan shall include, but not be limited to, the locations and
the estimated beginning and ending dates of all projects to be commenced during
the next calendar year.
   (B)   Additional next-year projects. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
will not deny an application for a right-of-way permit for failure to include a
project in a plan submitted to the city if the registrant has used commercially
reasonable efforts to anticipate and plan for the project.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.09 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no right-
of-way user may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way without first having
obtained the appropriate right-of-way permit from the city to do so.
      (1)   Utility permit. A utility permit is required by a registrant to
excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such permit and to hinder
free and open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by placing
facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified
therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit. An obstruction permit is required by a
registrant to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of the
right-of-way by placing equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the
extent and for the duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not
required if a person already possesses a valid utility permit for the same
project.
      (3)   Other permits. Other permits may be required for persons in
accordance with the city code.
      (4)   Overhead facilities. Permits for installation, repair or other work
on above-ground facilities within the meaning of M.S. § 237.163, subd. 6(b)(4)
will be obstruction permits, notwithstanding the need for excavation, provided
the excavation is augered or hand dug for the purpose of placing a pole type
structure.
      (5)   Security. A construction performance bond in an amount determined
by the Director shall be required from each applicant. A surety bond shall be
from a corporate surety authorized to do business in the state. Security
required pursuant to this section shall require that the holder will perform
the work in accordance with this chapter and applicable permits, and
regulations, will pay to the city any costs incurred by the city in performing
work pursuant to this chapter; and will indemnify and save the city and its
officers, agents and employees harmless pursuant to the City Code. The
Construction performance bond shall be released by the city upon completion of
the work and compliance with all conditions imposed by the permit. For permits
allowing excavations within public right-of-way, the construction performance
bond shall be held for a period of 24 months to guaranty the adequacy of all
restoration work.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless (i) such person makes a
supplementary application for another right-of-way permit before the expiration
of the initial permit, or requests a verbal extension, and (ii) a new permit or
permit extension is granted. Verbal extensions may be granted by the Director
for a period no greater than 48 hours or for emergencies.
   (C)   Diligence in performing work; delay penalty. Work shall progress in an
expeditious manner as permitted by weather conditions until completion in order
to avoid unnecessary inconvenience. In the event that the work is not performed
in accordance with applicable regulations, excavations and utility connections,
or the work is not done in an expeditious manner, or is abandoned without due
cause, the city may, after 72 hour notice to the permit holder, correct and
fill the excavation or repair the street. The entire cost of such work shall be
paid by the permit holder upon demand made by the city. In accordance with
Minn. Rule 7819.1000, subp. 3, the city shall establish and impose a delay
penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation, obstruction,
patching, or restoration. The delay penalty shall be established from time to
time by city council resolution. A delay penalty will not be imposed for delays
due to force majeure, including inclement weather, civil strife, acts of God,
or other circumstances beyond the control of the applicant.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this section shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the city.
   (E)   Routine obstruction and excavation. Routine excavations and
obstructions are permitted without separate notice and separate compensation
for such projects. Projects that do not involve excavation of paved surface and
that last less than a continuous eight-hour period in duration between 7:00
a.m. and 7:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding holidays, may, in the
Director's discretion, be considered routine obstruction and excavation and
include by way of example, switching, replacing fuses, replacing transformers,
placing line guards, animal protection, leak surveys, anode installations and
inspections, or to repair facilities due to public damage or accident.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.10 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Content of permit. Application for a permit is made to the city. Right-of-
way permit applications shall contain, and will be considered complete only
upon compliance with the requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Registration with the city pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Submission of a completed permit application form as provided by the
city, including all required attachments, and five copies of scaled drawings
showing the location and area of the proposed project and the location of all
known existing and proposed facilities owned or operated by the applicant.
Plans must include scaled dimensions indicating the proposed location of the
facility within the right-of-way and scaled dimensions of the facility from an
existing physical topographic feature (such as "back of curb", "edge of
bituminous road"). Plans must also show all existing physical topographic
features (trees, shrubs, culverts, driveways, fences, street signs) that lie
within ten feet of the proposed facility location.
   (C)   Scaled drawings showing the location of any public streets, alleys,
sidewalks, or trails that will be disrupted by the work.
   (D)   Scaled drawings showing the location of any public streets, alleys,
sidewalks, or trails that will be temporarily closed to traffic or obstructed
by the work.
   (E)   A description of methods to be used for restoration of streets or
boulevards.
   (F)   Payment of money due the city for:
      (1)   Permit fees, estimated restoration costs and other management
costs;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city
because of applicant's prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way
or any emergency actions taken by the city.
   (G)   Payment of disputed amounts due the city by posting security or
depositing in an escrow account an amount equal to at least 100% of the amount
owing. Scaled drawings showing the location.
   (H)   Posting an additional or larger construction performance bond for
additional facilities when applicant requests a utility permit to install
additional facilities and the city deems the existing construction performance
bond inadequate under applicable standards.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.11 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this section, the city shall issue a permit within ten business days of
receiving a completed application. If the city issues a permit under this
section, the applicant shall not be required to obtain a permit for the same
work under another section of the city code.
   (B)   Conditions. The city may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use. The permittee shall comply with all conditions
contained in the permit.
   (C)   Notice of work. Upon request by the Director, the permittee shall
notify in writing in a form approved by the Director all residents specified by
the Director whose property is adjacent to the right-of-way where the proposed
work is to be done indicating start and completion dates. Written notification
is not required for routine obstruction and excavation projects described in §
155.09(E).
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.12 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Fee schedule and fee allocation. The city's permit fee schedule shall
be available to the public and established in advance where reasonably
possible. The permit fees shall be designed to recover the city's actual costs
incurred in managing the right-of-way and shall be based on an allocation among
all users of the right-of-way, including the city.
   (B)   Utility permit fee. The city shall establish a utility permit fee in
an amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      (1)   City management costs.
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (C)   Obstruction permit fee. The city shall establish the obstruction
permit fee and shall be in an amount sufficient to recover the city management
costs.
   (D)   Payment of permit fees. No utility permit or obstruction permit shall
be issued without payment of excavation or obstruction permit fees.
   (E)   Non refundable. Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the city
has revoked for a breach as stated in §
155.22 are not refundable.
   (F)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.13 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the utility permit, and the patching
and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be completed
within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days as work
could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the permittee
or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under §
155.16(B) or if the permittee is granted a new permit.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. Permittee must patch its own work. The city may
choose either to have the permittee restore the surface and subgrading portions
of right-of-way or to restore the surface portion of right-of-way itself.
      (1)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an utility permit post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of §
155.09(A)(5) and Minn. Rules 7819.3000.
      (2)   City restoration. If the city restores the surface portion of
right-of-way, permittee shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing.
If, following such restoration, the pavement settles or otherwise fails for
reasons not caused by city's failure to properly restore, the permittee shall
pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, all costs associated with
correcting the defective work.
      (3)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee. However,
the right-of-way user shall remain responsible for replacing and compacting the
subgrade and aggregate based material in the excavation and the degradation fee
shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform patching and restoration
according to the standards and with the materials specified by the city and
shall comply with Minn. Rule 7819.1100. In exercising authority over
restoration, the Director shall be guided by the following standards and
considerations:
      (1)   The number, size, depth and duration of the excavations,
disruptions or damage to the right-of-way;
      (2)   The traffic volume carried by the right-of-way; the character of
the neighborhood surrounding the right-of-way;
      (3)   The pre-excavation condition of the right-of-way; the remaining
life expectancy of the right-of-way affected by the excavation;
      (4)   Whether the relative cost of the method of restoration to the
permit holder is in reasonable balance with the prevention of an accelerated
depreciation of the right-of-way that would otherwise result from the exaction,
disturbance or damage to the right-of-way; and
      (5)   The likelihood that the particular method of restoration would be
effective in slowing the depreciation of the right-of-way that would otherwise
take place.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching, or restoration performed by permittee or its agents. Upon
notification from the city, permittee shall correct all restoration work to the
extent necessary, using the method required by the city. Unless otherwise
agreed to by the Director, said work shall be commenced within two days of
receipt of the notice from the city and shall be completed within 14 days of
commencement of work, not including days during which work cannot be done
because of circumstances constituting force majeure or days when work is
prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under §
155.16(B).
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the city, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the city, the
city shall notify the permittee in writing of the specific alleged failure or
failures and shall allow the permittee five days from receipt of said written
notice to cure said failure or failures, unless otherwise extended by the
Director. In the event the permittee fails to cure, the city may at its option
perform the necessary work and permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days
of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way. If permittee fails to pay
as required, the city, in addition to other remedies provided by law, may
exercise its rights under the construction performance bond.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.14 JOINT AND INDIVIDUAL APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Joint trenching. Director may require registrants to jointly apply for
permits to excavate or obstruct the right-of-way at the same place and time.
   (B)   Fees. The registrant who applies for a joint utility permit shall pay
the required permit fee.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.15 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater area
(i) make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees
required thereby, and (ii) be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
Except in the case of verbal extensions, if a permittee does not finish the
work by the permit end date, it must apply for a new permit for the additional
time it needs, and receive the new permit or an extension of the old permit
before working after the end date of the previous permit. This supplementary
application must be submitted before the permit end date.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.16 OTHER OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with other laws. Obtaining a right-of-way permit does not
relieve permittee of its duty to obtain all other necessary permits, licenses,
and authority and to pay all fees required by the city or other applicable
rule, law or regulation. A permittee shall comply with all requirements of
local, state and federal laws, including but not limited to M.S. § 216D.01.09
(Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System), and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560. A
permittee shall perform all work in conformance with all applicable codes and
established rules and regulations, and is responsible for all work done in the
right-of-way pursuant to its permit, regardless of who does the work.
   (B)   Prohibited work. Except in an emergency, or with the approval of the
city, no right-of-way obstruction or excavation may be done when seasonally
prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work.
   (C)   Interference with right-of-way. A permittee shall not so obstruct a
right-of-way that the natural free and clear passage of water through the
gutters or other waterways shall be interfered with, unless otherwise approved
by the Director. Private vehicles of those doing work in the right-of-way may
not be parked within or next to a permit area, unless parked in conformance
with city parking regulations. The loading or unloading of trucks must be done
solely within the defined permit area unless specifically authorized by the
permit.
   (D)   Traffic control. A permittee shall implement traffic control measures
in the area of the work and shall use traffic control procedures in accordance
with the most recent manuals on uniform traffic control, traffic control
devices and traffic zone layouts published by the State of Minnesota.
   (E)   Trenchless excavation. As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including but not limited
to horizontal directional drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
M.S. Ch. 216D and Minn. Rules Chapter 7560, and shall require potholing or open
cutting over existing underground utilities before excavating as determined by
the director.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.17 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements and
conditions of this section or if the city determines that the denial is
necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its current use or for the following specific
violations.
   (A)   Failure to register pursuant to §
155.06.
   (B)   A proposed excavation within a street or sidewalk surface that has
been constructed or reconstructed within the preceding seven years, unless the
Director determines that no other locations are feasible or when necessitated
by emergency.
   (C)   The applicant is subject to revocation of a prior permit issued
pursuant to this section.
   (D)   The proposed schedule for the work would conflict or interfere with
and exhibition, celebration, festival or any other similar event.
   (E)   The right-of-way would become unduly congested due to the proposed
facilities and equipment when combined with other uses in the right-of-way as
provided in §
155.25(C).
   (F)   Businesses or residences in the vicinity will be unreasonably
disrupted.
   (G)   The applicant failed to meet a reasonable schedule to participate in a
mandated joint trench operation with other applicants, and the additional work
will unreasonably disrupt the restored right-of-way, businesses or residences.
   (H)   The proposed schedule conflicts with scheduled reconstruction of the
right-of-way.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.18 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules
7819.1100, 7819.5000 and other applicable local requirements, in so far as they
are not inconsistent with the M.S. §§ 237.162 and 237.163. Installation of
service laterals shall be performed in accordance with Minn. Rules Chapter 7560
and this code. Service lateral installation is further subject to those
requirements and conditions set forth by the city in the applicable permits
and/or agreements referenced in §
155.23(B).
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.19 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Site inspection. Permittee shall make the work-site available to the
city and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable
times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (B)   Authority of Director.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the Director may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety
or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The Director may issue an order to the permittee to correct any
work that does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable
standards, conditions, or code. If the work failure is a "substantial breach"
within the meaning of M.S. § 237.163, subd. 4(c), the order shall state that
failure to correct the violation will be cause for revocation of the permit
after a specified period determined by the Director. The permittee shall
present proof to the Director that the violation has been corrected within the
time period set forth by the Director in the order. Such proof shall be
provided no later than the next business day following the day of completion.
If such proof has not been presented within the required time, the Director may
revoke the permit pursuant to §
155.22.
   (C)   Standards during construction or installation. The permit holder shall
comply with the following standards when engaging in the work:
      (1)   Observe and comply with all laws, rules and regulations of the
state.
      (2)   Conduct the operation and perform the work in a manner as to ensure
the least obstruction and interference to traffic.
      (3)   Take adequate precautions to ensure the safety of the general
public and those who require access to abutting property.
      (4)   If required by the Director, notify adjoining property owners prior
to the commencement of work which may disrupt the use of and access to such
adjoining properties.
      (5)   In all cases where construction work interferes with the normal use
of the construction area, provide for closing the construction area to traffic
or to afford restricted use of the area and comply with MUTCD traffic safety
signing requirements.
      (6)   Exercise precaution at all times for the protection of persons,
including employees and property.
      (7)   Protect and identify excavations and work operations with barricade
flags, and if required, by flagmen in the daytime, and by warning lights at
night.
      (8)   Provide proper trench protection as required by O.S.H.A when
necessary and depending upon the type of soil, in order to prevent cave-ins
endangering life or tending to enlarge the excavation.
      (9)   Protect the root growth of trees and shrubbery.
      (10)   Installation of pipe (utility conductors) under concrete, or
bituminous pavements shall be done by jacking, auguring or tunneling as
directed by the Director unless otherwise authorized.
      (11)   All backfilling must be placed in six-inch layers at optimum
moisture and compacted with the objective of attaining 100% of standard proctor
density. Compaction shall be accomplished with hand, pneumatic or vibrating
compacters as appropriate.
      (12)   No metal-tracked or other lugged equipment is allowed to be driven
on the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.20 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations.
      (1)   Each registrant shall immediately notify the Director of any event
regarding its facilities that it considers to be an emergency. The registrant
may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary to respond to the emergency.
Excavators' notification to Gopher State One Call regarding an emergency
situation does not fulfill this requirement. Within two business days after the
occurrence of the emergency, the registrant shall apply for the necessary
permits, pay the fees associated therewith, and fulfill the rest of the
requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with this chapter for
the actions it took in response to the emergency.
      (2)   If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding a registrant's
facilities, the city will attempt to contact the local representative of each
registrant affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event,
the city may take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the
emergency, the cost of which shall be borne by the registrant whose facilities
occasioned the emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit, and, as a penalty, pay double
the normal fee for said permit, pay double all the other fees required by the
city code, deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to
the right-of-way, and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.21 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the city by
supplementary application of the accurate information as soon as this
information is known.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.22 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right to revoke any right-
of-way permit, without a fee refund, if there is a substantial breach of the
terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule or regulation, or any
material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by permittee shall
include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner; unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittee's control; or
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on a written notice issued pursuant to §
155.13(E).
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit the city shall make
a written demand upon the permittee to remedy such violation. The demand shall
state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the permit. A
substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city to place additional or
revised conditions on the permit to mitigate and remedy the breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach. Within a time established by the
Director following permittee's receipt of notification of the breach, permittee
shall provide the city with a plan to cure the breach, acceptable to the city.
Permittee's failure to submit a timely and acceptable plan, or permittee's
failure to timely implement the approved plan, shall be cause for immediate
revocation of the permit.
   (D)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the City for the city's reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys' fees
incurred in connection with such revocation.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.23 MAPPING DATA.
   (A)   Information required. Each registrant and permittee shall provide
mapping information required by the city in accordance with Minn. Rules
7819.4000 and 7819.4100. Within 90 days following completion of any work
pursuant to a permit, the permittee shall provide the director accurate maps
and drawings certifying the "as-built" location of all equipment installed,
owed, and maintained by the permittee. Such maps and drawings shall include the
horizontal and vertical location of all facilities and equipment and shall be
provided consistent with the city's electronic mapping system, when practical
or as a condition imposed by the Director. Failure to provide maps and drawings
pursuant to this section shall be grounds for revoking the permit holder's
registration.
   (B)   Service laterals. All permits issued for the installation or repair of
service laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minn. Rules 7560.0150,
subp. 2 shall require the permittee's use of appropriate means of establishing
the horizontal locations of installed service laterals, and the service lateral
vertical locations in those cases where the director reasonably requires it.
Permittees or their subcontractors shall submit to the director evidence
satisfactory to the director of the installed service lateral locations.
Compliance with this division (B) and with applicable Gopher State One Call Law
and Minnesota Rules governing service laterals install after December 31, 2007,
shall be a condition of any city approval necessary for (1) payments to
contractors working on a public improvement project including those under M.S.
Ch. 429, and (2) city approval of performance under development agreements or
other subdivision or site plan approval under M.S. Ch. 462. The Director shall
reasonably determine the appropriate method of providing such information to
the city. Failure to provide prompt and accurate information on the service
laterals installed may result in the revocation of the permit issued for the
work or for future permits to the offending permittee or its subcontractors.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.24 UNDERGROUNDING.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to promote the health, safety
and general welfare of the public and is intended to foster (i) safe travel
over the right-of-way, (ii) non-travel related safety around homes and
buildings where overhead feeds are connected and (iii) orderly development in
the city consistent with its comprehensive plan. Location and relocation,
installation and reinstallation of facilities in the right-of-way or in or on
other public ground must be made in accordance with this section and is
intended to be enforced consistently with state and federal law regulating
right-of-way users, to the fullest extent of the city's statutory and common
law authority.
   (B)   Undergrounding of facilities. Facilities newly installed, constructed
or otherwise placed in the public right-of-way or in other public property held
in common for public use must be located and maintained underground pursuant to
the terms and conditions of this section and in accordance with applicable
construction standards, subject to the exceptions below. Above-ground
installation, construction, modification, or replacement of meters, gauges,
transformers, street lighting, pad mount switches, capacitor banks, re-closers
and service connection pedestals shall be allowed. These
requirements shall apply equally outside of the corporate limits of the city
coincident with city jurisdiction of platting, subdivision regulation or
comprehensive planning as may now or in the future be allowed by law.
   (C)   Undergrounding of permanent replacement, relocated or reconstructed
facilities. If the city finds that one or more of the purposes set forth in
division (A) of this section would be promoted, the city may require a
permanent replacement, relocation or reconstruction of a facility to be
located, and maintained underground, with due regard for seasonal working
conditions. For the purposes of this division, RECONSTRUCTION means any
substantial repair of or any improvement to existing facilities. Undergrounding
may be required whether a replacement, relocation or reconstruction is
initiated by the right-of-way user owning or operating the facilities, or by
the city in connection with (1) the present or future use by the city or other
local government unit of the right-of-way or other public ground for a public
project, (2) the public health or safety, or (3) the safety and convenience of
travel over the right-of-way. Subject to division (D) below, all relocations
from previously placed underground facilities shall be to another underground
location.
   (D)   Exceptions to undergrounding. The following exceptions to the strict
application of this division (D) shall be allowed upon the conditions stated:
      (1)   Technical/economic feasibility; promotion of policy. Above-ground
installation, construction, or placement of facilities shall be allowed in
residential, commercial and industrial areas where the council, following
consideration and recommendation by the planning commission, finds that:
         (a)   Underground placement would place an undue financial burden upon
the landowner, ratepayers, or right-of-way user or would deprive the landowner
of the preservation and enjoyment of substantial property rights; or
         (b)   Underground placement is impractical or not technically feasible
due to topographical, subsoil or other existing conditions which adversely
affect underground facilities placement; or
         (c)   Failure to promote the purposes of undergrounding. The right-of-
way user clearly and convincingly demonstrates that none of the purposes under
division (A) of this section would be advanced by underground placement of
facilities on the project in question, or the city determines on its own review
that undergrounding is not warranted based on the circumstances of the proposed
undergrounding.
      (2)   Temporary service. Above-ground installation, construction, or
placement of temporary service lines shall only be allowed:
         (a)   During new construction of any project for a period not to
exceed three months;
         (b)   During an emergency in order to safeguard lives or property
within the city;
         (c)   For a period of not more than seven months when soil conditions
make excavation impractical.
      (3)   Facilities subject to M.S. § 216B.243 and Ch. 216E.
      (4)   Facilities that are subject to certificate of need and siting and
routing permitting requirements of the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission
are exempted from this section, to the extent of the city's undergrounding
authority is preempted.
   (E)   Developer responsibility. All owners, platters, or developers are
responsible for complying with the requirements of this section, and prior to
final approval of any plat or development plan, shall submit to the Director
written instruments from the appropriate right-of-way users showing that all
necessary arrangements with said users for installation of such facilities have
been made.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.25 LOCATION AND RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Rule. Placement, location, and relocation of facilities must comply
with the Act, with other applicable rights of the city under its police power,
and with Minn. Rules 7819.3100, 7819.5000 and 7819.5100, to the extent the
rules do not limit authority otherwise available to cities.
      (1)   Relocation notification procedure. The Director shall notify the
utility owner at least three months in advance of the need to relocate existing
facilities so the owner can determine if relocation or replacement is required
and plan any required work. The city should provide one notification, provide
the date work will start on the city’s project, and if different, provide the
date by which the relocation must be completed. To the extent technically
feasible and limited by seasonal constraints, all utilities shall be relocated
within one month or in a time frame determined by the Director. The Director
may allow a different schedule if it does not interfere with the city's
project. The utility owner shall diligently work to relocate the facilities
within the above schedule.
      (2)   Delay to city project. If the owner fails to meet the relocation
schedule due to circumstances within the utility's control, the city may charge
the utility owner for all costs incurred by the city because the relocation is
not completed in the scheduled timeframe.
      (3)   Joint trenching. All facilities shall be placed in appropriate
portions of right-of-way so as to cause minimum conflict with other underground
facilities. When technically appropriate and no safety hazards are created, all
utilities shall be installed, constructed or placed within the same trench.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, gas and electric lines shall be placed in
conformance with Minn. Rules part 7819.5100, subd. 2, governing safety
standards.
   (B)   Corridors.
      (1)   The city may assign a specific area within the right-of-way, or any
particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of facilities
that are or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will be located
within the right-of-way. All utility, obstruction, or other permits issued by
the city involving the installation or replacement of facilities shall
designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue. A typical crossing
section of the location for utilities may be on file at the Director's office.
This section is not intended to establish "high density corridors".
      (2)   Any registrant who has facilities in the right-of-way in a position
at variance with the corridors established by the city may remain at that
location until the city requires facilities relocation to the corridor pursuant
to relocation authority granted under Minn. Rules part 7819.3100 or other
applicable law.
   (C)   Limitation of space. To protect the public health, safety, and welfare
or when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the city
shall have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional
facilities within the right-of-way. In making such decisions, the city shall
strive to the extent possible to accommodate all existing and potential users
of the right-of-way, but shall be guided primarily by considerations of the
public interest, the public's needs for the particular utility service, the
condition of the right-of-way, the time of year with respect to essential
utilities, the protection of existing facilities in the right-of-way, and
future city plans for public improvements and development projects which have
been determined to be in the public interest.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.26 PRE-EXCAVATION FACILITIES LOCATION.
   In addition to complying with the requirements of M.S. § 216D.01.09 ("One
Call Excavation Notice System") before the start date of any right-of-way
excavation, each registrant who has facilities or equipment in the area to be
excavated shall be responsible to mark the horizontal placement of all said
facilities, to the extent technically feasible. To the extent its records
contain such information, each registrant shall provide information regarding
the approximate vertical location of their facilities, at the time of
installation, to excavators upon request. Nothing in this section is meant to
limit the rights, duties and obligations of the facility owners or excavators
as set forth in M.S. § 216D.01.09.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.27 INTERFERENCE BY OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the city does work in the right-of-way in its governmental right-of-way
management function and finds it necessary to maintain, support, or move a
registrant's facilities to carry out the work without damaging registrant's
facilities, the city shall notify the local representative as early as is
reasonably possible. The city costs associated therewith will be billed to that
registrant and must be paid within 30 days from the date of billing. Each
registrant shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any facilities in the
right-of-way which it or its facilities damages.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.28 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION - RESERVATION OF RIGHT.
   (A)   Reservation of right. If the city vacates a right-of-way which
contains the equipment of a registrant, and if the vacation does not require
the relocation of registrant facilities and equipment, the city shall reserve,
to and for itself and all registrants having facilities and equipment in the
vacated right-of-way, the right to install, maintain and operate any facilities
and equipment in the vacated right-of-way and to enter upon such right-of-way
at any time for the purpose of reconstruction, inspecting, maintaining or
repairing the same.
   (B)   Relocation of equipment. If the vacation requires the relocation of
registrant facilities and equipment; and (a) if the vacation proceedings are
initiated by the registrant, the registrant must pay the relocation costs; or
(b) if the vacation proceedings are initiated by the city, the registrant must
pay the relocation costs unless otherwise agreed to by the city and the
registrant; or (c) if the vacation proceedings are initiated by a person or
persons other than the registrant or permit holder, such other person or
persons must pay the relocation costs.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.29 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By registering with the city, or by accepting a permit under this section, a
registrant or permittee agrees to defend and indemnify the city in accordance
with the provisions of Minn. Rule 7819.1250.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.30 ABANDONED FACILITIES.
   (A)   Discontinued operations. A registrant who has decided to discontinue
all or a portion of its operations in the city must provide information
satisfactory to the city that the registrant's obligations for its facilities
in the right-of-way under this section have been lawfully assumed by another
registrant.
   (B)   Removal. Any registrant who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-
way shall remove them from that right-of-way pursuant to Minn. Rule Part
7819.3300, unless the requirement is waived by the Director. A facility is not
abandoned unless declared so by the operator.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.31 APPEAL.
   A right-of-way user that: (1) has been denied registration; (2) has been
denied a permit; (3) has had a permit revoked; or (4) believes that the fees
imposed are not in conformity with M.S. § 237.163, subd. 6, or 5 disputes a
determination of the director regarding §
155.23(B) of this chapter may have the denial, revocation, fee imposition, or
decision reviewed, upon written request, by the City Council. The City Council
shall act on a timely written request at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
A decision by the City Council affirming the denial, revocation, or fee
imposition will be in writing and supported by written findings establishing
the reasonableness of the decision.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.32 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   A permittee's or registrant's rights are subject to the regulatory and
police powers of the city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 155.33 SEVERABILITY.
      If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
chapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court or
administrative agency of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a
separate, distinct, and independent provision and such holding shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions thereof. If a regulatory body or a court
of competent jurisdiction should determine by a final, non-appealable order
that any permit, right or registration issued under this chapter or any
portions of this chapter is illegal or unenforceable, then any such permit,
right or registration granted or deemed to exist hereunder shall be considered
as a revocable permit with a mutual right in either party to terminate without
cause upon giving 60 days written notice to the other. The requirements and
conditions of such a revocable permit shall be the same requirements and
conditions as set forth in the permit, right or registration, respectively,
except for conditions relating to the term of the permit and the right of
termination. Nothing in this chapter precludes the city from requiring a
franchise agreement with the applicant, as allowed by law, in addition to
requirements set forth herein.
(Ord. 335, Second Series, passed 4-9-2013)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   STREETS VACATIONS AND RENAMINGS
      
II.   ELECTIONS
      
III.   CERTAIN DISTRICTS
      
IV.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
      
V.   ANNEXATIONS
      
VI.   REZONINGS
TABLE I: STREETS VACATIONS AND RENAMINGS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
54       6-2-1959    Renaming streets and public places
                     Vacating an alley between Block 1 of First Northside
93A      8-13-1985   Addition and Block 7 of the original plat; and vacating an
                     alley in Block 2 of First Northside Addition
103      4-9-1991    Vacating a street located on Wachtler and First Streets on
                     the east line of North Gate Park
 
TABLE II: ELECTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
73       9-12-1974   Fixing the date of city elections
 
TABLE III: CERTAIN DISTRICTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Establishing a Storm Sewer Improvement Tax District for
94       3-28-1985   the purpose of assessing costs of major storm sewer
                     improvement programs
99       5-12-1987   Establishing Urban Service and Rural Service Districts in
                     the city
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date       Description
         Passed
87       10-12-1982 Granting a franchise to North American Communications
                    Corporation for a term of 15 years
135      7-31-1992  Granting a franchise to Northern States Power Company for a
                    term of 20 years
100,
Second   11-16-1998 Granting a franchise to Triax Midwest Associates, L.P.
Series
320,                Amending and extending the franchise agreement with
Second   9-8-2009   Mediacom Minnesota, LLC
Series
334      1-20-2012  Granting a nonexclusive franchise to Dooley’s Petroleum,
                    Inc.
337      9-10-2013  Implementing an electric franchise fee on Norther States
                    Power Company
338      9-10-2013  Implementing a gas franchise fee on Dooley’s Natural Gas,
                    LLC
336      10-8-2013  Granting a franchise to Northern States Power Company
341      6-9-2020   Granting a franchise to Mediacom Minnesota, LLC
 
TABLE V: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
55       10-31-1960  Annexing parcels in the southwest quarter of the northeast
                     quarter, 7-117-37
58A      8-9-1966    Annexing a parcel in the southeast quarter, 12-117-38
92       9-11-1984   Annexing a tract in 12-117-38 (Stoneham Township)
102      8-5-1999    Extending the corporate limits to include abutting land
                     purchased by the city
340      5-12-2020   Annexing land located in Rheiderland Township, Chippewa
                     County
 
TABLE VI: REZONINGS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.           Date Passed Description
103, Second Series 9-14-1999   Changing zoning from R-3 to B-2
201, Second Series 4-9-2002    Changing zoning from I-1 to R-2
301, Second Series 3-11-2003   Changing zoning from R-1 to B-1
303, Second Series 7-8-2003    Changing zoning from R-1 to B-1
306, Second Series 5-11-2004   Changing zoning from B-1 to R-1
311, Second Series 5-10-2006   Changing zoning from A-O to R-1
319, Second Series 8-3-2009    Changing zoning from A-O to B-1
328, Second Series 11-9-2010   Changing zoning from B-2 to I-1
331, Second Series 11-8-2011   Changing zoning from B-2 to I-1
332, Second Series 11-8-2011   Changing zoning from B-2 to I-1
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Section Code Section
M.S. Section           Code Section
14.57 - 14.70          112.36,
                       112.99
15.73, Subd. 2         155.03
84.81 - 84.911         72.32
84.92 - 84.929         72.46
84.872                 72.26
88.16                  91.09
88.17                  91.09
88.22                  91.09
89.53                  91.22,
                       91.28
144.391                111.02
152.02                 91.14
157.16                 112.03
Ch. 168                92.01
                       70.01,
                       71.21,
                       71.23,
Ch. 169                71.26,
                       90.001,
                       91.66,
                       92.01
169.045                71.21
169.045(7)             71.21
169.70                 71.21
169.121                72.22
169A.20                71.22
216B.02                155.03
216B.02, Subd. 4       155.03
216B.02, Subd. 6       155.03
216B.243               155.24
Ch. 216D               155.06,
                       155.16
216D.01.09             155.16,
                       155.26
216D.04, Subd. 3       155.03
Ch. 216E               155.24
237.16                 155.01
237.79                 155.01
237.81                 155.01
                       155.01,
237.162                155.03,
                       155.18
237.162, Subd. 3       155.03
237.162, Subd. 4       155.03
                       155.01,
237.163                155.03,
                       155.18,
                       155.31
237.163, Subd. 2(b)    155.02
237.163, Subd. 4(c)    155.19
237.163, Subd. 6       155.31
237.163, Subd. 6(b)(4) 155.09
Ch. 238                155.03
238.02, Subd. 3        155.03
238.086                155.01
Ch. 308A               155.03
                       112.01,
                       112.02,
Ch. 340A               112.20,
                       112.23,
                       112.36,
                       112.99
340A.14, Sub. 6        112.22
340A.101               112.03,
                       112.22
340A.301, Sub. 6       112.22
340A.301, Sub. 7       112.22
340A.401, Sub. 1       112.22,
                       112.55
340A.404, Sub. 4a      112.22
340A.404, Sub. 4b      112.22
340A.404, Sub. 5       112.22
340A.408               112.23
340A.408, Sub. 2b      112.22
340A.408, Sub. 3       112.22
340A.409               112.25,
                       112.54
340A.413               112.55
340A.413, Sub. 3       112.20
340A.414               112.35
340A.504               112.33
340A.509               112.02
340A.504, Sub. 3       112.22
340A.801               112.25
347.50                 93.31
347.50 - 347.565       93.38,
                       93.99
347.51, Sub. 5         93.31
347.51 - 347.55        93.31
347.515                93.29
Ch. 349                111.03
349.11 - 349.22        111.03
349.12                 111.03
349.22                 111.03
349.166                111.03
412.591                30.06
                       91.26,
Ch. 429                153.01,
                       155.23
429.011                90.006
429.101                91.26
443.015                53.06
461.12                 111.02
461.12(2)              111.99
461.12(3)              111.99
Ch. 462                155.23
Ch. 463                91.14
469.070 - 469.108      31.21
Ch. 471                152.01
471.6985               112.53
Ch. 505                152.01
609.02, Sub. 8         93.20
609.02, Sub. 7a        93.20
617.80 - 617.87        113.06
626.862                10.20
                       
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2009 Code Sectionrr
Prior Code Section 2009 Code Sectionrr
1.02               10.05
1.04               10.99
1.06               10.99
1.09               10.99
2.01               30.01
2.02               30.20
2.03               30.21
2.04               30.22
2.05               30.02
2.06               30.03
2.07               30.04
2.08               30.05
2.09               30.06
2.10               30.07
2.11               30.08
2.12               30.09
2.20               31.01
2.21               31.02
2.22               31.03
2.23               31.04
2.24               31.05
2.30               31.20
2.31               31.21
2.40               92.01 -
                   92.04
3.01               50.01
3.02               50.02
3.03               50.03
3.04               50.05 -
                   50.12
3.10               51.01 -
                   51.11
3.20               52.01 -
                   52.07
3.21               52.08
3.22               52.09
3.30               53.01 -
                   53.05
4.01               150.35 -
                   150.38
4.10               151.01 -
                   151.04
6.01               110.01
6.02               110.02
6.03               110.03
6.04               110.04
6.05               110.05
6.06               110.06
6.07               110.07
6.08               110.08
6.09               110.09
6.10               110.10
6.11               110.11
6.20               111.01
                   114.01,
6.23               114.02,
                   114.04 -
                   114.07
7.01               90.001
7.02               90.002
7.03               90.003
7.04               90.004
7.05               90.005
7.06               90.006
7.07               90.020 -
                   90.026
7.08               90.040 -
                   90.047
7.09               90.060 -
                   90.064
7.10               90.007
7.11               90.008
7.12               90.075 -
                   90.080
7.99               90.999
8.01               70.01
8.02               71.01
8.03               72.01 -
                   72.05
8.04               71.02
8.05               71.03
8.06               71.04
8.07               71.05
8.08               72.20 -
                   72.32
8.09               70.02
8.11               72.45,
                   72.46
8.12               72.60,
                   72.61
9.01               73.01,
                   73.09
9.02               73.02
9.03               73.03
9.04               73.04
9.05               73.05
9.06               73.06
9.07               73.07
9.08               73.08
9.10               73.10
9.11               73.11,
                   73.14
9.12               73.12
9.13               73.13
9.15               73.15
9.16               73.16
9.17               73.17
9.18               73.18
                   91.01 -
10.01              91.06,
                   91.08
10.02              91.07
10.04              130.01 -
                   130.05
                   93.20,
                   93.21,
10.05              93.24,
                   93.36,
                   93.37
10.06              93.01 -
                   93.06
10.20              91.20 -
                   91.32
10.21              91.09
10.22              91.10
10.23              91.11
10.24              91.45 -
                   91.51
                   131.01,
10.30              131.02,
                   131.04
10.31              132.01
10.32              132.02
10.33              132.03
10.34              94.01,
                   94.02
10.35              95.01 -
                   95.09
10.36              91.65
10.37              91.66
10.38              91.12
10.39              91.13
10.40              132.04
11.01              152.01 -
                   152.05
11.02              152.20 -
                   152.22
11.04              152.40 -
                   152.44
11.05              152.55 -
                   152.57
11.06              152.06
11.07              152.07
11.08              152.08
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.           Date Passed Code Section
54                 6-2-1959    TSO Table I
55                 10-31-1960  TSO Table V
58A                8-9-1966    TSO Table V
73                 9-12-1974   TSO Table II
                               150.20 -
79                 12-1-1978   150.23,
                               150.99
87                 10-12-1982  TSO Table IV
92                 9-11-1984   TSO Table V
94                 3-28-1985   TSO Table III
93A                8-13-1985   TSO Table I
99                 5-12-1987   TSO Table III
103                4-9-1991    TSO Table I
135                7-31-1992   TSO Table IV
-                  6-21-1995   151.05
2, Second Series   3-11-1996   111.04
9, Second Series   10-8-1996   73.10
-                  10-14-1997  111.02,
                               111.99
100, Second Series 11-16-1998  TSO Table IV
102                8-5-1999    TSO Table V
103, Second Series 9-14-1999   TSO Table VI
201, Second Series 4-9-2002    TSO Table VI
301, Second Series 3-11-2003   TSO Table VI
303, Second Series 7-8-2003    TSO Table VI
305, Second Series 1-13-2004   113.01 -
                               113.09
-                  2-10-2004   73.09
306, Second Series 5-11-2004   TSO Table VI
307, Second Series 8-10-2004   91.14
308, Second Series 9-7-2004    30.08
                               150.01 -
309, Second Series 4-12-2005   150.05,
                               150.99
311, Second Series 5-10-2006   TSO Table VI
312, Second Series 8-8-2006    90.081
315, Second Series 12-9-2008   90.062
                               90.061,
317, Second Series 6-2-2009    90.065 -
                               90.068,
                               90.999
319, Second Series 8-3-2009    TSO Table VI
320, Second Series 9-8-2009    TSO Table IV
                               93.07,
                               93.20 -
321, Second Series 10-13-2009  93.38,
                               114.01 - 114.17,
                               132.01
323                1-12-2010   Adopting Ordinance
327                6-8-2010    52.10
328                11-9-2010   TSO Table VI
329                7-18-2011   112.37
330                9-13-2011   91.11
331                11-8-2011   TSO Table VI
332                11-8-2011   TSO Table VI
333                12-13-2011  54.01 -
                               54.04
334                1-20-2012   TSO Table IV
335, Second Series 4-9-2013    155.01 -
                               155.33
337                9-10-2013   TSO Table IV
338                9-10-2013   TSO Table IV
336                10-8-2013   TSO Table IV
71                 3-12-2019   71.20 -
                               71.26
-                  12-10-2019  111.02
340                5-12-2020   TSO Table V
341                6-9-2020    TSO Table IV
343                11-12-2020  153.01 -
                               153.03
346                4-20-2021   111.03
-                  6-13-2022   50.11
-                  11-9-2022   53.06
                              
 
