COTTAGE GROVE, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. 1100, passed 4-16-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This City Code of the City of Cottage Grove, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including Ordinance No. 1100, passed April 16, 2025.
Ordinances of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of
this City Code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent
therewith. Consult the City Hall in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the Code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
 
TITLE 1: ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1: OFFICIAL CITY CODE
Section
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Numbering System
1-1-3: Adoption by Reference
1-1-4: Inconsistent Provisions
1-1-5: Severability
1-1-6: Ordinance Enactment and Effective Date
1-1-7: Repealed and Special Ordinances
1-1-8: Ordinances Amending Code; Integration into Code
1-1-9: Recordkeeping
1-1-10: Electronic Signatures
§ 1-1-1: TITLE:
   This codification of the ordinances of the City of Cottage Grove may be
referred to and cited as “the Cottage Grove City Code” or “the City Code.” It
may also be referred to within this codification as “this Code” or “the Code.”
§ 1-1-2: NUMBERING SYSTEM:
   A.   Numbering System Explained: For the purposes of internal references in
the Code and citation by its users, each section of the legislation included in
this Code has been assigned a number that indicates the title in which the
legislation is included, the Chapter or Article as the case may be in which it
is found and the location of the section within that Chapter or Article, as
follows:
      Example: 5-1A-2
      First number (5-1A-2) Title of Code
      Second number (5-1A-2) Chapter of Title
      Letter (5-1A-2) Article of Chapter
      Third number (5-1A-2) Section of Chapter and/or Article
   B.   Referencing Code Provisions: References or citations made in a form
other than the foregoing will not defeat the intent of a user in citing this
Code when that intent is otherwise clear. This Code is to be construed
liberally to carry out its intent and purpose.
§ 1-1-3: ADOPTION BY REFERENCE:
   Statutes or administrative rules or regulations of the State of Minnesota
and codes and ordinances adopted by reference in this Code are adopted pursuant
to authority granted by Minnesota Statutes Section 471.62. At least one (1)
copy of any item so adopted, but not less than the number of copies required by
law, must be kept in the office of the City Clerk for use by the public.
§ 1-1-4: INCONSISTENT PROVISIONS:
   The regulatory provisions of this Code are minimum requirements. If the
provisions in one (1) Section of this Code differ from those in any other
Section, the provisions that are more restrictive or that impose the higher
standard will prevail.
§ 1-1-5: SEVERABILITY:
   Every Chapter, Section, subdivision, paragraph, and subparagraph of this
Code is separate from every other Code provision. If any provision of this Code
as now or later amended or its application to any person or circumstance is
held invalid, the invalidity does not affect other provisions that can be given
effect without the invalid provision or application.
§ 1-1-6: ORDINANCE ENACTMENT AND EFFECTIVE DATE:
   A.   Enactment of Ordinances: Ordinances are enacted in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 412.
   B.   Effective Date: Ordinances are effective on the day following
publication in the official newspaper of the City or on a later date specified
in the ordinance.
§ 1-1-7: REPEALED AND SPECIAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Ordinances Repealed and Ordinances Saved from Repeal:
      1.   All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of
this Code are repealed except those ordinances that are included in this Code
or are by necessary implication reserved from repeal (subject to the savings
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of obligations; ordinances establishing naming or
vacating streets, alleys or other public places; improvement ordinances;
ordinances relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or
acceptance of real estate by or from the City; and all special ordinances.
      2.   An ordinance not included in this Code is a special ordinance. The
City Council may direct that special ordinances and others be included in
appendices to this Code.
   B.   Limitations on Repeal: The repeal of the ordinances as provided in
subsection A.1 of this Section does not affect, release, or discharge any debt
or fee which is accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action
or proceeding commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed, but may
be prosecuted, enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance has
continued in force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided, nor shall the
repeal of any ordinance under subsection A.1 of this Section affect the term of
office of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect.
      1.   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
      2.   When an ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
   C.   Public Ways and Public Utility Ordinances: An ordinance relating to
railroad crossings with streets and other public ways, or relating to the
conduct, duties, services or rates of public utilities is not repealed by
virtue of the adoption of this Code or by virtue of subsections A and B of this
Section, excepting as this Code contains provisions for such matters, in which
case, this Code is to be considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in
respect to such provisions only.
§ 1-1-8: ORDINANCES AMENDING CODE; INTEGRATION INTO CODE:
   A.   Form of Ordinances Amending Code: An ordinance amending this Code must
specify the chapter, article, section, subsection or clause to be amended.
Language to be added must be underlined; language to be repealed must be
stricken. An ordinance repealing an entire chapter, article, section,
subsection or clause need refer only to that chapter, article, section,
subsection or clause, and the text need not be reproduced. The text of an
ordinance adding only new provisions to the Code need not be underlined.
   B.   Integrating Ordinances into Code:
      1.   Ordinances are to be integrated into this Code in accordance with
this Chapter.
      2.   When an ordinance is integrated into this Code, the following
matters may be omitted:
         a.   Title.
         b.   Enacting clause.
         c.   Section numbers.
         d.   Validation and repealing clauses.
         e.   Validation signatures and dates.
         f.   Punctuation and other matters not an integral part of the text of
the ordinance.
         g.   Penalty provisions.
            (1)   Source Notes: When an ordinance is integrated into this Code,
a source note will be added where appropriate indicating the ordinance number
and passage date from which the changed language was derived.
            (2)   Other Standards: The City Clerk may establish and implement
other standards to ensure the expeditious integration of ordinances into this
Code. The City Clerk may also establish and implement further policies
regarding the preparation, editing and format of ordinances.
§ 1-1-9: RECORDKEEPING:
   A.   The City Clerk is responsible for the safe and orderly keeping of
ordinances, resolutions, and policies adopted by the City Council. The City
Clerk must maintain a current record of adopted ordinances, resolutions, and
Council policies.
   B.   The City Clerk may make minor, non-substantive corrections to the City
Code, ordinances, resolutions, and Council policies, upon the written advice or
recommendation of the City Attorney and without the necessity of further
Council action. The City Attorney must confirm that the proposed changes do not
alter the meaning of the record being corrected. The corrections authorized by
this subdivision include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Correction of grammatical, punctuation and spelling errors;
      2.   Correction of typographical errors;
      3.   Removal of duplicate pages;
      4.   Correction of incorrect references to federal laws, statutes, this
Code, or other similar legal or technical sources;
      5.   Substitution of written words for figures and vice versa;
      6.   Corrections to legal descriptions of real property, as may be
required to enable recording of a record, provided that any changes must be
consistent with parcel sketches or other depictions provided to the Council at
the time of Council approval of the ordinance or resolution that is corrected.
§ 1-1-10: ELECTRONIC SIGNATURES:
   Ordinances and resolutions adopted by the City Council or any City Board or
Commission may be signed and attested to by the use of an electronic signature.
The electronic signature must meet the requirements of the Minnesota Uniform
Electronic Transactions Act, Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 325L, as if the
ordinance or resolution were part of a transaction as defined by that Statute.
CHAPTER 2: DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATIONS
Section
1-2-1: Definitions
1-2-2: Statutory Definitions; Documents Adopted By Reference
1-2-3: Internal Definitions
1-2-4: Interpretation; Conflicts
§ 1-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   CITY: The City of Cottage Grove, County of Washington, State of Minnesota.
   CODE, THIS CODE OR CODE OF ORDINANCES: The City Code of the City of Cottage
Grove adopted by ordinance as organized, compiled and codified herein.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME: The time in which any act provided by law is to be done
is computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last
day falls on Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, and then it is also
excluded.
   COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the City Council of the City of Cottage
Grove.
   COUNTY: The County of Washington, State of Minnesota.
   IN THE CITY: Means and includes all territory over which the City now has or
shall hereafter acquire jurisdiction for the exercise of its police powers or
other regulatory powers.
   OFFICERS: A reference to an elected or appointed City officer includes the
duly authorized representative of that officer.
   OWNER: In the case of personal property, a person, other than a lienholder,
having the property in or title to personal property. In the case of real
property, the term means the fee owner of land, or the beneficial owner of land
whose interest is primarily one of possession and enjoyment in contemplation of
ultimate ownership. The term includes, but is not limited to, vendees under a
contract for deed and mortgagors.
   STATE: The State of Minnesota.
§ 1-2-2: STATUTORY DEFINITIONS; DOCUMENTS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
   For purposes of this Code, the terms defined in Minnesota Statutes Sections
645.44 and 645.45 have the meanings given them by those sections, and terms
defined by statutes, rules or regulations, and ordinances adopted by reference
have the meanings given them therein.
§ 1-2-3: INTERNAL DEFINITIONS:
   Terms defined in other sections of this Code have the meanings given them by
those sections.
§ 1-2-4: INTERPRETATION; CONFLICTS:
   A.   Common Word Usage: Words and phrases used in this Code are to be
interpreted and understood in accordance with common and accepted usage, but
any technical words or phrases or such others as have acquired a specific or
peculiar meaning are to be interpreted and understood in accordance with such
meaning.
   B.   Application of Statutory Rules: Unless otherwise provided herein, or by
law or implication required, the same rules of construction, definition, and
application shall govern the interpretation of this Code as those governing the
interpretation of State law contained in Minnesota Statutes Sections 645.08
through 645.43.
   C.   State Regulations; Regulations of Other Municipalities: References in
this Code to Minnesota Statutes are to the most current Minnesota Statutes and
Laws of Minnesota, unless otherwise provided in this Code. References in this
Code to rules and regulations of State agencies, codes and ordinances of other
municipalities are those documents in effect upon the adoption of this Code,
unless otherwise provided.
   D.   Catchlines; Cross-References: Chapter, Section and subsection titles,
catchlines and cross-references are not substantive parts of this Code, but
merely matters to expedite and simplify its use.
   E.   Greater Restrictions: It is the intent of the City Council that the
provisions of this Code are the fullest exercise of the regulatory and other
powers granted to it by State law. Where this Code imposes a more stringent
rule or standard of conduct than contained in similar provisions of State law,
rule or regulation, it is the intent of the Council that the provisions of this
Code prevail over that State law, rule or regulation to the extent permitted by
law.
   F.   Errors. Grammatical errors do not negate an ordinance. A transposition
of words or clauses may be used when a sentence is without meaning as written.
Words or phrases that may be necessary for the proper interpretation of an
ordinance may be added if they do not conflict with its obvious intent and do
not affect its scope and operation.
   G.   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
CHAPTER 3: GENERAL PENALTY
Section
1-3-1: Enforcement and Inspections
1-3-2: General Penalty
1-3-3 Application of Provisions
1-3-4: Appeals
§ 1-3-1: ENFORCEMENT AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Any licensed peace officer of the City’s Police Department, or the
County Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff, shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this Code.
   B.   The following individuals designated in this Section, or their
designee, shall have the authority to administer and enforce the provisions of
this Code:
      1.   Building Official;
      2.   City Administrator;
      3.   City Clerk;
      4.   Code Enforcement Officer;
      5.   Community Development Director;
      6.   Community Service Officer;
      7.   Fire Chief, Fire Inspector, Fire Marshal;
      8.   Parks & Recreation Director;
      9.   Public Works Director.
   C.   Any City Official or employee designated by this Code who has the
responsibility to perform a duty under this Code may, with the permission of a
licensee of a business or owner of any property or resident of a dwelling, or
other person in control of any premises, inspect or otherwise enter any
property to enforce compliance with this Code.
   D.   Inspection of Buildings and Premises.
      1.   General Rule: For the purpose of safeguarding the health and safety
of the general public and of the occupants of all buildings or to determine
compliance with the Code, an order or a permit or license, it is the duty of
any authorized officer to conduct inspections to determine the condition of the
buildings and premises located within the City. For the purpose of making the
inspection, the authorized officer is authorized to enter, examine and survey
the building or premises at all reasonable times.
      2.   Notice: Prior to making the inspection, the authorized officer will
inform the occupants of the building or premises to be inspected of the date
and time of the inspection by personal service or regular mail postmarked not
less than 72 hours prior to the time the inspection is made.
      3.   Access: After the written notice has been given, the owner, occupant
or operator of the building must give the authorized officer free access to the
building and its premises, for the purpose of the inspection, examination or
survey, provided that the inspection, examination or survey must not have for
its purpose the harassment of the owner or occupant and the inspection,
examination or survey is made so as to cause the least amount of inconvenience
to the owner or occupant.
      4.   Emergency Access: The authorized officer must be allowed immediate
entry:
         a.   At any time when in the opinion of the authorized officer an
actual emergency tending to create an immediate danger to public health and
safety exists; or
         b.   At any time when the inspection, examination or survey may be
requested by the owner or occupant.
   E.   Application for Search Warrant: Upon a refusal of any owner or occupant
to permit the authorized officer access to a dwelling, dwelling unit or
premises to make an inspection, and upon a belief of probable cause that the
dwelling, dwelling unit or premises does not conform to the requirements of
this Code, the authorized officer may make application to the appropriate court
for an order or warrant directing the inspection and search of the dwelling,
dwelling unit or premises for its conformity to the requirements of this Code,
and any evidence or information from the inspection or search may be used in
any court proceedings.
   F.   Interference with Official Duties: It is unlawful for any person to
prevent, delay or interfere with representatives of the City while they are
engaged in the performance of their duties.
   G.   Reinspection Fees: The City may charge a reinspection fee for
violations of any ordinance related to buildings and premises.
§ 1-3-2: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Violation; Misdemeanor. Any person, firm, or corporation who violates
any provision of this Code for which another penalty is not specifically
provided shall be a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any crime
which is a misdemeanor under this Code, including Minnesota Statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than ninety
(90) days in jail or a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00),
or both.
   B.   Violation; Petty Misdemeanor. Any person firm, or corporation who
violates any provision of this Code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically
adopted by reference, which is designated to be a petty misdemeanor, shall
receive a fine of not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00).
   C.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which
a violation occurs or continues.
   D.   In addition to any penalties provided for in this Section or this Code,
if any person, firm, or corporation fails to comply with any provision of this
Code, the Council or any City Official designated by it, may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the
violation.
§ 1-3-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The penalties enacted by this Chapter or as otherwise stated in another
Section of this Code shall apply to subsequent amendments to any Chapter or
Section of this Code, regardless of whether or not such penalties are expressly
stated in the amended ordinance. The general penalties of Section
1-3-2 shall not apply if the amended ordinance specifically states an
alternative penalty.
   B.   Where a provision of this Code or a statute adopted by reference herein
sets a lesser penalty or a different period constituting a violation than set
out in Section
1-3-2, the Code provision will prevail.
§ 1-3-4: APPEALS:
   A.   Contesting a Violation. Except for criminal citations, a person
receiving a violation notice from a Code Enforcement Officer or other decision
from which an appeal may be taken pursuant to City Code, may contest the
alleged violation by notifying the City Clerk in writing within ten (10)
calendar days after the violation notice is mailed or personally served,
stating why the offender contests the alleged violation. The offender must pay
a non-refundable filing fee along with the appeal, pursuant to the City’s fee
ordinance.
   B.   Hearing. After receipt of a written notice with the filing fee, the
City Clerk shall schedule a hearing with the City Administrator, or their
designee. The decision of the City Administrator shall be supported by written
findings of fact based upon the applicable provisions of the Code as well as
any evidence presented. The decision of the City Administrator is final.
CHAPTER 4: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
1-4-1: Election and Terms of Mayor and City Council
1-4-2: Salaries
1-4-3: Meetings
1-4-4: Presiding Officer; Appeals
1-4-5: Quorum
1-4-6: Voting Procedures
1-4-7: Resolutions, Motions, and Ordinances
1-4-8: Minutes
1-4-9: Suspension, Repeal or Amendment of Rules
1-4-10: Elected Official Meetings
§ 1-4-1: ELECTION AND TERMS OF MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   The Mayor and members of the City Council shall be elected for terms of
four (4) years during the City’s regular biennial elections.
   B.   Biennial Election Date: The regular City election shall be held
biennially on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November in each
even-numbered year. The City Clerk must give notice of the election in the
manner provided by law, however, failure to give notice does not invalidate the
election.
   C.   Registration of Voters:
      1.   Registration System Adopted: The system for the registration of
voters provided by Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 201, is hereby adopted by the
City.
      2.   Voters to be Registered: No person shall be permitted to vote at any
election held in the City unless they shall have registered as provided in
Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 201.
§ 1-4-2: SALARIES:
   Pursuant to the authority granted by Minnesota Statutes Section 415.11,
beginning January 1, 2023, the salary of the Mayor shall be twelve thousand
five hundred eighty-five dollars ($12,585.00) per year, and the salary of each
City Council member shall be nine thousand four hundred eighty dollars
($9,480.00) per year. Thereafter, beginning in January of every odd-numbered
year, the Mayor and Council shall receive a salary adjustment in an amount that
equals the cost-of-living increase provided to the City’s non-union employees
for the preceding two (2) years.
§ 1-4-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings:
      1.   Time and Place: Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held
on the first and third Wednesdays of each calendar month at seven o'clock (7:
00) P.M. Any regular meeting falling upon a holiday shall be held on the next
following business day at the same time and place. The Council may amend the
regular meeting schedule at the first regular meeting of the year and may
cancel any regular meeting by majority vote of the Council. All regular
meetings shall be held in the City Hall, unless the City Council decides
otherwise at a prior meeting, or meeting in the City Hall is impossible.
      2.   Duties at First Regular Meeting of Year: At the first regular City
Council meeting in January of each year, the Council shall perform the
following duties:
         a.   Designate the depositories of City funds.
         b.   Designate the official newspaper.
         c.   Choose an acting Mayor from the Council members who shall perform
the duties of the Mayor during the disability or absence of the Mayor from the
City or, in case of vacancy in the office of Mayor, until a successor has been
appointed.
         d.   Approve the schedule of regular meetings for the calendar year.
         e.   Establish and appoint Council members to those City Council
Committees as are deemed appropriate for the efficient and orderly management
of the City.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the City Council may be called by
the Mayor or any two (2) Council members by filing a writing with the City
Clerk. The City Clerk shall provide notice of all special meetings in
compliance with applicable law.
   C.   Emergency Meetings:
      1.   Definition: An “emergency meeting” is a special meeting called
because of circumstances that, in the judgment of the City, require immediate
consideration by the City Council.
      2.   Notice: For an emergency meeting, the City Clerk shall make good
faith efforts to provide notice of a meeting to each news medium that has filed
a written request for notice if the request includes the news medium’s
telephone number. Notice of the emergency meeting shall be given by telephone
or by any other method used to notify the members of the City Council. Notice
shall be provided to each news medium which has filed a written request for
notice as soon as reasonably practicable after notice has been given to City
Council members. Notice shall include the subject of the meeting. Posted or
published notice of an emergency meeting shall not be required.
   D.   Open to the Public: All City Council meetings, including special and
emergency meetings, and meetings of City Council Committees, as well as
meetings of City Commissions and Boards, shall be conducted in accordance with
the Minnesota Open Meeting Law, Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 13D.
   E.   Open Forum: Each regular meeting shall contain a segment for the
purpose of receiving open forum comments. Persons may address the City Council
on subjects that are not a part of the regular meeting agenda but must limit
remarks to the period of time established by the Council. The purpose of open
forum is to provide an opportunity for the public to provide information to or
request action by the City Council, and it may not be used to make personal
attacks, to air personal grievances, to make political endorsements, or for
political campaign purposes. Open forum is limited to a total of fifteen (15)
minutes, unless the presiding officer allows additional time.
   F.   Robert’s Rules of Order: Except as otherwise provided by statute or by
this Chapter, the proceedings of the City Council shall be conducted in
accordance with current “Robert’s Rules of Order, Revised.”
   G.   Each regular meeting of the Council shall convene at the time and place
appointed therefor. Council business shall be conducted in the order
established by the Council by resolution.
§ 1-4-4: PRESIDING OFFICER; APPEALS:
   A.   Officials Serve as Presiding Officer: The Mayor shall preside at all
meetings of the Council. In the absence of the Mayor, the acting Mayor shall
preside. In the absence of both, the City Clerk shall call the meeting to order
and shall preside until the Council members present at the meeting choose one
(1) member to act temporarily as presiding officer.
   B.   Duties: The presiding officer shall preserve order, enforce the rules
of procedure prescribed in this Chapter and determine without debate, subject
to the final decision of the Council on appeal, all questions of procedure and
order.
   C.   Appeal of Rulings of Presiding Officer: Any member may appeal to the
Council from a ruling of the presiding officer. If the appeal is seconded, the
member may speak once solely on the question involved, and the presiding
officer may explain their ruling, but no other Council member shall participate
in the discussion. The appeal shall be sustained if it is approved by a
majority of the members present, exclusive of the presiding officer. The Mayor
or such other member of the Council as may be presiding may move, second and
debate from the chair. The presiding officer shall not be deprived of any of
the privileges of a Council member by reason of their acting as the presiding
officer.
§ 1-4-5: QUORUM:
   At all Council meetings, a majority of all the Council members elected shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
§ 1-4-6: VOTING PROCEDURE:
   The votes of the members on any questions before the Council may be taken in
any manner which signifies the intention of the individual members, and the
votes of the Council members on any action taken shall be recorded in the
minutes. A roll call will be taken upon request of any member of the Council.
§ 1-4-7: RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS, AND ORDINANCES:
   A.   Resolutions, Motions:
      1.   An adopted resolution must be signed by the Mayor, attested to by
the City Clerk, and filed in the resolution book. An adopted resolution takes
effect immediately or at a later date stated therein.
      2.   The Council may conduct business by motion when a resolution or
ordinance is not required. All motions shall be recorded in the minutes.
   B.   Ordinances:
      1.   An ordinance must be presented in writing. A majority vote of all
members of the Council shall be necessary for approval of any ordinance, unless
a larger number is required by statute.
      2.   Every ordinance passed by the Council shall be signed by the Mayor,
attested to by the City Clerk, and filed in the ordinance book. Proof of
publication of every ordinance shall be attached to and filed with the
ordinance.
   C.   Repeal and Amendment of Ordinances and Resolutions: Every ordinance or
resolution repealing a previous ordinance or resolution, or a section or
subdivision thereof, shall give the number, if any, and the title of the
ordinance or resolution to be repealed in whole or in part.
§ 1-4-8: MINUTES:
   A.   Responsibility for Recording Minutes: Minutes of each Council meeting
shall be kept by the City Clerk. In the absence of the City Clerk, the
presiding officer shall appoint a secretary pro tem, who shall be responsible
for keeping the minutes. Ordinances and resolutions need not be recorded in
full in the minutes if they appear in other permanent records of the City Clerk
and can be accurately identified from the description given in the minutes.
   B.   Approval: The minutes from a City Council meeting shall be approved by
the Council at a Council meeting. Any Council member may call for any additions
or corrections to the minutes prior to approval.
   C.   Inspection: Any person may inspect the minutes of the City Council
meeting upon request at reasonable times.
§ 1-4-9: SUSPENSION, REPEAL OR AMENDMENT OF RULES:
   The rules of this Chapter may be temporarily suspended, either in part or in
their entirety, by a majority vote of those present. The rules may not be
amended or repealed except by a majority vote of all members of the Council.
§ 1-4-10: ELECTED OFFICIAL MEETINGS:
   A.   Minnesota Statutes Section 211B.10, subdivision 2, permits elected
officials time off from their regular employment to attend meetings required by
reason of the public office.
   B.   City Council members are required to attend the following meetings in
fulfillment of their duties as Council members:
      1.   Regular, special and emergency meetings of the City Council;
      2.   Meetings of joint powers entities to which the City Council member
is appointed as the member representative of the City;
      3.   City Committees to which the elected official is appointed by the
City Council as an official member; and
      4.   Other meetings or events at which the elected official appears in
their official capacity or at the direction of the City Council.
CHAPTER 5: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
1-5-1: Self-Insurance Fund
1-5-2: Taxing Districts
1-5-3: Special Assessment Deferral
1-5-4: Special Assessments; Partial Prepayment
1-5-5: Local Lodging Tax
1-5-6: Charges for Ambulance Services and Collection
1-5-7: Street Light Utility Rates
1-5-8: Storm Sewer System Rates and Charges
1-5-9: Excessive Use of Public Safety Services
§ 1-5-1: SELF-INSURANCE FUND:
   A.   Fund Established: A self-insurance fund is hereby established for the
City for the purposes herein set forth.
   B.   Purpose: The City establishes a fund to provide self-insurance against
liability of the City and its officers, employees, agents and servants under
Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 466 and any other laws for damages resulting from
its torts, including torts for which the City has immunity and those torts of
its officers, employees, agents and servants. The establishment of the fund,
the allocation of funds to it or the expenditure of funds, or any other act in
conjunction with the establishing or operation of the fund, shall not waive any
immunity granted to a political subdivision nor shall it waive any statutory
limitation on liability afforded a political subdivision.
   C.   Authorized Expenditures: The City Council may authorize expenditures
from the fund for any one (1) or more of the following purposes:
      1.   Payment of losses.
      2.   Costs of defense and investigation.
      3.   Premiums and deductible amounts when commercial insurance is
purchased for a risk.
      4.   Costs of loss control activities.
      5.   Any other costs customarily borne by commercial insurers under
conventional insurance policies.
§ 1-5-2: TAXING DISTRICTS:
   A.   Establishment and Determination:
      1.   Districts Established: The City hereby divides the area within its
limits into an urban service district and a rural service district constituting
separate taxing districts for the purpose of all City property taxes except
those levied for the payment of bonds and judgments and interest thereon.
      2.   Determination of Taxing Ratio: In the judgment of the City Council
the ratio which exists between the benefits resulting from tax supported
municipal service to parcels in the rural service district to parcels in the
urban service district is seventy percent (70%), plus any municipal property
taxes levied for payment of bonds, and judgments and interest thereon.
   B.   Rural Service District:
      1.   Lands Included in Rural Service District: The rural service district
shall include lands which need not be contiguous to one another as in the
judgment of the City Council at the time of adoption of the ordinance are rural
in character, and are not developed for commercial, industrial, or urban
residential purposes and for these reasons are not benefited to the same degree
as other lands by municipal services financed by general taxation.
      2.    The rural service district shall consist of the properties listed
in Resolution 00-94, or as may be amended by the City Council; provided,
however, that the City Council may subsequently remove properties from the
rural service district by resolution in accordance with this section.
      3.   Removing Properties from Rural Service District: Whenever any parcel
of land included in the rural service district is platted for urban
development; or whenever application is made for a permit for construction of a
commercial, industrial, urban residential building or improvement; or whenever
such improvement or building is commenced without a permit; or whenever the
primary use of a parcel of property changes to a use other than rural
agricultural; the governing body shall make and enter an order by resolution or
ordinance transferring such parcel or part thereof from the rural service
district to the urban service district.
   C.   Urban Service District: Lands Included in Urban Service District: The
urban service district consists of all properties within the boundaries of the
City that are not included in the rural service district.
§ 1-5-3: SPECIAL ASSESSMENT DEFERRAL:
   A.   Deferral Authorized: Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes Sections 435.193
through 435.195 senior citizens and retired, disabled homeowners or military
persons may defer special assessments levied against homestead property owned
by the applicant if the criteria set forth in subsection B of this section are
met by the applicant.
   B.   Criteria: Any person sixty-five (65) years of age or older or retired
by virtue of a permanent and total disability for whom it would be a hardship
to make the payments or owned by a person who is a member of the Minnesota
National Guard or other military reserves who is ordered into active military
service, as defined in Minnesota Statutes Section 190.05, subdivision 5b or 5c,
as stated in the person’s military orders, for whom it would be a hardship to
make the payments may defer special assessments levied against real property
for public improvements if all of the following conditions are met:
      1.   Ownership: The applicant must be the fee simple owner of the
property or must be a contract vendee for fee simple ownership. An applicant
must provide either a recorded deed or contract for deed with the application
to establish a qualified ownership interest as required herein.
      2.   Homestead: The property must be the applicant’s principal place of
domicile and classified on the City’s and County’s real estate tax rolls as the
applicant’s homestead.
      3.   Gross Income: The applicant’s gross income and gross income of all
other joint tenants, tenants in common or contract vendees in title to the
property may not exceed two hundred percent (200%) of the poverty level as
published in the federal register during the preceding year from the assessment
levy. Gross income determinations shall be made under a formula as set forth on
a form provided by the City.
   C.   Interest on Deferred Assessment: All deferred special assessments shall
be subject to and charged simple interest at the interest rate adopted at the
time the assessment was originally levied. Said interest shall be payable upon
termination of the deferral status.
   D.   Termination of Deferral Status: Special assessment payments deferred
pursuant to the eligibility requirements set forth in subsection B of this
section shall become payable effective upon the occurrence of one (1) of the
following events:
      1.   Conveyance of Property: The subject property is sold, transferred,
subdivided, or in any way conveyed to another by the fee owner.
      2.   Death of Owner: The death of the fee owner qualified for deferral
status unless a surviving joint tenant, tenant in common, or contract vendee is
eligible for the deferral benefit provided hereunder.
      3.   Non-homestead Property: The subject property loses its homestead
status for any reason.
      4.   No Hardship: The City Council determines that there would be no
hardship to require an immediate or partial payment of the deferred special
assessment.
§ 1-5-4: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PARTIAL PREPAYMENT:
   A.   This section governs prepayment of special assessments levied by the
City under the authority of Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 429.
   B.   The owner of any property against which a special assessment has been
levied may, within thirty (30) days of adoption, pay a portion of the
assessment to the City Finance Director, subject to the requirements of this
section.
   C.   Any partial prepayment made under this section must be in the amount of
five hundred dollars ($500.00) or greater and no interest will be charged on
prepayment amounts.
   D.   The remaining balance of the levied special assessment will be
certified to the County Auditor in the manner provided by Minnesota Statutes,
Chapter 429.
§ 1-5-5: LOCAL LODGING TAX:
   A.   Local Lodging Tax Purpose and Definitions:
      1.   Purpose: In order to fund a local convention and visitors bureau for
the purpose of marketing and promoting the City of Cottage Grove as a tourist
and convention center, it is in the best interest of the City to impose a local
lodging tax in accordance with Minnesota Statutes Section 469.190.
      2.   Definitions: As used in this Section
1-5-5, the following terms shall have the following meanings ascribed to them:
         LODGING: The furnishing for consideration of lodging to transient
guests at a hotel, motel, rooming house, short term vacation rental (i.e. VRBO,
Airbnb), or resort, where the renting or leasing is for a period of less than
thirty (30) consecutive days.
         OPERATOR: Any person, corporation, partnership, or association who
provides lodging to others.
         RENT: The total consideration valued in money charged for lodging
whether paid in money or otherwise but shall not include any charges for
services rendered in connection with such lodging.
   B.   Imposition and Collection of Tax: All operators shall impose and
collect a tax of three percent (3%) on the gross receipts from the furnishing
of lodging at the time lodging charges are paid. The amount of tax shall be
separately stated from the lodging charges and held in trust for the City until
remitted.
   C.   Payment and Returns:
      1.   The operator shall remit all taxes collected hereunder to the City
on April 1st, July 1st, October 1st and December 1st of each year. When payment
is made to the City, the operator shall also file a tax return on a form
provided by the City containing the following information and such other
information as the City may require:
         a.   The total amount of gross receipts for lodging during the tax
return period.
         b.   The amount of tax imposed and collected as required for the tax
return period.
         c.   The signature of the person filing the tax return, or his/her
designee.
         d.   The period covered by the tax return.
         e.   The amount of uncollectible rent subject to the lodging tax.
      2.   The operator may offset the amount of taxes imposed by this section
previously paid hereunder as a result of any transaction, the consideration for
which became uncollectible during such reporting period, against the taxes due
and payable with respect to any reporting period, but only in proportion to the
portion of such consideration which became uncollectible.
   C.   Examination of Return, Adjustments, Notices and Demands: After a return
is filed, the City shall examine it and may make any investigation or
examination of the records and accounts of the operator making the return as
deemed necessary for determining its correctness. If requested, the operator
shall provide its records and accounts to the City for inspection and
examination within fifteen (15) days of the City’s request. If, after any
investigation or examination, it is determined that the tax due is greater than
that paid, such excess shall be paid to the City within ten (10) days after the
City has given notice either personally or sent by certified mail to the
address shown on the return. If the tax paid is greater than the tax found to
be due, the excess shall be refunded within ten (10) days after determination
of such refund. Whenever any tax due has a ten percent (10%) or more
discrepancy, the operator shall reimburse the City for any costs incurred by
the City in reviewing the operator’s return, including administrative costs and
attorneys’ fees.
   D.   Refunds: Any operator may apply to the City for a refund of taxes paid
in excess of the amount legally due for that period, provided that it is filed
within one (1) year after such tax was paid, or within one (1) year from the
filing of the return, whichever period is longer. If such claim is approved in
whole or in part the City shall credit the amount of the refund against any
taxes due and owing hereunder by the operator. Any balance of the refund shall
promptly be paid by the City to the operator.
   E.   Failure to File a Return: Any operator who fails to file a return as
required, or who files an incorrect, false, or fraudulent return, then upon
written notice and demand by the City, shall file a return or corrected return
together with any tax due within thirty (30) days of the City sending the
written notice. Whenever any person fails to file the appropriate return under
this provision or fails to pay the tax due after such notice and demand, the
City may determine the appropriate tax from such knowledge and information as
the City is able to obtain and assess such tax accordingly. Any tax determined
to be due and owing under this provision shall be paid by the operator within
five (5) days after written notice and demand for such payment is sent by the
City. Any assessment made by the City shall be prima facie correct and valid;
and the operator shall have the burden of establishing the assessment is
incorrect or invalid. Late payments shall be subject to interest at the rate of
eight percent (8%) per annum.
   F.   Failure to Remit Tax Payment: If any portion of a tax and penalties is
not paid within thirty (30) days after it is required to be paid, the City may
certify the tax as a lien against the real property on which the lodging
establishment is located, along with interest, penalties, administrative costs,
and attorneys’ fees.
   G.   Extension for Filing or Payment: Upon showing of good cause, the
Finance Director may grant an operator a thirty (30) day extension within which
to file a return or make payment of taxes. Interest shall accrue during such
extension period at the rate of eight percent (8%) per annum.
   H.   Penalties and Interest:
      1.   If any tax required is not paid within the time specified or within
the approved extension period, the operator shall pay a penalty equal to ten
percent (10%) of the amount unpaid, in addition to the tax due and payable.
      2.   Any tax not paid on or before the dates provided in this section,
together with any penalty provided herein, shall bear interest at a rate of
eight percent (8%) per annum and shall begin to accrue at the time the tax was
required to be paid. Any interest and penalty shall be added to the tax and be
collected as part thereof.
   I.   Violations: Any operator who willfully fails to make a return required,
or who fails to pay the tax after written demand for payment, or who fails to
remit the taxes collected or any penalty or interest imposed after written
demand for such payment, or who refuses to permit the City to examine the
books, records and papers under the operator’s control, or who willfully makes
any incomplete, false or fraudulent return shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   J.   Use of Proceeds: Ninety-five percent (95%) of the proceeds obtained
from the collection of taxes shall be used in accordance with Minnesota
Statutes Section 469.190 to fund a local convention or tourism bureau for the
purpose of marketing and promoting the City as a tourist or convention center.
   K.   Appeals:
      1.   Petition Required: Any operator who is aggrieved by any notice,
order, or determination made by the City, may file a petition for
administrative review within thirty (30) days after the notice, order, or
determination has been sent to the operator. The petition shall contain the
following:
         a.   A detailed account of the operator’s reasons for contesting the
order, notice, or determination.
         b.   The name of the operator, the operator’s address, and the
location of the lodging establishment subject to the order, notice or
determination.
      2.   Hearing: The appeal shall first be heard by the City Administrator.
Any decision by the City Administrator shall be supported by written findings
of fact based upon the applicable provisions of this section and the evidence
presented.
      3.   Appeal to the City Council: The operator may appeal the decision of
the City Administrator or the Administrator’s designee to the City Council by
filing a written notice of appeal with the City Clerk within ten (10) days
after the decision has been sent to the operator. The matter will be set before
the City Council as soon as is practical, and the operator shall be given
fourteen (14) days’ notice of the Council hearing. The Council’s standard of
review of the Administrator’s decision shall be based on the record and the
operator shall have the burden to prove the City’s notice, order, or
determination is in error. The Council may modify, reverse, or affirm the
decision of the City Administrator.
   L.   Alternate Method of Collection: The City may agree with the State of
Minnesota Commission of Revenue that the tax imposed by this section shall be
collected by the Commissioner together with the sales tax imposed by Minnesota
Statutes, Chapter 297A and subject to the same interest, penalties and other
rules and that the proceeds, less the cost of collection, shall be remitted to
the City. If the City makes such an agreement pursuant to Minnesota Statutes
Section 469.190, subdivision 7 with the Commissioner of Revenue, then the
interest, penalties, and other rules applicable to the collection of the sales
tax under Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 297A shall also be applicable to the
lodging tax imposed by this section, in lieu of the interest, penalties and
collection rules set forth in this section.
§ 1-5-6: CHARGES FOR AMBULANCE SERVICES AND COLLECTION:
   A.   Authority: This section is adopted pursuant to Minnesota Statutes
Sections 415.01, 366.011 and 366.012.
   B.   Charges for Ambulance Services; Collection: The City may impose a
reasonable service charge for ambulance services provided by the City. If the
service charge remains unpaid for thirty (30) days after a notice of
delinquency is sent to the recipient of the service or the recipient’s
representative or estate, the City may use any lawful means to collect the
service charge that is allowed to a private party for the collection of an
unsecured delinquent debt. The City may also use the authority of Minnesota
Statutes Section 366.012 to collect unpaid service charges of this kind from
recipients of services who are owners of taxable real property in the City, or
areas served by the City for ambulance services.
      The powers conferred by this section are in addition and supplemental to
the powers conferred by any other law for a City to impose a service charge or
assessment for a service provided by the City or contracted for by the City.
   C.   Collection of Unpaid Service Charges: If the City is authorized to
impose a service charge on the owner of a property for ambulance services
provided by the City, the City may certify to the County Auditor on or before
October 15 of each year, any unpaid service charges which shall then be
collected together with property taxes levied against the property. A charge
may be certified to the County Auditor only, if on or before September 15, the
City has given written notice to the property owner of its intention to certify
the charge to the County Auditor. The service charges shall be subject to the
same penalties, interest and other conditions provided for the collection of
property taxes. This section is in addition to other laws authorizing the
collection of unpaid costs and service charges.
§ 1-5-7: STREET LIGHT UTILITY RATES:
   A.   Rates Established:
      1.   Residential: There shall be imposed a special monthly charge upon
each residential lot benefited by the municipal street lighting system for the
operation of the municipal street lighting system, to cover the City cost of
electrical energy for and the maintenance of such system. The amount of said
charge shall be established by Council resolution.
      2.   Commercial: There shall be imposed a special annual charge upon each
commercial lot benefited by the City street lighting system for the operation
of the City street lighting system, to cover the City cost of electrical energy
for and the maintenance of such system. The amount of said charge shall be
established by Council resolution.
   B.   Bills for Service; Liability for Rates: The charges imposed by
subsections A.1 and A.2 of this section shall be billed by quarters or months
or periodic intervals as the City Council determines suitable and necessary.
Bills are payable to the City finance department. The owners of such properties
shall be personally liable for the amounts imposed in this section.
   C.   Unpaid Charges Assessed: On or before September 1 of each year, the
City Clerk shall list any unpaid charges against each separate lot or parcel to
which they are attributable under this section. The Council shall then assess
the unpaid charges against the property benefited as a special assessment under
Minnesota Statutes Section 429.101 and other pertinent statutes to be certified
by the County Auditor and collected the following year along with the current
taxes.
   D.   Disposition of Proceeds: The proceeds of the special charges and
special assessments shall be credited to the City streetlight enterprise fund.
§ 1-5-8: STORM SEWER SYSTEM RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Statutory Authority: Minnesota Statutes Section 444.075 authorizes
cities to impose just and reasonable charges for the use and availability of
storm sewer facilities (“charges”). By this section, the City elects to
exercise such authority.
   B.   Findings and Determinations: In providing for such charges, the
findings and determinations set out in this section are made:
      1.   In the exercise of its governmental authority and in order to
promote the public health, safety, convenience and general welfare, the City
has constructed, operated, and maintained a storm sewer system (“the system”).
This section is adopted in the further exercise of such authority and for the
same purposes.
      2.   The system, as constructed, heretofore has been financed and paid
for through the imposition of special assessments, ad valorem taxes, and storm
water area charges. Such financing methods were appropriate to the
circumstances at the time they were used. It is now necessary and desirable to
provide an alternative method of recovering some or all of the future costs of
improving, maintaining, and operating the system. Additionally, new regulations
have been imposed which require upgrades to the system to address water quality
issues. To address the system’s long term financial needs the City finds it
reasonable to impose charges as provided in this section.
      3.   In imposing charges, it is necessary to establish a methodology that
undertakes to make them just and equitable. Taking into account the status of
completion of the system, past methods of recovering system costs, the
topography of the City and other relevant factors, it is determined that it
would be just and equitable to assign responsibility for some or all of the
future costs of operating, maintaining and improving the system on the basis of
the expected storm water runoff from the various parcels of land within the
City.
      4.   Assigning costs and making charges based upon typical storm water
runoff cannot be done with mathematical precision but can only be accomplished
within reasonable and practical limits. The provisions of this section
undertake to establish a reasonable and practical methodology for making such
charges.
   C.   Rates and Charges:
      1.   Land Use Rate Calculation: Rates and charges for the use and
availability of the system are to be determined through the use of a
“residential equivalent factor” which assesses the amount of runoff from an
acre of single-family urban development during a standard one-year rainfall.
Calculations for the storm water utility for other land uses are based upon
their residential equivalency factor. The rates for commercial, industrial,
schools and churches land uses also take into consideration the amount of hard
surface on the property and the acreage of the site.
      2.   Calculation of Fees: The calculation of fees for the land uses
within the City will be determined by the City’s fee ordinance.
      3.   Other Land Uses: Other land uses not listed in the City’s fee
ordinance are to be classified by the City Administrator by assigning them to
the classes most nearly like the listed uses, from the standpoint of probable
hydrologic response. Appeals from the City Administrator’s determination of the
proper classification may be made to the City Council in the same manner as
other appeals from administrative determinations.
      4.   Adjustments of Charges: The City Council may by ordinance, from time
to time, adopt policies providing for the adjustment of charges for parcels or
grounds of parcels, based upon hydrologic data supplied by affected property
owners, demonstrating an actual hydrologic response substantially different
from the calculation being used for the parcel or parcels. The adjustment may
be made only after receiving the recommendation of the City Administrator and
may not be made effective retroactively. If the adjustment would have the
effect of changing the calculation for all or substantially all of the land
uses in a particular classification, however, such adjustment must be
accomplished by amending the calculation table found within the City’s fee
ordinance.
      5.   Excluded Lands: A charge for system availability of service will not
be made against land which is either: (a) public street right-of-way, or (b)
vacant and unimproved, or fallow, with substantially all of its surface having
vegetation as ground cover.
      6.   Supplying Information: The owner, occupant, or person in charge of
any premises must supply the City with such information as the City may
reasonably request related to the use, development and area of the premises.
Willful failure to provide such information or to falsify it is a violation of
this section.
      7.   Estimated Charges: If the owner, occupant, or person in charge of
any premises fails or refuses to provide the information requested, as provided
above, the charge for such premises must be estimated and billed in accordance
with such estimate, based upon information then available to the City.
      8.   Billings and Collections: The finance department shall render bills
for charges for the use and availability of the system. The Council may also
establish billing areas or districts and bill charges by calendar quarters or
monthly quarters or such periodic intervals as the City Council shall determine
suitable and necessary. Bills are payable at the office of the Finance
Department.
      9.   Penalties and Remedies for Delinquency or Default in Paying
Billings: Penalties and remedies for late payments or nonpayment of billings
are the same as those applicable to billings rendered for water and sanitary
sewer service. In the event a bill becomes delinquent, the City Council may
cause the delinquent charges to become a lien against the property served by
certifying to the County Auditor the amount of such delinquent bill in
accordance with Minnesota Statutes Section 444.075.
      10.   Use of Revenues: Revenues received from charges are to be placed in
a separate storm sewer system account and used to pay the normal, reasonable
and current costs of operating, maintaining, and improving water quality within
the system.
§ 1-5-9: EXCESSIVE USE OF PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES:
   A.   Purpose: The City Council recognizes that the City has limited staff
and resources and finds that repeated responses to nuisance service calls
present a burden to the community at large because they limit the availability
of law enforcement and public safety protection services to other residents of
the City.
      1.   The purpose of this section is to protect the public safety, health,
and welfare by preventing over-consumption and misuse of law enforcement,
emergency, and City services.
      2.   By adopting this section, the City intends to impose and collect
repeat nuisance service call fees from the persons responsible for the nuisance
service call.
   B.   Scope and Applicability: This section applies to all owners, occupants,
and responsible parties of private property which is the subject or location of
the repeat nuisance service calls by the City. This section shall apply to any
repeat nuisance service calls as set forth herein made by City personnel, as
hereinafter defined.
   C.   Definitions: The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this
Chapter shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      CITY PERSONNEL: Includes, but is not limited to, peace officers of the
police department, community service officers, animal control officers, and
reserve police officers.
      NUISANCE SERVICE CALL: A response to any activity, conduct or condition
occurring within the City that unreasonably annoys, injures, or endangers the
safety, health, morals, comfort, or repose of any member of the public, or will
tend to alarm, anger, or disturb others. A nuisance service call includes, but
is not limited to, a response to the following:
      1.   Any activity, conduct or condition violating the following
provisions of the City Code:
         a.   Section
3-6-4 (false reports and alarms);
         b.   Title 4, Chapter 1 (nuisances);
         c.   Section
5-1-2 (disturbing the peace);
         d.   Section
5-3-2 (possession, carrying and transporting weapons);
         e.   Title 5, Chapter 4 (animals);
         f.   Section
5-6-3 (social host/prohibited acts);
         g.   Title 7, Chapter 3 (parks);
      2.   Any activity or conduct violating Minnesota Statutes Section 609.78,
subdivision 1 (4) (Misuse of 911);
      3.   Any activity, conduct or condition violating State laws prohibiting
or regulating prostitution, gambling, controlled substances or use of firearms;
or
      4.   Loud and boisterous conduct, noise and activity that disturbs the
peace, or constitutes a public nuisance or disorderly conduct as defined by the
State Statutes.
      REPEAT NUISANCE SERVICE CALL FEE: The fee upon the responsible party if
the City has rendered services or responded for a nuisance service call on
three (3) or more occasions within the twelve (12) months immediately preceding
the current offense. The repeat nuisance service call fee under this section
shall be an amount set forth and duly adopted by City Council resolution.
      RESPONSIBLE PARTY OR PARTIES: The owner, occupant or anyone having
control of real property where the nuisance service call occurred, or the
person or persons responsible or involved in the nuisance service call,
regardless of where the nuisance service call occurred.
   D.   Nuisance Service Call Fee Imposed:
      1.   Notice: After two (2) nuisance service calls within twelve (12)
months, the City shall provide written notice to the responsible party or
parties that subsequent nuisance services calls may result in the imposition of
the repeat nuisance service call fee. The written notice shall:
         a.   State the nuisance conduct, activity or condition that is or has
occurred or is being maintained or permitted, and the dates of the nuisance
conduct, activity or condition;
         b.   State that the responsible party or parties may be subject to a
repeat nuisance service call fee for a third nuisance service call and for
every nuisance service call occurring thereafter within the noticed time period
that involves the same property, unit, complex or persons, in addition to the
City’s right to seek other legal remedies or actions for abatement of the
nuisance or compliance with the law;
         c.   State the amount of the nuisance service call fee that will be
due and payable;
         d.   State that failure to pay may result in the costs being assessed
against the owner’s property or in the issuance of a criminal citation to the
responsible party; and
         e.   Be served personally or by U.S. mail upon the responsible party
or parties at the last known address.
      2.   Imposition of the Fee: If, after written notice is served pursuant
to this section, a subsequent nuisance service call occurs within that time
period provided in the notice, then the City may impose the repeat nuisance
service call fee upon the responsible party or parties, for the third nuisance
service call and every nuisance service call occurring thereafter within the
same noticed time period. The responsible party who received notice pursuant to
subsection D.1 above shall be responsible for payment of the repeat nuisance
service call fee. The City may impose the nuisance service call fee on all
responsible parties. If not paid, the City may assess the costs against the
property pursuant to the assessment process for unpaid charges.
      3.   Appeal: The responsible party or parties may appeal the imposition
or amount of the fee pursuant to City Code Section
1-3-4.
      4.   Exceptions:
         a.   Medical and Mental Health Emergencies: Fees shall not be imposed
for any medical-related emergency response, except for medical-related
emergencies that are violations of Minnesota Statutes Section 609.78.
         b.   Domestic Incidents: Fees shall not be imposed against the victim
for a response to circumstances involving domestic-assault incidents or order
for protection violations, except when the victim consented to a violation of a
court order and the violation resulted in the response.
CHAPTER 6: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section
1-6-1: Disposition of Unclaimed Property
1-6-2: Criminal History and Background Investigations
§ 1-6-1: DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY:
   The City will take custody of all personal property, including lost money,
lawfully coming into the possession of the City and City employees in the
course of municipal operations and remaining unclaimed by its owner. The City
must keep a record of the property, including its disposition.
   A.   Storage of Property: The City department who takes possession of the
property shall arrange for its storage in a safe place for a period of three
(3) months, unless claimed by the true owner with satisfactory proof of
ownership. If storage at City facilities is unavailable or inadequate,
arrangements for storage at privately owned facilities may be arranged.
   B.   Reclamation by Owner: The owner of the property may claim the property
by exhibiting satisfactory proof of ownership and paying the City any storage
or maintenance costs incurred by the City. A receipt for the property shall be
obtained upon release to the owner.
   C.   Disposition of Property: Property held by the City and not claimed by
the true owner within three (3) months of collection will be deemed abandoned.
The City may dispose of abandoned property in one (1) of the following ways:
      1.   Sell the property at a public sale following ten (10) days published
notice in the official newspaper;
      2.   Return the lost property or funds to its finder;
      3.   Convert usable property to City use;
      4.   Donate the property to a tax-exempt, non-profit organization; or
      5.   Scrap unusable property or property of little or no value.
      Property not purchased at a public sale may then be disposed of by the
City in any reasonable manner.
   D.   Summary Disposal: The City may dispose of unclaimed property without
notice and in a summary manner when the City believes this to be in the public
interest and if the City determines that the property:
      1.   Is of a dangerous or perishable nature;
      2.   Is contraband;
      3.   Has no resale value; or
      4.   Cannot be legally or safely sold at a public sale.
   E.   Proceeds of Sale: Net proceeds from the sale of abandoned or unclaimed
property after deduction of storage costs and any costs of sale incurred, if
any, shall be deposited into the treasury of the City, subject to the right of
the former owner to payment of the sale price to them from the fund, less the
storage costs and any costs of the sale, upon application and satisfactory
proof of ownership within six (6) months of the sale.
   F.   Special Provisions; Police Department: Money and other property
lawfully seized by, or voluntarily surrendered to the City at the scene of a
crime or during an official police investigation must be retained by the Public
Safety Director in a safe place until a legal disposition is determined, or the
property is deemed abandoned under subsection C above. If not lawfully claimed
by the true owner with adequate proof of ownership during the three-month
reclamation period outlined in subsection C, non-monetary property may be
disposed of pursuant to subsections C and D above. Sale proceeds or seized
money shall be deposited into the Police Department’s forfeiture and seizure
account to be used only for law enforcement purposes, or as otherwise specified
by state law.
   G.   Disposition of Abandoned Motor Vehicles: The City must dispose of
abandoned motor vehicles by following the procedure in Minnesota Statutes
Sections 168B.01 through 168B.101.
§ 1-6-2: CRIMINAL HISTORY AND BACKGROUND INVESTIGATIONS:
   A.   Purpose and Intent: The purpose and intent of this section is to
establish regulations that will allow the City to access public and private
databases for the specific non-criminal purpose of employment background
investigations for applicants to apply for City employment for the positions
outlined in subsection C below, and for licensing background investigations for
the licenses described in subsection D below.
   B.   Applications: All persons applying for positions for which background
checks are required shall complete an application which shall contain the
following:
      1.   Name, place and date of birth, and residence address.
      2.   Whether the individual has ever used or been known by a name other
than their present name, and, if so, what was such name or names, and
information concerning dates and places where used.
      3.   Such other information as the City Clerk or Public Safety Director
shall require.
   C.   Criminal History Employment Background Investigations; Background
Investigation Required: The City is hereby required to do a criminal history
background investigation on applicants for all regular part-time or full-time
employment with the City, City employees, as well as City volunteers that work
with children or vulnerable adults, unless the City Administrator concludes
that a background investigation is not needed.
      1.   Background Investigation Databases.
         a.   In conducting the criminal history background investigation in
order to screen employment applicants, the Public Safety Director, or their
designee, is authorized to access:
            (1)   Data maintained in the State Bureau of Criminal Apprehension
(BCA) Computerized Criminal History information system in accordance with BCA
policy; and
            (2)   Other public and private databases that are authorized by the
applicant.
         b.   Any BCA data that is accessed and acquired shall be maintained or
destroyed pursuant to the BCA and departmental policies. The results of the BCA
data may be released by the Public Safety Director, or their designee, to the
hiring authority, including the City Council, the City Administrator, or other
City staff involved in the hiring process.
      2.   Written Authorization.
         a.   Before the investigation in undertaken, the applicant must
authorize the investigation by written consent that complies with the
provisions of Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 13, regarding the collection,
maintenance and use of the information.
         b.   Except for the positions set forth in Minnesota Statutes Section
364.09, the City will not reject an applicant for employment on the basis of
the applicant’s prior conviction unless the crime is directly related to the
position of employment sought and the conviction is for a felony, gross
misdemeanor, or misdemeanor punishable with a jail sentence.
         c.   If the City rejects the applicant solely on the basis of the
results of the background investigation, the City shall notify the applicant in
writing of the following:
            (1)   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
            (2)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
Minnesota Statutes Section 364.06;
            (3)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for employment;
and
            (4)   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be
considered upon reapplication.
   D.   Criminal History License Background Investigations; Background
Investigations Required: The Public Safety Department is required, as the
exclusive entity within the City, to perform a criminal history background
investigation on the applicants, owners, officers, managers, or directors
(collectively “applicant”) for certain licenses. When a background
investigation is required, the Public Safety Department shall conduct the
background investigations.
      1.   In conducting the criminal history background investigation in order
to screen license applicants, the Director of Public Safety, or their designee,
is authorized to access:
         a.   BCA data in accordance with BCA policy; and
         b.   Other public and private databases that are authorized by the
applicant.
      2.   Any BCA data that is accessed and acquired shall be maintained or
destroyed pursuant to the BCA and departmental policies. The results of the BCA
data may be released by the Director of Public Safety, or their designee, to
the licensing authority, including the City Council, the City Administrator, or
other City staff involved in the license approval process.
      3.   Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must authorize
the investigation by written consent that complies with the provisions of
Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 13, regarding the collection, maintenance and use
of the information.
      4.   Except for the positions set forth in Minnesota Statutes Section
364.09, the City will not reject an applicant for a license on the basis of the
applicant’s prior conviction unless the crime is directly related to the
license sought and the conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor, or
misdemeanor punishable with a jail sentence. If the City rejects the applicant
solely on the basis of the results of the background investigation, the City
shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
         a.   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
         b.   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
Minnesota Statutes Section 364.06;
         c.   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for the license; and
         d.   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication.
CHAPTER 7: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION
Section
1-7-1: Policy and Purpose
1-7-2: Definitions
1-7-3: Establishment of Organization; Director
1-7-4: Powers and Duties of Director
1-7-5: Local Emergencies
1-7-6: Location of City Council Meetings
1-7-7: Emergency Management A Government Function
1-7-8: Fiscal Matters
1-7-9: Enforcement Authority; Prohibited Conduct; Violation
§ 1-7-1: POLICY AND PURPOSE:
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action, or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure, and in
order to ensure that preparations of the City will be adequate to deal with
such disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to protect
the public peace, health, and safety, and to preserve the lives and property of
the people of the City, it is hereby found and declared to be necessary:
   A.   To establish a City Emergency Management Organization responsible for
City planning and preparation for emergency government operations in times of
disasters.
   B.   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters.
   C.   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between the City and other
political subdivisions of the State and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency preparedness functions.
   D.   To comply with provisions of Minnesota Statutes Section 12.25, which
requires that each political subdivision of Minnesota to establish a local
organization for emergency management.
§ 1-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   DIRECTOR: The Emergency Management Director appointed by the City Council.
   DISASTER: A situation that creates an actual or imminent serious threat to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property or the environment, and for
which traditional sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are
unable to repair or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances that calls for
immediate action to prevent a disaster from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT: The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action, or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering warning services,
communications, radiological, chemical, evacuation, congregate care, emergency
transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant protection,
temporary restoration of public utility services and other functions related to
civil protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to
preparing for and carrying out of the foregoing functions. “Emergency
management” includes those activities sometimes referred to as “civil defense”
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES: The total personnel resources engaged in City
level emergency management functions in act hereunder. This includes personnel
from City departments, authorized volunteers, and private organizations and
agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION: The staff responsible for coordinating
City level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides City liaison and coordination with federal, state and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 1-7-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF ORGANIZATION; DIRECTOR:
   There is hereby created within the City government an Emergency Management
Organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, hereinafter called the Director. The Director
shall be appointed by the City Council. The Director shall have direct
responsibility for the organization, administration and operation of the
Emergency Management Organization.
§ 1-7-4: POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR:
   A.   Develop Mutual Aid Agreements: The Director, with the consent of the
Mayor, may represent the City at any regional or state conference for emergency
management. The Director will recommend to the City Council proposed mutual aid
agreements with other political subdivisions of the State for reciprocal
emergency management aid and assistance in an emergency too great to be dealt
with unassisted. These arrangements shall be consistent with the State
emergency plan.
   B.   Availability of Resources: The Director shall make studies and surveys
of the personnel, industries, and facilities of the City as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster.
   C.   Preparation of Plan: The Director shall prepare a comprehensive
emergency plan for the emergency preparedness of the City and shall present
this plan to the City Council for its approval. When the Council has approved
the plan, it shall be the duty of all City agencies and all emergency
preparedness forces of the City to perform the duties and functions assigned by
the approved plan. The plan may be modified in the same manner. The Director
shall coordinate the emergency management activities of the City so that they
are fully integrated with the emergency plan of the federal government and the
State and correlated with emergency plans of other political subdivisions
within the State.
   D.   Training and Information Programs: In accordance with the State and
City emergency plan, the Director shall institute and conduct training
programs, public information programs, practice warning alerts, and emergency
exercises as may be necessary to ensure prompt and effective operation of the
City emergency plan when a disaster occurs.
   E.   Utilize City Personnel and Equipment: The Director shall utilize the
personnel, services, equipment, supplies and facilities of the existing
departments and agencies of the City to the maximum extent practicable. The
officers and personnel of all City departments and agencies shall, to the
maximum extent practicable, cooperate with and extend such services and
facilities to the City emergency organization and to the Director. The Director
will include the head of each department in the planning and programming of
emergency activities that will involve the use of that department’s resources.
   F.   Training: The Director shall, in cooperation with those City
departments and agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting, and
training of emergency management personnel that may be required to carry out
emergency plans for the City and State. If personnel are recruited to augment a
regular City department or agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to,
and be under the administration and control of, that department or agency.
   G.   Compliance with State Regulations: The Director shall carry out all
lawful orders and regulations issued regarding emergency management. The
Director may issue directives to effectuate these orders and regulations. The
Director will act as advisor and coordinator to the City Administrator and be
responsible for emergency operations during an emergency, unless those duties
are otherwise assigned. The Director will ensure coordination among the
operating departments, non-governmental groups, and other governmental
agencies. The Director shall carry out all orders, rules and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   H.   Submission of Reports: The Director shall prepare and submit reports on
emergency preparedness as may be requested by the Mayor or City Council, or as
required by law.
§ 1-7-5: LOCAL EMERGENCIES:
   A.   Declaration: A local emergency may be declared by the Mayor by written
order. A local emergency cannot be continued for a period in excess of three
(3) days except by or with the consent of the City Council. Any order or
proclamation declaring, continuing, or terminating a local emergency shall be
given prompt and general publicity and shall be filed promptly with the City
Clerk.
   B.   Use of Disaster Plans: A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke
necessary portions of the response and recovery aspects of applicable disaster
plans and may authorize aid and assistance under those plans.
   C.   Council Authority: Whenever reasonably necessary to meet a declared
emergency or to prepare for such an emergency for which adequate regulations
have not been adopted by the Governor or the City Council, the Mayor may by
emergency written order adopt regulations governing the conduct of persons and
the use of property during emergencies; the repair, maintenance, and
safeguarding of essential public services; emergency health, fire, and safety
regulation drills, or practice periods required for preliminary training; and
all other matters that are reasonably necessary to protect public safety,
health, and welfare in a declared emergency.
   D.   Resolution of Emergency Regulations: Every resolution adopting
emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall be dated; shall refer to the
particular emergency to which it pertains, if so limited; and shall be filed in
the office of the City Clerk. A copy shall be kept posted and available for
public inspection during business hours.
   E.   Time Limitation: The City Council may rescind any emergency declaration
by resolution at any time.
   F.   Contracts and Obligations: During a declared emergency, the City may
enter into contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by
protecting the health and safety of persons and property and providing
emergency assistance to the victims of the disaster. The City may do so without
compliance and formalities prescribed by law for the purchase of supplies,
materials, and equipment, limitations upon tax levies, and the appropriation
and expenditure of public funds
§ 1-7-6: LOCATION OF CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS:
   When an emergency or disaster makes it imprudent or impossible to conduct
the affairs of the City at its regular locations, the City Council may meet at
any place, inside or outside the City limits, or by electronic means pursuant
to state law. A temporary disaster meeting location for the City Council may
continue until a new location is established or until the emergency or disaster
is terminated and the City Council is able to return to its normal location.
§ 1-7-7: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION:
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which they would
otherwise be entitled under this Chapter, or under the workers’ compensation
law, or under any pension law, nor the right of any such person to receive any
benefits or compensation under any act of Congress.
§ 1-7-8: FISCAL MATTERS:
   There is hereby established an account in the general fund to be known as
the emergency management account. Into this account shall be placed the
proceeds of taxes levied for emergencies, money transferred from other funds,
gifts and other revenues of the emergency management organization. From it
shall be made expenditures for the operation and maintenance of the emergency
management organization.
§ 1-7-9: ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY; PROHIBITED CONDUCT; VIOLATION:
   A.   The members of the City Fire Department, Police Department, or other
law enforcement agencies having jurisdiction in the City, and other people
authorized by the Mayor, City Council, or Emergency Management Director are
authorized and directed to enforce this Chapter and the orders and regulations
made pursuant to this Section.
   B.   During the period of a declared local emergency, no person may:
      1.   Enter or remain on the premises of an establishment that is not open
for business to the general public, unless the person is the owner or the
owner’s agent;
      2.   Violate an order or regulation properly issued by the Mayor or City
Council, or a directive issued by the Emergency Management Director or the
Director’s authorized agent; or
      3.   Willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay a person who is authorized to
enforce this Chapter while that person is exercising those duties or enforcing
an order or regulation issued under authority of this Chapter or state law.
   C.   Any person who violates any provision of this Chapter or any regulation
adopted thereunder relating to acts, omissions, or conduct other than official
acts of City employees or officers is guilty of a misdemeanor.
TITLE 2: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
2-1-1: Establishment of Boards, Committees and Commissions
2-1-2: Composition; Appointments; Terms of Office; Vacancies
2-1-3: Ex Officio Members
2-1-4: Qualifications of Members
2-1-5: Absences and Removals
2-1-6: Organization
2-1-7: Rules of Procedure
2-1-8: Meetings
2-1-9: Powers and Duties; Advisory Capacity
2-1-10: Cooperation of City Officials and Employees
2-1-11: Compensation
§ 2-1-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF BOARDS, COMMITTEES AND COMMISSIONS:
   Pursuant to State law, the following Boards, Committees and Commissions are
hereby established:
   A.   Advisory Committee for Historic Preservation, as authorized by
Minnesota Statutes Section 471.193 and Minnesota Statutes Section 138.51.
   B.   Parks, Recreation and Natural Resources Commission, as authorized by
Minnesota Statutes Section 412.501.
   C.   Planning Commission, as authorized by Minnesota Statutes Section
462.354.
   D.   By resolution, the Council may establish or dissolve any other Boards,
Commissions or Committees as it deems appropriate. Each Board, Commission or
Committee created by the Council shall follow the rules and procedures set
forth in this Chapter.
§ 2-1-2: COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENTS; TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES:
   A.   Composition; Appointments; Terms: Unless otherwise stated herein or by
separate resolution, each Commission shall consist of seven (7) members, each
appointed by the Council for terms of two (2) years. Term years shall begin on
March 1 in the year of appointment.
      No Commission member may serve more than four (4) consecutive two (2)
year terms. Upon expiration of a term, the appointed Commission member shall
continue until reappointed, or a successor is appointed.
   B.   Vacancies: In the event of a vacancy, the City Council shall appoint a
person to complete the unexpired term of such vacancy. Filling an unexpired
term of one (1) year or less shall not be counted against the term limit.
§ 2-1-3: EX OFFICIO MEMBERS:
   The Council may appoint ex officio, non-voting members to the Commission
when such appointment, in the sole discretion of the appointing authority, is
deemed beneficial to aiding the Commission in fulfilling its assigned duties.
Ex officio members of the Commission may be the Mayor or other members of the
City Council. The Council may also appoint up to two (2) youth (ages eighteen
(18) or under) residents of the community to serve as ex officio members on any
Commission. The term of any youth ex officio member appointment shall be one
(1) year from the date of appointment, which may be renewed for a second one
(1) year term by the Council.
§ 2-1-4: QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS:
   Each Commission member shall be a resident of the City for a period of at
least one (1) year prior to the date of their appointment.
§ 2-1-5: ABSENCES AND REMOVALS:
   A.   Absence from Meetings: An unexcused absence from three (3) consecutive
regular meetings of a commission or four (4) meetings in any one (1) year
period (beginning March 1) shall be deemed a resignation of a Commission
member, and the vacancy shall be filled according to the procedures set forth
in this Chapter. To be excused, an absence must be requested in writing by the
affected member, granted by the Commission Chairperson (or the vice chair if
the Chairperson makes the request) and notice shall be given to the City Clerk
and the Council Liaison.
   B.   Removal of Members: The Council may remove any member from a Commission
whenever, in its discretion, the Council deems it to be in the best interest of
the City.
§ 2-1-6: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Appointment and Election of Officers; Officer Duties; Staff Liaison.
      1.   Chair: The Commission Chair shall be appointed by the City Council.
It shall be the duty of the Chair to preside at all meetings of the Commission,
to represent the Commission before the Council, other organizations and to the
public, subject to the direction and review of the Council.
      2.   Vice Chair: It shall be the duty of the Vice Chair to carry out the
duties of the Chair in their absence.
   B.   Staff Liaison: The City Administrator shall designate a member of the
City staff to serve as Liaison and provide administrative support to each
Commission. It shall be the duty of the staff liaison to keep minutes and
records of all proceedings of the Commission; to render notice of all meetings
of the Commission; to communicate all recommendations to the Council; to
receive, record, report and transmit all correspondence of the Commission; to
maintain permanent files and resource materials for the Commission; to issue
quarterly, a list of current members, which list shall include appointment
dates and dates of expiration of office; and to prepare proposed agendas for
the annual, regular and special meetings.
§ 2-1-7: RULES OF PROCEDURE:
   Each Commission shall adopt a set of rules to govern its meetings and
procedures.
§ 2-1-8: MEETINGS:
   A.   Annual Meeting: Each Commission shall have an annual meeting at the
first regular meeting in March of each year, at which time a Vice-Chair shall
be elected, any Committees appointed, and such other business transacted as the
Commission may determine is necessary.
   B.   Regular Meetings: Each Commission shall hold its regular meetings
pursuant to the Official Calendar adopted by the City Council.
   C.   Special Meetings: Each Commission may hold a special meeting at any
time outside of a regular meeting upon three (3) days’ advanced notice and in
compliance with Minnesota Statutes Section 13D.04: (1) at the request of the
Commission’s Chair, (2) at the request of the Council; or (3) at the request of
the Staff Liaison, as approved by the City Administrator.
   D.   Open Meetings: All Commission meetings shall be subject to the Open
Meeting Law.
   E.   Quorum: A quorum shall consist of a majority of the appointed
Commission members at the time of the meeting. When a vacancy exists, the
membership shall be reduced by the vacancy.
§ 2-1-9: POWERS AND DUTIES; ADVISORY CAPACITY:
   Except as may otherwise be provided by this Code, other ordinances or state
statutes, the powers and duties of the Commissions are of an advisory nature
only.
§ 2-1-10: COOPERATION OF CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES:
   All City officials, department heads, employees and appointees shall
cooperate with each Commission and render all reasonable assistance.
§ 2-1-11: COMPENSATION:
   All Commission members shall serve without compensation but may be
reimbursed for expenses incurred in connection with carrying out the duties and
functions of the Commission, if approved by the City Administrator.
CHAPTER 2: ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Section
2-2-1: Statement of Public Policy and Purpose
2-2-2: Advisory Body
2-2-3: Designation of Historic Sites and Landmarks
2-2-4: Maintenance of Records and Documents
2-2-5: Delisting Process
2-2-6: Alterations to Historic Sites or Landmarks
§ 2-2-1: STATEMENT OF PUBLIC POLICY AND PURPOSE:
   The City Council hereby declares as a matter of public policy that the
protection, preservation, perpetuation and use of places, areas, buildings,
structures and other objects having a special historical significance is a
public necessity and in the interest of the community and hereby establishes
the Advisory Committee for Historic Preservation (ACHP). The purpose of this
division is to:
   A.   Safeguard the cultural resources of the City by preserving sites,
structures, districts and landmarks which reflect elements of the City’s
cultural, social, economic, political or architectural history;
   B.   Protect and enhance the City’s attractions to residents and visitors;
   C.   Foster civic pride in the beauty and notable achievements of the past;
and
   D.   Promote the use and preservation of historic sites and landmarks for
the education and general welfare of the people of the City.
§ 2-2-2: ADVISORY BODY:
   A.   All actions of the ACHP shall be in the nature of recommendations to
the City Council and said Committee shall have no final authority with
reference to any matters.
   B.   Qualifications: Membership shall be drawn from persons with
demonstrated interest and/or expertise in historic preservation. A member of
the ACHP is required to be a representative to the Washington County Historical
Society.
§ 2-2-3: DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC SITES AND LANDMARKS:
   A.   Procedures: The City Council, upon the request of the ACHP and with
written permission from the impacted property owner(s), may by resolution,
designate a historic site, landmark, or district. Prior to such designation,
the City Council shall hold a public hearing, notice of which shall be
published at least ten (10) days prior to the date of the hearing. Notice of
the hearing shall also be mailed to all owners of property which is proposed to
be designated as a historic site or landmark, and to all property owners within
five hundred feet (500') of the boundary of the area to be designated. Every
nomination shall be forwarded to the Minnesota Historical Society for review
and comment within sixty (60) days of the Committee’s request.
   B.   Eligibility Criteria: In considering the designation of any area, site,
place, district, building or structure in the City as an historic site or
landmark, the committee shall consider the following factors with respect to
eligibility:
      1.   Its character, interest or value as part of the history or cultural
heritage of the City, the State or the United States;
      2.   Its association with persons or events that have made a significant
contribution to the cultural heritage of the City; and
      3.   Its embodiment of distinguishing characteristics of architectural
type or style, or elements of design, detail materials or craftsmanship.
§ 2-2-4: MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS AND DOCUMENTS:
   A.   The ACHP shall conduct a continuing survey of cultural resources in the
City which the Committee has reason to believe are or will be eligible for
designation as historic sites, landmarks or districts. The Committee shall also
prepare and maintain a comprehensive map and survey.
   B.   Register of Historic Sites and Landmarks: The City shall maintain a
register of historic sites and landmarks.
   C.   Repository for Documents: The office of the Building Official is
designated as the repository for all studies, surveys, reports, programs, and
designations of historic sites and landmarks.
§ 2-2-5: DELISTING PROCESS:
   A.   Procedures: The City Council, upon the request of a property owner of a
parcel of land that contains a structure or feature that is designated as a
historic site or landmark, may by resolution, remove the subject property from
the City’s register of historic sites and landmarks, or from a historic
district. Prior to such action, the request shall be reviewed by the ACHP. The
Committee shall make a recommendation on the issuance of a Certificate of
Appropriateness to the City Council. Prior to approving the resolution
regarding the removal request, the City Council shall hold a public hearing,
notice of which shall have been published in a newspaper of general circulation
at least ten (10) days prior to the date of the hearing; notice of the hearing
shall also be mailed to all property owners within five hundred feet (500') of
the boundary of the area to be designated. Every removal request shall be
forwarded to the Minnesota Historical Society for review and comment within
sixty (60) days of the Committee’s request.
   B.   Review Criteria: In considering the request to remove area, site,
place, district, building, or structure from the local historic register, the
ACHP and the City Council shall consider and balance the following factors and
competing interests with respect to the request for removal:
      1.   Have any conditions related to the property’s character, interest,
or value as part of the history or cultural heritage of the City, the State or
the United States, changed?
      2.   Does the inclusion of the property on the local historic register
have a demonstrable hardship or cause negative impacts in the current property
owner’s ability to manage or market the property?
      3.   Will the property’s association with persons or events that have
made a significant contribution to the cultural heritage of the City be
significantly negatively impacted by the removal from the local historic
register?
      4.   Can the property’s potential to yield information important in
history or prehistory still be obtained, documented, and distributed before and
after the removal of the property from the local historic register?
      5.   Are there other examples on the local historic register or within
the community that have similar distinguishing characteristics of architectural
type or style, or elements of design, detail, materials, or craftsmanship?
§ 2-2-6: ALTERATIONS TO HISTORIC SITES OR LANDMARKS:
   A.   Review and Recommendations Generally. The Advisory Committee for
Historic Preservation (ACHP) shall review and make recommendations to the
Council concerning proposed alterations to an historic site or landmark.
   B.   Conditional Use/Administrative Use/Interim Use Permit. Every
application for a land use permit which may result in the alteration of a
designated historic site or landmark in the City shall be reviewed by the ACHP;
thereafter, the committee shall make a recommendation and may recommend
conditions regarding approval to the Council concerning the proposed permit.
   C.   Other Building Permits. The ACHP shall review and make recommendations
to the Council concerning the issuance of building permits to do any of the
following in a historic district or state designated historic site:
      1.   New construction.
      2.   Remodel.
      3.   Move a building into the City.
      4.   Excavate.
      5.   Demolition.
   D.   Factors Considered. The ACHP, upon receipt of the permit application
and plans, shall determine if the work to be performed adversely affects the
designated historic site, landmark or district. In determining whether or not
there is an adverse effect to the historic site, landmark, or district the
committee shall consider the following factors:
      1.   Whether the work will significantly alter the appearance of the
building or structure so as to remove the features which distinguish the
historic site or landmark as a significant cultural resource.
      2.   Whether the use of the property will destroy, disturb or endanger a
known or suspected archaeological feature site.
   E.   Standards and Guidelines. The Comprehensive Cultural Resource
Management Plan as adopted by the City shall be the authoritative guide to
reviewing permits in relation to designated historic sites and landmarks.
CHAPTER 3: PARKS, RECREATION AND NATURAL RESOURCES COMMISSION
Section
2-3-1: Purpose
2-3-2: Duties
§ 2-3-1: PURPOSE:
   The purpose of the Parks, Recreation and Natural Resources Commission is to
advise the City Council and City staff on matters of development and use of
parks and recreation facilities, leisure services, recreation programming,
preservation of natural resources and promotion of environmental awareness and
conservation.
§ 2-3-2: DUTIES:
   The duties of the Parks, Recreation, and Natural Resources Commission
include, but are not limited to, the following:
   A.   Assisting in the development of ordinances relating to parks,
recreation and natural resources;
   B.   Assisting in the development of sound conservation and land use
management practices;
   C.   Assisting in the preparation of a comprehensive park and open space
plan;
   D.   Assisting in the development of new programs and services that meet the
community’s recreational needs, protect the environment, and enhance the
quality of life in the community while providing for maximum use of resources;
   E.   Reviewing existing City recreation programs and park equipment for
improvements or enhancements;
   F.   Reviewing plans or applications submitted to the City that may affect
any City park or natural resource including park dedication requirements; and
   G.   Assisting with the prioritization and recommendation of capital
improvement projects within the parks and open spaces.
   H.   Comply with all statutory requirements under Minnesota Statutes Section
412.501.
CHAPTER 4: PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
2-4-1: Purpose and Duties
§ 2-4-1: PURPOSE AND DUTIES:
   The Planning Commission is the planning agency of the City designated
pursuant to Minnesota Statutes Section 462.354. The Commission will perform the
duties imposed on it by the zoning and subdivision regulations and the
Minnesota Municipal Planning Act. The Planning Commission shall also act as the
board of appeals and adjustments and shall determine, in harmony with the
general purpose of Title 11 and the Comprehensive Plan, by resolution, all
appeals from any order, requirement, permit or decision made by the Community
Development Director.
TITLE 3: BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL LICENSING
Section
3-1-1: General Rules
3-1-2: Application for License
3-1-3: General Conditions of License
3-1-4: Renewal of License
3-1-5: Persons and Locations Ineligible for a License
3-1-6: License Term
3-1-7: Display of License Certificate
3-1-8: Premises Covered by License
3-1-9: Transfer or Assignment of License
3-1-10: Inspections
3-1-11: License Hearing
§ 3-1-1: GENERAL RULES:
   A.   License Required to Engage in Certain Activities: It is unlawful for
any person to engage in any trade, profession, business or privilege in the
City for which the City Code requires a license without first obtaining
approval for the license from the City in the manner provided in this Chapter.
A license must be obtained from each location at which the licensee conducts
business.
   B.   Activity Conducted Without a License:
      1.   When an activity that requires a license pursuant to the City Code
is conducted without a license or the licensee has not renewed an existing
license prior to its expiration date and the licensed activity continues, the
City may pursue any one (1) or all of the following remedies:
         a.   No new license shall be granted until the applicant pays the late
fee pursuant to Section
3-1-2.A.6.c, unless otherwise approved by the Council;
         b.   The City may issue a criminal citation for operating without a
license; and/or
         c.   The City may post a cease and desist order (“cease and desist
order”) for the licensed activity preventing the business from conducting the
activity until a license is approved.
            (1)   If a business has an existing license for the licensed
activity and the license expires, then the City Clerk shall provide the owner
with twenty (20) days’ calendar notice to cease and desist the activity (“cease
and desist notice”). If no completed application is received by the City Clerk
prior to the expiration of the date given in the cease and desist notice, then
the City shall post a cease and desist order for the activity for which the
license is required.
            (2)   If a new business is conducting an activity for which a
license is required or an existing business is conducting a new activity for
which a license is required and no license has been approved, then the City may
immediately and without notice, post a cease and desist order for the activity
for which a license is required.
      2.   Any business that continues to conduct an activity for which a
license is required without an approved license shall be in violation of this
Chapter.
§ 3-1-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   All applications for licenses, unless specifically provided otherwise,
shall be made to the City Clerk or other authorized City official in writing
upon forms provided by the City. Incomplete applications will be rejected by
the City Clerk and will not be submitted for further review by the City.
      1.   Natural Person: If the applicant is a natural person, the applicant
may be required to provide the following information:
         a.   Full name, place, contact information, and date of birth;
         b.   Street resident addresses of where the applicant has lived during
the past five (5) years and telephone numbers and dates for which such
addresses and phone numbers were used;
         c.   Whether the applicant has ever been known by a name other than
the applicant’s name and, if so, the name or names used, including maiden
names, and information concerning dates and places used;
         d.   The type, name and location of every business or occupation in
which the applicant has been engaged during the preceding five (5) years and
the names and addresses of the applicant’s employers and partners, if any, for
the preceding five (5) years, and corresponding dates of employment;
         e.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony, gross
misdemeanor, misdemeanor, including violations of a municipal ordinance, but
excluding minor traffic violations, directly related to the business for which
the license is sought. If so, the applicant must furnish information as to the
date, time, place of conviction and nature of the offenses;
         f.   A physical description of the applicant;
         g.   The applicant’s current personal financial statement and copies
of the applicant’s federal and state tax returns for the two (2) years prior to
the application;
         h.   The applicant’s social security number; and
         i.   If the applicant does not manage the business, the name of the
managers or other persons in charge of the business and all information
concerning each of them pursuant to subsections A.1.a through A.1.h. above.
      2.   Partnership: If the applicant is a partnership, the applicant may be
required to provide the following information:
         a.   The names, addresses, and contact information of all general and
limited partners and all information concerning each general partner pursuant
to subsections A.1.a through A.1.h. above;
         b.   The names of the managing partners and the interest of each
partner in the licensed business;
         c.   A copy of the partnership agreement;
         d.   The applicant’s federal tax identification number and state
employer identification number; and
         e.   If the applicant does not manage the business, the name of the
managers or other persons in charge of the business and all information
concerning each of them pursuant to subsections A.1.a through A.1.h. above.
      3.   Corporation: If the applicant is a corporation or other
organization, the applicant may be required to provide the following
information:
         a.   The name of the corporation or business and the state of the
incorporation;
         b.   A copy of the articles of incorporation or association agreement
and bylaws. If the applicant is a foreign corporation, a certificate of
authority as required by Minnesota Statutes Section 303.06, must be attached;
         c.   The applicant’s federal tax identification number and state
employer identification number;
         d.   The name of the managers or other persons in charge of the
business and all information concerning each manager, proprietor or agent
pursuant to subsections A.1.a through A.1.h. above; and
         e.   A list of all persons who control or own an interest in excess of
five percent (5%) in the organization or business or who are officers of the
corporation or business and all information concerning those persons pursuant
to subsections A.1.a through A.1.h. above. This provision, however, does not
apply to a corporation whose stock is publicly traded on a stock exchange and
the corporation is applying for a license to be owned or operated by itself.
      4.   Additional Information from all Applicants: All applicants must
provide the following additional information:
         a.   Whether the applicant holds a current license or has ever held a
license from any governmental unit, including the City;
         b.   Whether the applicant has ever had a license in any city or state
denied, revoked or suspended and the reason for the denial, revocation, or
suspension;
         c.   The name of the business, if it is to be conducted under a
designation, name or style other than the name of the applicant and a certified
copy of the certificate as required by Minnesota Statutes Section 333.01;
         d.   The street addresses and telephone numbers of the premises at
which the business will be conducted;
         e.   The exact legal description of the premises to be licensed, if
applicable;
         f.   If the applicant does not own the business premises, a true and
complete copy of the executed lease for the premises, if applicable;
         g.   If the applicant is applying for a personal business license, a
copy of the independent contractor, employment agreement or executed statement
from the business owner that the applicant is authorized to conduct business at
the business premises;
         h.   Whether all real estate and personal property taxes that are due
and payable for the premises have been paid and, if not paid, the years and
amounts that are unpaid;
         i.   A written declaration by the applicant, under penalty of perjury,
that the information contained in the application is true and correct. If the
applicant is a corporation, an officer must sign the written declaration. If
the applicant is a partnership, a general partner must sign the written
declaration. If the applicant is an unincorporated association, the manager or
managing officer must sign the written declaration;
         j.   If the licensed activity requires prior approval from another
government entity, provide evidence of that approval; and
         k.   Any other information the City may require.
      5.   Insurance Coverage: The applicant must file with the City Clerk a
certificate of insurance from an insurance company duly licensed and qualified
to do business in the state, on a form approved by the City.
         a.   Coverage Requirements: The insurance policy must provide
coverages in a minimum of the following amounts, unless otherwise required by
law:
            (1)   Commercial General Liability Insurance, with a limit of one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence and two million dollars
($2,000,000.00) general aggregate;
            (2)   Workers’ Compensation Insurance in accordance with statutory
requirements;
            (3)   Automobile Liability Insurance, with a combined single limit
of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for each accident.
         b.   Coverage Changes and Cancellation: The City of Cottage Grove must
be listed as a certificate holder and be notified of any changes or
cancellations in coverage.
         c.   Application: The insurance coverage requirements of this section
shall apply to all licenses granted by the City, unless specifically stated
otherwise by the City Clerk or their designee.
      6.   License Fees: License fees must be paid before the City will grant
the license.
         a.   Fee Determination: The fees for licenses are established by City
Council resolution.
         b.   Refunds: License fees are not refundable unless approved by the
City Council. In addition, specific license fees for which work was performed,
such as a background investigation, shall not be refunded.
         c.   Late Fees: An applicant who submits a completed application to
renew a license less than sixty (60) days prior to its expiration date, shall
pay a late fee pursuant to the fee schedule, in addition to the license fee.
         d.   Prorated License Fees: In unique circumstances, the City Council
may approve prorating a particular license fee. Unless the Council has approved
prorating the license, license fees will not be prorated for a portion of a
license term, except for the following licenses, payment for which shall only
be for the portion remaining in the license term:
            (1)   On-sale intoxicating liquor;
            (2)   Pawnbroker;
            (3)   Secondhand goods dealer;
            (4)   Tobacco.
         e.   Provisional License Fees: The City Council may require an
additional fee for provisional licenses that is in addition to the regular
license fee, due to the extraordinary monitoring that is required by City
staff. The additional provisional license fee shall be set by the City Council
upon approval of a provisional license; and
         f.   Installment Payments: For on-sale liquor licenses only, the
licensee may pay the license fee in two (2) equal installments, due on or
before December 15 for the upcoming license term and on or before June 15 for
the remainder of the existing license term. An administrative fee will be
imposed for licensees who pay the license fee in installments. Failure to pay
any installment payment when due may result in revocation or suspension of the
license. In addition, late fees, as provided in subsection A.6.c above will be
imposed.
      7.   Change in Information: Any change in the information required by
subdivisions 3-1-2 A.1, A.2, A.3, or A.4 of this section must be reported to
the City Clerk or other authorized official within fourteen (14) days of that
change.
   B.   Background Investigations: After the City has received a completed
application with the required information under Section
3-1-2.A, including all required documentation and appropriate fees, certain
license applications may require a background investigation and submission to
the City Council for approval. In such cases, the following process in this
subsection shall be followed.
      1.   In order to protect the general welfare of the public, certain
license applications may require a personal background and/or a business
background investigation. If so required, the investigations will be conducted
pursuant to this Section, as well as Section
1-6-2 of the City Code. If the applicant simultaneously submits an application
for more than one (1) license and each license requires a personal and/or
business background investigation, the applicant shall only be required to pay
the fee for one (1) personal background investigation and one (1) business
background investigation, if applicable. If the investigation fees for the
various licenses differ, the higher fees shall apply.
         a.   Authorization: At the time of making an initial or renewal
license application that requires a personal or business background
investigation, the applicant must provide written authorization to the City to
investigate all facts set out in the application and to do a personal and/or
business background investigation on the applicant. A criminal background
investigation shall be conducted as part of a personal background
investigation. The information obtained from the investigation shall be used to
assist the Director of Public Safety or their designee in making a
recommendation as to whether the applicant should be granted a license. The
recommendation may be based on any of the following criteria:
            (1)   Whether the applicant was convicted of a crime or offense in
the last five (5) years involving or directly related to the business for which
a license is sought;
            (2)   Whether there is a material misrepresentation in the
application.
         b.   Investigation Fee: All applicants that must undergo a background
investigation must pay an investigation fee with the license application.
Separate fees shall be charged for personal background investigations and
business background investigations. The City Council establishes the
investigation fees by City Council resolution. If the applicant applies for an
additional license within the calendar year, then the applicant shall only be
required to pay the renewal fee.
   C.   Administrative Approval:
      1.   City Staff Approval: If authorized by the City Code, certain
licenses may be administratively approved by City staff.
      2.   If authorized for administrative approval, then within ten (10)
regular business days of receiving a completed license application, the City
Clerk or their designee shall issue the license unless there exist grounds for
denying the license under Section
3-1-11.B.1, in which case the City Clerk shall deny the license application. If
the City Clerk denies the license application, the applicant will be notified
in writing of the decision, the reason for denial, and of the applicant’s right
to appeal pursuant to City Code Section
1-3-4.
§ 3-1-3: GENERAL CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A licensee is responsible for the conduct of their place of business and the
conditions of order in it. The act of an employee of the licensed premises is
deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee is responsible for all
penalties provided by this Chapter equally with the employee.
§ 3-1-4: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   License renewals are issued in the same manner and subject to the same
conditions as a new license application.
   A.   Renewal Date: Licensees must submit their applications for the renewal
of their licenses at least sixty (60) days prior to their expiration. Failure
to submit a renewal application by the expiration date means there is no
guarantee of the license being renewed. Thirty (30) days after its expiration,
the license will be considered terminated.
   B.   Exception: The renewal date application deadline does not apply to
licenses issued for work performed in or on City streets or sidewalks pursuant
to a contract with the City or contractors who do not perform work continuously
in the City, who need only obtain a license prior to commencing any work.
   C.   Continued Operation: If a timely submission of a renewal application is
made by an applicant in good standing, but the City Council does not act upon
the application prior to December 31, then upon written authorization by the
City, the applicant may continue to operate until the City Council considers
the renewal application.
§ 3-1-5: PERSONS AND LOCATIONS INELIGIBLE FOR A LICENSE:
   The City Council may not issue a license to an applicant, if the applicant:
   A.   Is a minor at the time the application is filed; or
   B.   Has been convicted of a felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor
punishable by jail, the crime is directly related to the license sought and the
applicant has not shown by competent evidence of sufficient rehabilitation and
present fitness to perform the duties of the business.
§ 3-1-6: LICENSE TERM:
   A.   Except as stated in subsection B below, the term of the license year
begins on January 1 and ends on December 31 or for the period of time for which
the applicant applied, whichever is shorter. A license shall not be valid
beyond the expiration date therein specified, unless otherwise provided.
   B.   The term of the license year for rental licenses is stated in Section
3-15-8 of the City Code.
§ 3-1-7: DISPLAY OF LICENSE CERTIFICATE:
   A.   Personal Business License: Where the license is a personal business
license and the licensed activity is conducted at various locations or
establishments, the licensee must carry the license on the licensee’s person at
all times when engaged in the activity for which the City granted the license.
   B.   Business License: Where the licensed activity is conducted at fixed
places of business or establishments, the certificate must be exhibited at all
times in a conspicuous place on the premises. The license must be posted in a
conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the business so that it may be
easily read at any time.
   C.   License Display Requests: The licensee must present the license
certificate upon demand of any police officer, authorized representative of the
City or resident.
§ 3-1-8: PREMISES COVERED BY LICENSE:
   Unless otherwise authorized by this Code, the license issued is only
effective for the compact and contiguous space specified in the approved
license application.
§ 3-1-9: TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT OF LICENSE:
   Unless otherwise provided, a license holder shall not transfer or assign a
license to another person or entity. A licensee may not transfer a license to a
new location without the prior authorization of the City or City Council. A
pre-license inspection may be required prior to transfer of a license to a new
location.
§ 3-1-10: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   An applicant or license holder must permit health officials,
representatives of the Police Department, Fire Department, licensing staff and
Building Department to inspect the licensed premises of a business for the
purpose of ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is open and
occupied for business.
   B.   For certain businesses, a pre-license inspection may be required, in
which case, the appropriate City official will make arrangements for an
inspection.
   C.   Pre-license inspections shall be required for the following licenses:
      1.   Sexually oriented businesses;
      2.   Dangerous dogs;
      3.   Intoxicating liquor;
      4.   Massage therapy business;
      5.   Special animal permits;
      6.   Other licenses or permits as required in the City Code.
§ 3-1-11: LICENSE HEARING:
   A.   New or Renewal Application Consideration:
      1.   City Council Action: The City Council must take action on each new
and renewal license application within a reasonable time following receipt of
the recommendation for City staff regarding the application.
      2.   Procedure: At the City Council meeting at which the license
application is considered, any person must be provided an opportunity to be
heard for or against the license. The City Council may then take any of the
following actions:
         a.   Approve the license;
         b.   Deny the license;
         c.   Approve a provisional license;
         d.   Approve the license with reasonable conditions; or
         e.   Continue the license application.
      3.   Provisional License: The City Council may issue a provisional
license or convert a regular license to a provisional license to any existing
business that has generated more than three (3) violations of the City Code or
state statutes within the preceding 12-month period. At the time of approval of
the provisional license, the City Council shall approve a mitigation plan. The
mitigation plan may include adding security measures, improving the exterior of
the property, reducing or changing the hours of operation, holding neighborhood
meetings, or other steps the Council deems appropriate. The license term for a
provisional license shall coincide with the license term of a regular license
for the same activity.
      4.   License with Reasonable Conditions: The City Council may add
reasonable conditions upon approval of a regular license, if deemed
appropriate.
   B.   Denial, Suspension or Revocation:
      1.   Reasons for Denial, Suspension or Revocation. Any license may be
denied, suspended or revoked for one (1) or more of the following reasons:
         a.   The proposed use does not comply with the Zoning Code (Title 11
of City Code);
         b.   The proposed use does not comply with health, building,
maintenance or other provisions of the City Code or state law;
         c.   The applicant has failed to pay all of the appropriate fees
related to the license, or is delinquent on any other City fees;
         d.   The applicant has made fraudulent statements, misrepresentations,
not fully disclosed information or made false statements in the application or
investigation for or in the course of the applicant’s business;
         e.   Conviction of any crime or offense in the previous five (5) years
involving or relating to the business that is licensed or the type of licensed
activity and the applicant or licensee has failed to show competent evidence of
sufficient rehabilitation and present fitness to perform the duties of the
business;
         f.   The licensee has conducted the licensed activity in such a manner
as to constitute a breach of the peace, a menace to the health, safety and
welfare of the public, or a disturbance of the peace or comfort of the
residents of the City, upon recommendation of the Director of Public Safety or
an appropriate City official;
         g.   Expiration or cancellation of any required insurance or failure
to notify the City within a reasonable time of changes in terms of the
insurance or the carriers;
         h.   The licensee has acted in an unauthorized manner or beyond the
scope of the license granted;
         i.   The applicant’s license has been denied, revoked or suspended by
the City, the state or another government entity;
         j.   Failure to allow inspections of the licensed premises, for the
purpose of ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open
for business;
         k.   Failure to continuously comply with all conditions required as
precedent to the approval of the license;
         l.   Real estate or personal property taxes on the business premises
have become delinquent and the property owner and the applicant are the same
person or entity, or have any common ownership between the property owner and
the applicant where they are a different person or entity;
         m.   Violation of any regulation or provision of the City Code or
Zoning Code applicable to the activity for which the license has been granted,
or any regulation or state law that may be applicable;
         n.   The applicant or licensee has been found guilty of professional
misconduct, either criminally or civilly;
         o.   Based on the findings of a background investigation, granting a
license would be a menace to the safety, health, morals and welfare of the
public;
         p.   The licensee has violated a condition of its provisional license;
         q.   The activity has been conducted without a license; or
         r.   Other good cause.
      2.   Temporary Suspension. The City Council or its designee may
temporarily suspend a license when, in its judgment, the public health, safety
and welfare is endangered by the continuance of the licensed activity, pending
a suspension or revocation hearing.
      3.   Suspension or Revocation Hearing: A hearing for consideration of
suspending or revoking a license will be conducted before the City Council or
its designee. At the hearing, the licensee has the right to be represented by
counsel, the right to respond to the charges, the right to present evidence
through witnesses under oath and the right to confront and cross-examine
witnesses under oath.
         a.   Notice:
            (1)   Before holding the suspension or revocation hearing regarding
the license, the city must provide written notice informing the licensee of the
right to a hearing.
            (2)   The notice must provide at least twenty (20) calendar days’
notice of the time and place of the hearing and must state the ground for the
action proposed to be taken.
            (3)   The notice may be served upon the licensee personally or by
leaving the notice at the licensed premises with the person in charge, or by
certified mail to the address on the license application or where the business
activity is conducted.
         b.   Final Decision: Following the hearing, the City Council or its
designee may take any of the following actions:
            (1)   Take no action on the license;
            (2)   Allow the business activity to continue but add reasonable
conditions to the license;
            (3)   Convert the license to a provisional license and approve a
mitigation plan;
            (4)   Suspend the license; or
            (5)   Revoke the license.
         c.   Findings: Any actions taken following a hearing shall be adopted
by resolution with findings and shall be sent to or served upon the licensee.
If the license is suspended, the dates of suspension shall be fixed; if the
license is revoked, the effective date of the revocation shall be fixed. The
decision by the City Council or its designee following a hearing is final.
      4.   Liquor License penalties shall be governed by City Code Section
3-11-13 for notice and hearing requirements.
      5.   If a license is revoked, neither the applicant nor the licensed
premises may obtain a license for a period of six (6) months.
CHAPTER 2: BINGO GAMES AND GAMBLING
Section
3-2-1: Lawful Gambling Permitted
3-2-2: Statutes Incorporated
3-2-3: Definitions
3-2-4: Unauthorized Gambling Prohibited; Exemptions; City Permit
3-2-5: Application and Local Approval of Premises Permits
3-2-6: City Permit and License Applications; Investigations
3-2-7: Expenditures; Designated Trade Area
3-2-8: Conditions for Allowing Premises to be Used for Gambling
3-2-9: Establishments Holding Liquor Licenses
3-2-10: Records and Reporting
§ 3-2-1: LAWFUL GAMBLING PERMITTED:
   No person or organization may conduct gambling activities in the City except
when those activities are lawful gambling that is licensed or exempt from
licensing pursuant to the provisions of Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 349. Lawful
gambling is the operation, conduct or sale of bingo, raffles, paddlewheels, tip
boards, and pull-tabs. Lawful gambling conducted pursuant to Minnesota Statutes
Sections 349.11 to 349.23, and Minnesota Statutes Sections 609.75 to 609.763,
is authorized within the City and shall be operated in accordance with the
terms and conditions specified in this Chapter, other applicable provisions of
the City Code, and State and federal laws and regulations.
§ 3-2-2: STATUTES INCORPORATED:
   The provisions of Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 349, with reference to the
definition of terms, conditions of operation, provisions relating to sales, and
all other matters pertaining to lawful gambling, are hereby adopted by
reference, and are made a part of this Chapter as if set out in full.
§ 3-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   CLUB: An incorporated organization organized under the laws of the State for
civic, fraternal, social or business purposes, for intellectual improvement or
for the promotion of sports or congressionally charted veterans’ organization
which has been in existence for at least three (3) years, and which has more
than fifty (50) members, has owned or rented a building or space in a building
for more than one (1) year that is suitable and adequate for the accommodation
of its members and is directed by a board of directors, executive committee or
other similar body chosen by the members at a meeting held for that purpose,
none of whose members, officers, agents or employees receive any profit from
the distribution or sale of beverages to the members of the club or their
guests, beyond a reasonable salary or wages fixed and voted each year by the
governing body.
   ORGANIZATION: Any fraternal, religious, veterans’ or other nonprofit group
which has at least fifteen (15) active members and has been in existence for
the most recent three (3) years preceding the license application as a
registered Minnesota nonprofit corporation or as an organization designated as
exempt from the payment of income taxes by the Internal Revenue Code. In
addition, the organization must not be in existence solely for the purpose of
conducting gambling.
   ORGANIZATIONAL LICENSE: A license for lawful gambling issued by the State of
Minnesota Gambling Control Board.
   PREMISES PERMIT: A permit issued to a licensed organization for the purpose
of lawful gambling at a specific site within the City of Cottage Grove.
§ 3-2-4: UNAUTHORIZED GAMBLING PROHIBITED; EXEMPTIONS; CITY PERMIT:
   A.   No person or organization shall conduct lawful gambling excluded or
exempted from State licensure requirements by Minnesota Statutes Section
349.166, without a valid permit from the City. These gambling activities
include:
      1.   Bingo conducted in connection with a civic celebration and is not
conducted for more than twelve (12) consecutive days in a calendar year. A
“civic celebration” is an event which celebrates a recognized national holiday
or occasion celebrating an event proclaimed by the City Council.
      2.   Bingo conducted by an organization which conducts four (4) or fewer
bingo occasions in a calendar year.
      3.   Bingo conducted within a nursing home, senior citizen housing
project or by a senior citizen organization if the prizes for a single game do
not exceed ten dollars ($10.00), total prizes awarded at a single occasion do
not exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00), only members of the organization or
residents and their guests of the nursing home or housing project are allowed
to play in the bingo game, no compensation is paid for persons conducting the
bingo, and a manager is appointed to supervise the bingo.
      4.   Raffles conducted by an organization, and if the value of all raffle
prizes awarded in a calendar year does not exceed one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500.00), or if the raffle is conducted by a 501(c)(3) organization,
if the value of all raffle prizes awarded by the organization at one (1) event
in a calendar year does not exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
      5.   Lawful gambling may be conducted if the organization conducts
gambling on five (5) or fewer days in a calendar year and does not award more
than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) in prizes.
§ 3-2-5: APPLICATION AND LOCAL APPROVAL OF PREMISES PERMITS:
   A.   Application: Any organization seeking to obtain a premises permit from
the Board shall file with the City Clerk an executed, complete duplicate
application, together with all exhibits and documents accompanying the
application as they will be filed with the Board. The records and reports shall
be due at the same time they are due to the Board. The applicant shall
cooperate fully with the City in supplying the information required in this
Section.
   B.   Organizations applying for a state-issued premises permit shall pay the
City an investigation fee at the same time the application is submitted to the
City. This fee shall be refunded if the application is withdrawn before the
investigation is commenced. If approved by the City Council and the Board, a
licensed organization will be responsible for an annual investigation fee for
conducting lawful gambling within the City.
   C.   Approval of Premises Permits:
      1.   Upon receipt of an application for issuance of a premises permit,
the City Clerk shall transmit the application to the Director of Public Safety
for review and recommendation. The Director of Public Safety shall investigate
the matter and shall conduct the review and make a recommendation to the City
Council as soon as possible, but in no event later than forty-five (45) days
following receipt of the notification by the City.
      2.   The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date on which the
City Council will consider the recommendation.
      3.   The City Council shall receive the Director of Public Safety’s
report and consider the application within forty-five (45) days of the date the
application was submitted to the City Clerk.
      4.   The City Council shall by resolution approve or deny the application
within sixty (60) days of receipt of the application.
   D.   Denial of Premises Permits: The City Council shall deny an application
for issuance or renewal of a premises permit for any of the following reasons:
      1.   Violation by the organization of any State Statute, State rule, or
City ordinance relating to gambling, morals or decency within the last three
(3) years.
      2.   Violation by an on-sale establishment or organization leasing its
premises for gambling of any State Statute, State rule, or City ordinance
relating to the operation of the establishment, including, but not limited to,
laws relating to alcoholic beverages, gambling, controlled substances,
suppression of vice, and protection of public safety within the last three (3)
years.
      3.   The leased premises does not comply with applicable zoning,
building, fire, and health codes of the City or other such regulations in this
Section.
      4.   Failure of the applicant to pay the investigation fee provided under
this Section within the prescribed time period.
      5.   Operation of gambling at the site would be detrimental to the
health, safety, and welfare of the community.
   E.   Number of Premises Permits: No more than one (1) premises permit shall
be issued for any location in the City.
§ 3-2-6: CITY PERMIT AND LICENSE APPLICATIONS; INVESTIGATIONS:
   A.   Application For Local Permit:
      1.   No organization shall conduct lawful gambling excluded or exempted
from state licensure requirements without a valid local permit issued by the
City. This Section shall not apply to lawful gambling exempted from local
regulation as outlined in Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 349, and this Chapter. In
addition to any information required under City Code Section
3-1-2, the application shall contain the following information:
         a.   Address and dates of birth of officers and persons accounting for
receipts, expenses and profits for the event.
         b.   List of employees conducting lawful gambling, duties and
relationship to organization.
         c.   Name, address, telephone number and photograph of the gambling
manager.
         d.   Documentation that the gambling manager has complied with the
requirements of Minnesota Statutes Section 349.167.
         e.   Dates, hours and locations of intended gambling for which permit
is requested.
         f.   Address of premises on which event will occur and a sketch of the
premises showing the location of the lawful gambling.
         g.   A copy of any rental or leasing arrangement connected with the
event, including rent to be charged to the organization, and all other services
to be provided, to ensure compliance with Minnesota Statutes Section 349.18.
         h.   Estimated value of prizes to be awarded.
         i.   Specific documentation regarding tax exempt number, or other
proof of nonprofit status, if applicable.
      2.   All organizations which are exempt from the State licensing
requirements under Minnesota Statutes Section 349.166 and apply for a permit to
conduct lawful gambling in the City shall pay a fee for a local permit. The fee
shall be submitted with the application for a local permit. This fee shall be
refunded if the application is withdrawn before the investigation is commenced.
   B.   Approval of Local Permit:
      1.   Upon receipt of an application for issuance or renewal of a local
permit, the City Clerk shall transmit the notification to the Director of
Public Safety, or their designee, for review and recommendation. The Director
of Public Safety shall investigate the matter and make a recommendation to the
City Council as soon as possible, but in no event later than forty-five (45)
days following receipt of the notification by the City Clerk.
      2.   The investigation shall include, but is not limited to, a criminal
history records check and background investigation conducted pursuant to City
Code Sections
1-6-2 and
3-1-2.B. The City Council may order additional investigation as they may deem
necessary.
      3.   The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date on which the
City Council will consider the application.
      4.   The City Council shall receive the Director of Public Safety’s
recommendation and consider the application within forty-five (45) days of the
date the application was submitted to the City Clerk.
§ 3-2-7: EXPENDITURES; DESIGNATED TRADE AREA:
   A.   Any organization licensed to conduct lawful gambling within the City
must expend at least fifty percent (50%) of its lawful purpose expenditures of
gross profits that the organization derives from lawful gambling conducted
within the trade area as defined by this subsection on lawful purposes
conducted or located within the City or any municipality contiguous to the
City. The trade area includes the cities of Cottage Grove, Afton, Hastings,
Inver Grove Heights, Newport, Rosemount, Saint Paul Park and Woodbury and the
townships of Denmark, Grey Cloud Island and Nininger.
   B.   Annually, each organization must file with the City a report prepared
by an independent certified public accountant documenting compliance with this
Section. In addition, each organization must submit a report to the City each
January listing all lawful purpose expenditures from January 1 through December
31 of the preceding year. The report shall identify the name of the entity to
whom the check was written, the city location of the recipient and the amount
of the donation.
   C.   This Section applies only to lawful purpose expenditures of gross
profits derived from gambling conducted at a premises within the City’s
jurisdiction.
§ 3-2-8: CONDITIONS FOR ALLOWING PREMISES TO BE USED FOR GAMBLING:
   A.   Gambling Permitted by Certain Bodies: No person, organization or
business entity shall suffer or permit any gaming table, faro board or gambling
equipment to be set up or used for the purpose of gambling in any house, lot,
yard or garden owned, occupied or controlled by such person, organization or
business entity, except for those organizations licensed pursuant to Minnesota
Statutes, Chapter 349, and issued permits pursuant to this Chapter, unless such
person, organization or business entity is a lessor of the premises leased to
an organization issued such license or permit for lawful gambling.
   B.   Construction, Maintenance and Control of Gambling Operation: An
organization conducting lawful gambling shall have exclusive control over all
gambling equipment, money and records. Whenever the organization is not
present, all gambling devices, money, and records shall be securely locked and
shall be inaccessible to employees and patrons.
§ 3-2-9: ESTABLISHMENTS HOLDING LIQUOR LICENSES:
   A.   If lawful gambling is to take place pursuant to a lease on the premises
of an establishment holding a liquor license, the gambling license holder must:
      1.   Be a nonprofit organization; or
      2.   Have a club liquor license.
   B.   No licensed liquor establishment shall keep, possess, operate or permit
the keeping, possession or operation of any video games of chance, or gambling
device including slot machines, roulette wheels, punchboards and pinball
machines which return coins or slugs, chips, or tokens of any kind which are
redeemable for merchandize, cash or other items of value on the licensed
premises. Social skill games and social dice games are permitted only if they
satisfy all the requirements of State law.
   C.   The liquor licensee may permit lawful gambling on the licensed premises
when such activity is licensed by the Board pursuant to Minnesota Statutes,
Chapter 349 and is conducted pursuant to the regulations contained in this
Code. No other forms of gambling shall be permitted on premises licensed for
the sale of alcoholic beverages.
§ 3-2-10: RECORDS AND REPORTING:
   A.   Organizations conducting lawful gambling shall file with the City Clerk
one (1) copy of all records and reports required to be filed with the Board,
pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 349. The records and reports shall be
filed on or before the day they are required to be filed with the Board.
   B.    Organizations licensed by the Board shall file a report with the City
providing compliance with the trade area spending requirements imposed in this
Chapter. Such report shall be made on a form prescribed by the City and shall
be submitted annually.
CHAPTER 3: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
3-3-1: Purpose
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: Exceptions to Definitions
3-3-4: Licensing; Exemptions
3-3-5: License Denial
3-3-6: License Revocation
3-3-7: Registration
3-3-8: Prohibited Activities
3-3-9: Exclusion by Placard
§ 3-3-1: PURPOSE:
   The City has the authority under its police power to prevent public
nuisances and public safety hazards created by the unique business practices of
peddlers, solicitors, and transient merchants. In order to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the community, it is the purpose and intent of this
section to establish regulations relating to peddlers, solicitors, and
transient merchants as specifically authorized by Minnesota Statutes Sections
329.15, 412.221, subdivision 19, and 437.02.
§ 3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   NONCOMMERCIAL ADVOCATE: A person disseminating religious, political, social,
or other ideological beliefs, or exercising their State or Federal
constitutional rights, and who may also attempt to solicit donations. The term
noncommercial advocate shall also include canvassing and pamphleteering
intended for noncommercial purposes.
   PEDDLER: A person who goes from place-to-place for the purpose of offering
for sale, displaying for sale, selling or attempting to sell goods, wares,
products, merchandise, personal property or services for which delivery or
performance occurs immediately.
   PERSON: Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership, or similar association. As applied to groups, organizations,
corporations, partnerships and associations, the term shall include each
member, officer, partner, associate, agent, or employee.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY: Any day when City Hall is open for conducting public
business.
   SOLICITOR: A person who goes from place-to-place for the purpose of
obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares, products,
merchandize, personal property or services for which delivery or performance
occurs at a later time.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT: A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, or other portable shelter, or stationary
location for the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering goods, wares, products, merchandise,
personal property or services.
§ 3-3-3: EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS:
   For the purpose of this Chapter, the terms “peddler”, “solicitor”, and
“transient merchant” shall not apply, and no license or registration shall be
required for the following, unless otherwise indicated below:
   A.   Any person selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods, wares,
products, merchandise, or other personal property to a retail seller of that
product.
   B.   Any person making deliveries on an established delivery route.
   C.   Any person making deliveries of publications to the community at large.
   D.   Any person conducting the type of sale commonly known as garage sales,
rummage sales, or estate sales.
   E.   Any person conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer.
   F.   Any officer of the court conducting a court ordered sale.
   Exemption from these definitions shall not, for the scope of this Chapter,
excuse any person from complying with any other applicable statutory provisions
or requirements provided in the City Code.
§ 3-3-4: LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   County License Required: No person shall conduct business as a peddler,
solicitor, or transient merchant within City limits without first obtaining the
appropriate license from the county, if the county issues a license for the
activity, as may be required by Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 329.
   B.   City License Required: Except as provided for by this Chapter, no
person shall conduct business within this jurisdiction as a peddler or
transient merchant without first obtaining a City license. Solicitors need not
be licensed, but are required to register with the City pursuant to Section
3-3-7 of this Chapter. Except as required herein, all license applications are
subject to the provisions of Title 3, Chapter 1.
   C.   Application: An application for a City license to conduct business as a
peddler or transient merchant shall be made on a form available from the office
of the City Clerk and at least fourteen (14) days before the applicant desires
to begin conducting a business operation within the City. All applications
shall be signed by the applicant or authorized representative and shall include
the requisite information under Section
3-1-2 of the City Code and any of the following information:
      1.   The dates the applicant intends to conduct business.
      2.   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided.
      3.   List of the three (3) most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant.
      4.   Proof of any required County license.
      5.   Any additional information as may be deemed necessary by the City.
   D.   Procedure: Upon receipt of the application and payment of the license
fee, the City Clerk will determine if the application is complete. An
application will be considered complete if all required information is
provided. If the City Clerk determines that the application is incomplete, the
City Clerk must inform the applicant of the information that is missing. If the
application is complete, the City Clerk must order an investigation, including
background checks, to verify the information provided with the application
pursuant to City Code Section
3-1-2.B. The City Clerk must issue the license unless grounds exist for denying
the license. If the City Clerk denies the license application, the applicant
must be notified in writing of the decision, the reason for denial, and the
applicant’s right to appeal pursuant to City Code Section
1-3-4.
   E.   Duration: A license granted under this Chapter to a peddler shall be
valid for the remainder of the calendar year from the date of issuance unless a
shorter period of time is requested. A license granted under this Chapter to a
transient merchant shall be valid for a maximum of fourteen (14) consecutive
days unless a shorter period of time is requested; no more than one (1)
transient merchant license may be issued to any applicant or for any business
location in a calendar year.
   F.   License Exemptions:
      1.   No license shall be required for a noncommercial advocate. This
exemption will not apply if those activities falling under the definition of a
“noncommercial advocate” are merely incidental to what would properly be
considered a commercial activity.
      2.   No license shall be required for any child under the age of eighteen
(18) attempting to sell products or services when the child represents a
school, church, or other civic organization to which they belong.
      3.   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempting to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated, or raised on any farm or garden occupied and cultivated by
themselves.
      4.   No license shall be required for a transient merchant whose activity
is regulated under an interim conditional use permit from the City or whose
activity is a permitted use in a commercial zoning district.
      5.   No license shall be required for any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door or any other type of place-to-place movement for the
primary purpose of exercising that person’s State or Federal constitutional
rights such as the freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of
religion, and the like. This exemption will not apply if the person’s exercise
of their constitutional rights is merely incidental to what would properly be
considered a commercial activity.
      6.   A mobile food unit as defined in City Code Section
3-12-2 shall not be required to obtain a license as a transient merchant under
this Chapter. All mobile food units must comply with Title 3, Chapter 12 of the
City Code in order to operate within the City.
§ 3-3-5: LICENSE DENIAL:
   A.   In addition to the grounds for denial stated in City Code Section
3-1-11.B, the following shall be grounds for denying a peddler or transient
merchant license:
      1.   Conviction for any crime of violence as defined by Minnesota
Statutes Section 624.712. Convictions by individuals proposing to operate under
the license are grounds for denial of the individuals.
      2.   Conviction within the past five (5) years of the date of application
for violation of any Federal or State statute or regulation, or of any local
ordinance, which adversely reflects upon the applicant’s ability to conduct the
business in a professional, honest, and legal manner. Such violations shall
include, but are not limited to, burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud,
unlawful business practices, and any form of actual or threatened physical harm
against another person. Violations by individuals proposing to operate under
the license are grounds for denial of the individuals.
      3.   The revocation within the past five (5) years of the date of
application of any license or registration issued to an applicant for the
purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant.
Revocations of licenses or registrations to individuals proposing to operate
under the license are grounds for denial of the individuals.
      4.   Evidence of a bad business reputation, including, but not limited
to, the existence of substantial complaints filed against an applicant with the
City of Cottage Grove or other municipalities, the Better Business Bureau, the
office of the Minnesota Attorney General or other State Attorney General’s
office, or other similar business or consumer rights office or agency, within
the preceding five (5) years.
§ 3-3-6: LICENSE REVOCATION:
   A.   In addition to the grounds for revocation stated in City Code Section
3-1-11.B, the following shall be grounds for revoking a peddler or transient
merchant license:
      1.   Subsequent knowledge by the City of fraud, misrepresentation or
false statements provided by an applicant on the application form.
      2.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity.
      3.   Subsequent violation to which the granting of the license could have
been denied under Section
3-3-5 of this Chapter.
      4.   Engaging in any prohibited activity or violation of any provision of
this Chapter.
   B.   If the City Clerk revokes the license, the licensee shall be notified
in writing of the decision, the reason for revocation and the licensee’s right
to appear at the hearing regarding the revocation as outlined in City Code
Section
3-1-11.B.
§ 3-3-7: REGISTRATION:
   Solicitors shall be required to register with the City prior to engaging in
business activities. All aspects of registration shall follow the licensing
provisions of this Chapter for a peddler, except no fee is required.
§ 3-3-8: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
   No peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, or non-commercial advocate shall
conduct business in the following manner:
   A.   Calling attention by means of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any
bell, crying out, or by any other noise, so as to be unreasonably audible.
   B.   Obstructing the free flow of traffic, either vehicular or pedestrian,
on any street, sidewalk, alleyway, or other public right-of-way.
   C.   Conducting business in a way so as to create a threat to the health,
safety, and welfare of any individual or the general public.
   D.   Conducting business before ten o’clock (10:00) A.M. or after eight
o’clock (8:00) P.M.
   E.   Failing to provide proof of license, registration, or identification
when requested.
   F.   Using the license or registration of another person.
   G.   Alleging false or misleading statements about the products or services
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No person shall claim
to have the endorsement of the City based on the City having issued a license
or registration to that person.
   H.   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave.
   I.   Otherwise operating in any manner that a reasonable person would find
obscene, threatening, intimidating or abusive.
§ 3-3-9: EXCLUSION BY PLACARD:
   A.   Unless specifically invited by the property owner or tenant, no
peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial advocate, or other
person engaged in other similar activities shall enter onto the property of
another for the purpose of conducting business when the property is marked with
a sign or placard:
      1.   Situated in a location clearly visible at the primary entrance to
the structure;
      2.   Of sufficient size and with sufficient lettering to be clearly
legible;
      3.   Stating “No Peddlers or Solicitors”, “Peddlers and Solicitors
Prohibited”, or other comparable statement.
   B.   No person other than the property owner or tenant shall remove, deface,
or otherwise tamper with any sign or placard under this Section.
CHAPTER 4: PAWNBROKERS AND SECONDHAND GOODS DEALERS
Section
3-4-1: Purpose
3-4-2: Definitions
3-4-3: Licensing Requirements
3-4-4: Bond Required
3-4-5: Ineligibility for License
3-4-6: Records and Reports
3-4-7: Inspection of Premises
3-4-8: Business Transactions; Requirements and Restrictions
3-4-9: Denial, Suspension or Revocation of License
§ 3-4-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The City Council finds that pawnbrokers and certain secondhand goods
dealers potentially provide an opportunity for the commission and concealment
of crimes because these businesses have the ability to receive and transfer
stolen property quickly and easily. The City Council also finds that consumer
protection regulation is warranted in transactions involving these businesses.
The purpose of this Chapter is to prevent pawnbroker and secondhand goods
dealers from being used as facilities for the disposition of illegally-obtained
property, to aid in the identification of individuals involved in criminal
activities through the timely collection and sharing of transaction
information, and to ensure that the businesses comply with basic consumer
protection standards, thereby protecting the public health, safety, and general
welfare of the citizens of the City.
   B.   To help the Police Department better regulate current and future
pawnbroker and secondhand goods businesses, decrease and stabilize costs
associated with the regulation of the pawnbroker and secondhand goods
industries, and increase identification of criminal activities in the
pawnbroker and secondhand goods industries through the timely collection and
sharing of pawnbroker and secondhand goods dealer transaction information, this
Chapter also implements and establishes the required use of an Automated Pawn
System (“APS”), as approved by the Police Department.
§ 3-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   AUTOMATED PAWN SYSTEM OR APS: A computer database operated by the
Minneapolis Police Department, accessible from a remote location, designated to
input and retrieve data on pawnbroker transactions, by those municipalities
that subscribe to the system.
   CONSIGNMENT: A written agreement between a dealer and a seller that
authorizes the dealer to take possession of secondhand property owned by the
seller.
   PAWN TRANSACTION: Any loan on the security of pledged goods or any purchase
of pledged goods on the condition that the pledged goods are left with the
pawnbroker and may be redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed price
within a fixed period of time.
   PAWNBROKER:
   A.   Any person engaged in whole or in part in the business of lending money
on the security of pledged goods left in pawn, or in the business of purchasing
tangible personal property to be left in pawn on the condition that it may be
redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period
of time.
   B.   The following are exempt from the definition of “pawnbroker”: any bank
regulated by the State of Minnesota, the comptroller of the currency of the
United States, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or any other federal or state
authority and their affiliates; any bank or savings association whose deposits
or accounts are eligible for insurance by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation or any successor to it and all affiliates of those banks and
savings associations; any state or federally chartered credit union; and any
industrial loan and thrift company or regulated lender subject to licensing and
regulation by the Department of Commerce.
   PAWNSHOP: The location at which or premises in which a pawnbroker regularly
conducts business.
   PERSON: An individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company,
joint venture, trust, association, or any other legal entity, however
organized.
   PLEDGED GOODS: Tangible personal property other than choses in action,
securities, bank drafts, or printed evidence of indebtedness that are purchased
by, deposited with, or otherwise actually delivered into the possession of a
pawnbroker in connection with a pawn transaction.
   REPORTABLE TRANSACTION: Every transaction conducted by a pawnbroker in which
merchandise is received through a pawn, purchase, consignment, or trade, or in
which a pawn is renewed, extended or redeemed, or for which a unique
transaction number or identifier is generated by their point-of-sale software,
or an item is confiscated by law enforcement, is reportable, except:
   A.   The bulk purchase or consignment of new or used merchandise from a
merchant, manufacturer, or wholesaler having an established permanent place of
business, and the retail sale of said merchandise, provided the pawnbroker must
maintain a record of such purchase or consignment which describes each item,
and must mark each item in a manner which relates it to that transaction
record.
   B.   Retail and wholesale sales of merchandise originally received by pawn
or purchase, and for which all applicable hold and/or redemption periods have
expired.
   SECONDHAND GOODS DEALER: Any person whose regular business includes buying,
selling or receiving tangible personal property which has been previously used,
rented, owned or leased, specifically including, but not limited to, video
games, compact discs, sports memorabilia, collectible magazines, and coin
collections, but excluding motor vehicles, furniture, clothing, and sporting
equipment.
§ 3-4-3: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required; Fee: No person shall engage in the business of
pawnbroker or secondhand goods dealer within the City unless such person is
licensed under this Chapter. The City license must be obtained and payment of
the annual fee for such license must be made pursuant to Title 3, Chapter 1 of
the City Code. Any pawn transaction made without benefit of a license is void.
   B.   Payment of Fee; Proration: The license fee shall be paid in full before
issuance of the license, but may be prorated in accordance with City Code
Section
3-1-2.A.6.d.
   C.   Nontransferability of License: A license issued under this Chapter
shall authorize the licensee to carry on its business only at the permanent
place of business designated in the license. No license may be transferred to a
different location or to a different person in accordance with City Code
Section
3-1-9.
   D.   Information Regarding Buildings: Any and all property or buildings used
for storage of items related to the pawnshop or secondhand goods dealership
must be identified in the application for a license. Failure to provide such
information may result in denial, suspension, or revocation of a license
pursuant to City Code Section
3-1-11.B.
   E.   Pawnbrokers as Secondhand Goods Dealers; Secondhand Goods Dealers as
Pawnbrokers: A pawnbroker may not operate or engage in the business of
secondhand goods dealer without having obtained a secondhand goods dealer
license in addition to a pawnbroker’s license. A secondhand goods dealer may
not conduct, operate, or engage in the business of pawnbroker without having
first obtained a pawnbroker license in addition to a secondhand goods dealer
license.
   F.   Exemptions from License Requirements: The licensing requirements for
pawnbrokers and secondhand goods dealers do not apply to the following:
      1.   The sale of secondhand goods at events commonly known as “garage
sales”, “yard sales” or “estate sales”, where all of the following conditions
are present:
         a.   The sale is held on property occupied as a dwelling by the
seller, or owned, rented or leased by a charitable or political organization;
         b.   The sale does not exceed a period of seventy-two (72) consecutive
hours;
         c.   Not more than two (2) sales are held either by the same person or
on the same property in any twelve (12) month period; and
         d.   None of the items offered for sale have been purchased for resale
or received on consignment for purpose of resale.
      2.   Any person engaged in the business of dealing in secondhand motor
vehicles or secondhand parts for motor vehicles.
      3.   The sale of goods at an auction held by a licensed auctioneer.
      4.   The business of buying or selling only those secondhand goods taken
as part or full payment for new goods, and where such business is incidental to
and not the primary business of a person.
      5.   A bulk sale of property from a merchant, manufacturer, or wholesaler
having an established place of business or of goods sold at open sale from
bankrupt stock.
      6.   Goods sold at a public market.
      7.   Goods sold at an exhibition.
      8.   The sale of furniture, clothing and related accessories.
   G.   Multiple Secondhand Goods Dealer Licenses:
      1.   The owner of a business at which two (2) or more secondhand goods
dealers are engaged in business by maintaining separate sales space and
identifying themselves to the public as individual dealers may obtain a
multiple secondhand goods dealer license for that location. A multiple
secondhand goods dealer license may not be issued unless the following
requirements are met:
         a.   The businesses must have a single name and address.
         b.   The businesses must operate in a compact and contiguous space.
         c.   The businesses must be under the unified control and supervision
of the one (1) person who holds the license.
         d.   Sales must be consummated at a central point or register operated
by the owner of the business, and the owner must maintain a comprehensive
account of all sales.
         e.   The full name, date of birth and address of all dealers must be
disclosed at least ten (10) days prior to conducting business at the time of
original application and renewal.
      2.   The holder of a secondhand goods dealer license under this Section
for a business with more than one (1) dealer at the same location must comply
with all of the requirements of this Chapter, including the responsibility for
police reporting and record keeping, in the same manner as any other dealer
licensed under this Chapter. A dealer licensed under this subsection is
responsible to its customers for stolen or misrepresented goods sold at its
place of business in the same manner as any other dealer licensed under this
Chapter.
§ 3-4-4: BOND REQUIRED:
   Each application for a pawnbroker license shall be accompanied by a bond in
the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) executed by a corporation
authorized to do business in this State and conditioned that in conducting such
business the licensee will observe all laws in relation to pawnbrokers and will
conduct business in conformity thereto, and that the licensee will account for
and deliver to any person legally entitled any goods which have come into the
licensee’s possession through the licensee’s business as a pawnbroker, or in
lieu thereof, will pay the reasonable value in money to the person. Such bond
shall be maintained so long as the pawnbroker does business and shall be for
the benefit of the City or any person who shall suffer any damage through the
act of such pawnbroker and shall not be terminable without the bond company
giving written notice thirty (30) days in advance of termination to the City
Clerk.
§ 3-4-5: INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
   Persons or Locations Ineligible: In addition to the grounds enumerated in
City Code Section
3-1-5, no license under this Chapter will be issued to an applicant if:
   A.   The applicant general partner, managing partner of a partnership, or
manager, proprietor or agent in charge of a business or a corporation holds an
intoxicating liquor license under City Code Title 3, Chapter 11.
   B.   The premises for a pawnbroker is located within three hundred feet
(300') of a school or church as measured in a straight line without regard to
intervening structures or objects from the lot on which the establishment to be
licensed is located to the nearest point of the lot on which the school or
church is located.
§ 3-4-6: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
   A.   Receipt of Sale: Every pawnbroker or secondhand goods dealer purchasing
or receiving on deposit for a loan any article of personal property shall give
to the person selling or depositing such article a plain written or printed
ticket or receipt for the article sold or deposited, showing the terms of such
sale or loan.
   B.   Records Required: At the time of any reportable transaction other than
renewals, extensions, or redemptions, every licensee must immediately record,
in English, the following information by using ink or other indelible medium on
forms or in a computerized record approved by the Director of Public Safety or
their designee. The records so kept shall include the following information
about each transaction:
      1.   Description: A complete and accurate description of each item
including, but not limited to, any trademark, identification number, serial
number, model number, brand name, or other identifying mark on such an item.
      2.   Price: The purchase price, amount of money loaned upon, asking price
if consigned, or value attributed to item if accepted in trade, for each item
received.
      3.   Receipt Date and Transaction Identifier: Date and time the item of
property was received by the licensee, and the unique alpha and/or numeric
transaction identifier that distinguishes it from all other transactions in the
licensee’s records.
      4.   Description of Seller/Pledger: Full name, residence address,
residence telephone number, date of birth and accurate physical description of
the person from whom the item of property was received, including: sex, height,
weight, race, color of eyes, and color of hair.
      5.   Maturity Date and Amount Due: For pawnbroker, the maturity date of
the transaction and the amount due, including monthly and annual interest
rates, all pawn fees and charges and the last regular date of business by which
the item must be redeemed by the pledgor without risk that the item will be
sold, and the amount necessary to redeem the pawned item on that date.
      6.   Identification Documents of Seller/Pledger: The identification
number and state of issue from any of the following forms of identification
presented by the seller or pledger:
         a.   Current valid Minnesota driver’s license;
         b.   Current valid Minnesota identification card; or
         c.   Current valid photo identification card issued by another state
or a province of Canada and one (1) other form of identification.
      7.   Signature: The signature of the person pledging or selling the item
along with the signature or unique identifier of the licensee or employee that
conducted the transaction.
      8.   Photographic Records: The licensee must also take a color photograph
or color video recording which meets acceptable video standards as established
by the Public Safety Director or their designee of:
         a.   Every customer involved in a “reportable transaction” as defined
in this Chapter; and
         b.   Every item that does not have a unique serial or identification
number permanently engraved or affixed.
            If a photograph is taken, it must be done in a format that will
produce a picture at least two inches (2") in length by two inches (2") in
width and must be maintained in such a manner that the photograph, if the film
is developed, or frame, if the film is exposed but not developed, can be
readily matched and correlated with all other records of the transaction to
which it relates. Such photographs or the undeveloped film containing them,
must be available to the Public Safety Director, or their designee, upon
request. The major portion of the photograph must include an identifiable front
facial close up of the person who sold, consigned, traded or pawned the item.
Items photographed must be accurately depicted.
            The licensee must inform the person that they are being
photographed by displaying a sign of sufficient size in a conspicuous place on
the premises.
            If a video photograph is taken, the video camera must zoom in on
the person selling or pawning the item so as to include an identifiable close
up of that person’s face. Items photographed by video must be accurately
depicted. Video photographs must be electronically referenced by time and date
so they can be readily matched and correlated with all other records of the
transaction to which they relate. The licensee must inform the person that they
are being videotaped orally and by displaying a sign of sufficient size in a
conspicuous place on the premises. The licensee must keep the exposed videotape
for three (3) months from the date of the transaction.
      9.   Digital Images: Licensees may fulfill the color photograph
requirements in subsection
3-4-6.B.8 of this Section by generating them as digital images, in a format
specified by the Public Safety Director, or their designee, electronically
cross referenced to the reportable transaction the images are associated with.
The licensee must keep the digital images on the premises available for
inspection for ninety (90) days. Notwithstanding that digital images may be
captured from video recordings, this provision does not alter or amend the
requirements in subsection
3-4-6.B.8 of this Section.
      10.   Records for Renewal, Extension and Redemption: For renewals,
extensions and redemptions, the licensee shall provide the original transaction
identifier, the date of the current transaction, and the type of transaction.
      11.   Inspection of Records: The records must at all reasonable times be
open to inspection by the Public Safety Director, or their designee. Records of
all transactions shall be retained for at least three (3) years from the date
of transaction. Entries of digital images, when implemented, shall be retained
a minimum of ninety (90) days.
   C.   Reports Required:
      1.   Pawnbroker: Upon connection to a multiple jurisdiction computerized/
automated pawn data reporting system by the police division, a pawnbroker
licensee shall submit all information required for pawnbroker transaction
records via computerized transmission in accordance with the standards and
procedures established by the Director of Public Safety. All required
transactions record data shall be transmitted at the close of each business
day. Upon connection to APS, the licensee need not adhere to the written
submission requirements unless the licensee is unable to successfully transfer
the required reports by modem. All licensees shall be required to convert to
APS reporting within six (6) months after the Police Department notifies the
licensee that the police division APS system is in operation. All costs for set
up, submittal per transaction, and any other determined costs shall be the sole
responsibility of the licensee. The records required herein shall be kept at
the licensee’s place of business for four (4) years and shall be available for
police inspection at any reasonable time.
      2.   Secondhand Goods Dealer: All secondhand goods dealers must submit to
the Director of Public Safety, or their designee, a complete list of the
following recordable transactions, regardless of resale price, once per week,
no later than twelve o’clock (12:00) noon the first day of each business week,
on a form approved by the Director of Public Safety. The report shall include a
description of the goods received during the preceding week, together with the
time received and a description of the person from whom the goods were
received:
         a.   Items with a serial number identification or “operation
identification” symbol or number, or other identification number;
         b.   Cameras;
         c.   Electronic audio, including, but not limited to, audio equipment,
video equipment, computers and computer related equipment;
         d.   Precious jewelry or gems, and precious metals (including precious
scrap metals);
         e.   Artist signed or artist attributed works of art;
         f.   Coin collections;
         g.   Sports memorabilia;
         h.   Guns and firearms; and
         i.   Items not included in the above, except furniture and kitchen or
laundry appliances, which the secondhand goods dealer intends to sell for more
than two hundred dollars ($200.00).
§ 3-4-7: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
   Any person, firm or corporation licensed under the provisions of this
Chapter shall, at all times during the terms of said license, allow the
officers of the City’s Police Department or any other law enforcement agency to
enter the premises where the licensee is carrying on such business or at any
property or buildings used for storage of items related to the business, for
the purpose of inspecting such premises and inspecting the goods, wares and
merchandise therein for the purpose of locating goods suspected or alleged to
have been stolen or otherwise improperly disposed of.
§ 3-4-8: BUSINESS TRANSACTIONS; REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Required Holding Period:
      1.   When the Director of Public Safety or their designee or any other
law enforcement agency notifies any pawnbroker or secondhand goods dealer not
to sell any property received on deposit or purchase, or not to permit the same
to be redeemed, the pawnbroker or secondhand goods dealer shall not sell nor
permit such property to be redeemed until such property is released in writing
by the Director of Public Safety or their designee.
         a.   If an item is identified as stolen or evidence in a criminal
case, the Director of Public Safety, or their designee, may:
            (1)   Physically confiscate and remove the item from the licensed
premises, pursuant to a written order from the Director of Public Safety or
their designee; or
            (2)   Place the item on hold or extend the hold pursuant to this
subsection and leave it on the licensed premises. When an item is confiscated,
the person doing so shall provide identification upon request of the licensee
and shall provide the licensee the name and phone number of the confiscating
agency, the name of the investigator assigned to the case, and the case number
related to the confiscation. The Director of Public Safety or their designee
shall provide the licensee with a property receipt for the item confiscated.
         b.   When an order to hold and/or confiscate is no longer necessary,
the Director of Public Safety or their designee will notify the licensee.
      2.   No personal property deposited with or purchased by any licensee
under this Chapter shall be sold from the place of business of licensee until
thirty (30) days after the copy of the records required by Section
3-4-6 of this Chapter have been made available to the Director of Public
Safety, except upon written permission of the Director of Public Safety.
      3.   No personal property deposited with or purchased by any licensee
under this Chapter shall be permitted to be redeemed from the place of business
of the licensee until three (3) working days after the copy of the records
required by Section
3-4-6 of this Chapter have been made available to the Director of Public
Safety, except upon written permission of the Director of Public Safety.
   B.   Report of Stolen or Lost Goods: If any goods, articles or things shall
be advertised in any public newspaper of the City as having been lost or
stolen, and such goods, articles or things shall then be, or shall thereafter
come into the possession of any licensee under the terms hereof, said licensee
shall, upon actual notice thereof, immediately thereafter, as a supplement to
said licensee’s required report pertaining to that day to the Director of
Public Safety, give information in writing that certain goods, articles or
things advertised are in said licensee’s possession, and shall not thereafter
dispose of the same except upon written authority so to do from the Director of
Public Safety.
   C.   Redemption Period: Any person who pawns an item shall have at least
thirty (30) days to redeem the item before it may be sold.
   D.   Prohibited Transactions:
      1.   No pawnbroker or secondhand goods dealer shall purchase or receive
on deposit or pledge anything of value as security for a loan of money from any
person under age eighteen (18), an intoxicated person, or a person of unsound
mind.
      2.   A pawnbroker or secondhand goods dealer may not receive goods unless
the seller presents identification in the form of a driver’s license or other
picture identification of the seller pursuant to the requirements of this
Chapter.
      3.   Prohibited Goods: No licensee under this Section shall accept any
item of property which contains an altered or obliterated serial number or
operations identification number or any item of property whose serial number
has been removed.
      4.   Requirements of Pledgers: No person may pawn, pledge, sell, consign,
leave or deposit any article of property with a licensee unless the person is
the owner of the property and the property is free from any security interests.
No person seeking to pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave or deposit any article
of property with any licensee shall give false information to the licensee.
   E.   Storage of Firearms and Weapons: A licensee may not receive or accept
firearms, including antique firearms, without a valid Federal firearms dealer
license. A pawnbroker or secondhand goods dealer with a valid Federal firearms
dealer license holding for sale a firearm or other dangerous weapon shall store
the firearm or dangerous weapon in a locked and opaque compartment except when
being viewed by a customer following a request to view the firearm or dangerous
weapon. The licensee shall meet all local, State and Federal requirements prior
to receiving or selling any firearm or dangerous weapon and make available to
the Director of Public Safety all records and documents prior to engaging in
such activity.
   F.   Method of Payment: When a pawnbroker or secondhand goods dealer accepts
an item for purchase or as security for a loan, payment shall be made by check
only, made payable to the actual intended seller or borrower.
   G.   Camera Surveillance: Licensee shall be required to videotape all
transactions and maintain a data copy of the recording for ninety (90) days.
The video recording shall include a clear view of the customer and shall
display the date and time of the transaction. The videotape recordings shall be
provided to the police division or other law enforcement agency upon request.
It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to notify the customer of the
videotaping and post in a conspicuous place that the tapes are made available
to the police division.
   H.   Burglar Alarm: Licensee shall maintain an electronic burglar alarm
system for the licensed premises, such system must be maintained in working
order and properly licensed with the City Clerk.
   I.   Labels: Licensee must attach a label to every item at the time it is
pawned, purchased or received in inventory from any reportable transaction.
Permanently recorded on this label must be the number or name that identifies
their transaction in the pawnshop records, the transaction date, the name or
description of the item, the model and serial number as they were reported to
the police division, if applicable, and the date the item is out of pawn care
or can be sold, if applicable. The label must be of the type that can be
attached to a variety of surfaces and remains easily removable but of such
construction that it may not be easily removed in one (1) piece. Labels shall
not be reused.
§ 3-4-9: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   In addition to the grounds for denial, suspension or revocation stated
in City Code Section
3-1-11.B, any license under this Chapter may be denied, suspended, or revoked
for any of the following reasons:
      1. The owner makes a false entry in the records of pawn or secondhand
goods dealer transactions.
      2. The owner falsifies, obliterates, destroys, or removes from the place
of business the records, books or accounts relating to the licensee’s pawn
transactions or secondhand goods dealer transactions.
      3. The owner refuses to allow the appropriate law enforcement agency, the
Attorney General or any other duly authorized Federal or State law enforcement
officers to inspect the pawn or secondhand goods dealer records or goods in the
person’s possession during the ordinary hours of business.
CHAPTER 5: TOBACCO SALES
Section
3-5-1: Purpose
3-5-2: Definitions
3-5-3: License Required; Prohibited Licensees
3-5-4: Application for License
3-5-5: Investigation
3-5-6: Conditions of License
3-5-7: Compliance Checks and Inspections
3-5-8: Prohibited Acts
3-5-9: License Penalties
§ 3-5-1: PURPOSE:
   Because the City recognizes that many persons under the age of twenty-one
(21) years purchase or otherwise obtain, possess, or use tobacco, tobacco
products, tobacco-related devices, and electronic delivery devices, and such
sales or provision to persons under the age of twenty-one (21) years are
violations of both State and Federal laws; and because studies, which the City
hereby accepts and adopts, have shown that most smokers begin smoking before
they reach the age of twenty-one (21) years, and that those persons who reach
the age of twenty-one (21) years without having started smoking are
significantly less likely to begin smoking; and because smoking has shown to be
the cause of several serious health problems which subsequently place a
financial burden on all levels of government; this Chapter shall be intended to
regulate the sale, possession, and use and provision of tobacco, tobacco
products, tobacco-related devices, and electronic delivery devices for the
purpose of enforcing and furthering existing laws, to protect persons under
twenty-one (21) against the serious effects associated with the illegal use of
tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-related devices, and electronic delivery
devices and to further the official public policy of the State in regard to
preventing young people from starting to smoke as stated in Minnesota Statutes
Section 144.391.
§ 3-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS: The system the City uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-related devices,
and electronic delivery devices are following and complying with the
requirements of this Chapter and State law. Compliance checks shall involve the
use of persons at least seventeen (17) years of age, but under twenty-one (21)
years of age as authorized by this Chapter and State law. Compliance checks
shall also mean the use of persons at least seventeen (17) years of age, but
under twenty-one (21) years of age, who attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco
products, tobacco-related devices, or electronic delivery devices for
educational, research and training purposes as authorized by State law. The age
requirements for persons participating in compliance checks under this Chapter
shall not affect the age requirements in Federal law for persons participating
in federally required compliance checks.
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICES: Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia, or any other substance, whether natural or synthetic, intended for
human consumption through inhalation of aerosol or vapor from the product.
Electronic delivery devices include, but are not limited to, devices
manufactured, marketed, or sold as electronic cigarettes, electronic cigars,
electronic pipes, vape pens, modes, tank systems, or under any other product
name or descriptor. Electronic delivery device includes any component part of a
product, whether or not marketed or sold separately.
   INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED: The practice of selling any tobacco or tobacco
product wrapped individually for sale. Individually wrapped tobacco and tobacco
products shall include, but not be limited to, single cigarette packs, single
bags or cans of loose tobacco in any form, and single cans or packaging of
snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons or other packaging containing more than a
single pack or other container as described in this Chapter shall not be
considered “individually packaged”.
   LOOSIES: The common term used to refer to a single or individually packaged
cigarette or any other tobacco product that has been removed from its packaging
and sold individually. The term loosies does not include individual cigars with
a retail price, before any sales tax, of more than two dollars ($2.00) per
cigar.
   MOVABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS: Any form of business operated out of a truck,
van, automobile, recreational vehicle or other type of vehicle or transportable
shelter and not a fixed address, storefront or other permanent type of
structure authorized for sales transactions.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT: Any place of business where tobacco, tobacco products,
or tobacco related devices are available to the general public. RETAIL
ESTABLISHMENTS shall include, but not be limited to, grocery stores,
convenience stores, and restaurants.
   SALE: Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter, or other
consideration.
   SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING: Open displays of tobacco, tobacco products, or
tobacco related devices in any manner where any person shall have access to the
tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices, without the assistance
or intervention of the licensee or the licensee’s employee. The assistance or
intervention shall entail the actual physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco
product, or tobacco related device between the customer and the licensee or
employee. SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING shall not include vending machines.
   TOBACCO OR TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Any substance or item containing tobacco leaf,
including, but not limited to, cigarettes; cigars; pipe tobacco; snuff; fine
cut or other chewing tobacco; cheroots; stogies; perique; granulated, plug cut,
crimp cut, ready rubbed, and other smoking tobacco; snuff flowers; cavendish;
shorts; plug and twist tobaccos; dipping tobaccos; refuse scraps; clippings;
cuttings, and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco leaf
prepared in such manner as to be suitable for chewing, sniffing, or smoking.
   TOBACCO RELATED DEVICES: Any tobacco product as well as a pipe, rolling
papers, or other device intentionally designed or intended to be used in a
manner which enables the chewing, sniffing, smoking or other consumption,
whether by inhalation aerosol or vapor, ingestion, or any other method of
consumption of tobacco or tobacco products.
   VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical, electric, electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices
upon the insertion of money, tokens, or other form of payment directly into the
machine by the person seeking to purchase the tobacco, tobacco product, or
tobacco related device.
§ 3-5-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; PROHIBITED LICENSEES:
   No person shall sell or offer to sell any tobacco, tobacco products, or
tobacco related device without first having obtained a license from the City
pursuant to City Code Title 3, Chapter 1. No license shall be issued to a
movable place of business; only fixed location businesses shall be eligible to
be licensed under this Chapter.
§ 3-5-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   In addition to the application information requirements of City Code Section
3-1-2, the applicant shall submit a copy of the educational materials the
applicant uses to educate employees as part of its instructional program.
§ 3-5-5: INVESTIGATION:
   A.   For all new and renewal applicants, a background investigation will be
conducted on the applicant listed on the application pursuant to City Code
Section
3-1-2.B. If more than one (1) background investigation is required, the
applicant shall pay a background investigation fee for each background
investigation conducted. For applicants who have an existing tobacco license
and want to add an additional location at any time before annual renewal, a
background investigation will be required.
   B.   For applicants who are applying for a license for more than one (1)
location, only one (1) background investigation and background investigation
fee shall be required.
§ 3-5-6: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Prohibited Sales:
      1.   Prohibitions Generally: It shall be a violation of this Chapter for
any person to offer to sell any tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco related
device, or electronic delivery device:
         a.   To any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years.
         b.   By means of any type of vending machine, except as may otherwise
be provided in this Chapter.
         c.   By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not
need to make a verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed
premises in order to receive the tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco related
device and whereby there is not a physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco
product, or tobacco related device between the licensee or the licensee’s
employee, and the customer.
         d.   By means of “loosies” as defined in this Chapter.
         e.   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, bella donna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana, or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic, or controlled
substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process.
         f.   By any other means, to any other person, or in any other manner
or form prohibited by Federal, State, or other Local law, ordinance provision,
or other regulation.
      2.   Vending Machines: It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under
this Chapter to allow the sale of tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco-related
devices by the means of a vending machine unless persons under twenty-one (21)
are at all times prohibited from entering the licensed establishment.
      3.   Self-Service Sales:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this Chapter to allow
the sale of tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco-related devices by any means
whereby the customer may have access to such items without having to request
the item from the licensee or the licensee’s employee and whereby there is not
a physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco-related device, or
electronic delivery device between the licensee or their employee and the
customer.
         b.   All tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-related devices, and
electronic delivery devices shall either be stored behind a counter or other
area not freely accessible to customers, or in a case or other storage unit not
left open and accessible to the general public.
   B.   Responsibility of Licensees for Employees: All licensees under this
Chapter shall be responsible for the actions of their employees in regard to
the sale of tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-related devices, or electronic
delivery devices on the licensed premises, and the sale of such an item by an
employee shall be considered a sale by the license holder. Nothing in this
subsection shall be construed as prohibiting the City from also subjecting the
licensee’s employees to whatever penalties are appropriate under this Chapter
or other applicable Federal or State law or regulation.
   C.   Age of Clerks: It shall be illegal for a retail establishment to cause
or permit a person under twenty-one (21) to sell tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco-related devices, or electronic delivery devices unless there is an
employee twenty-one (21) years or older on duty and present within the
establishment.
   D.   Signage: Anyone holding a tobacco license under the provisions of this
Chapter shall post and display in plain view of the general public on the
licensed premises a sign indicating that it is illegal to sell tobacco, tobacco
products, tobacco-related devices, and electronic delivery devices to anyone
under the age of twenty-one (21) years and that the possession and use of such
items by persons under twenty-one (21) are also illegal under Federal law,
State law and Local ordinance. Said signs shall be approved by City staff and
issued to a retail establishment at the time that a license is obtained. The
cost of said sign shall be included within the licensing fee.
§ 3-5-7: COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS:
   All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by the City police or
other authorized City official during regular business hours. From time to
time, but at least once per year, the Police Department shall conduct
compliance checks engaging someone at least seventeen (17) years old but less
than twenty-one (21) years old to enter the licensed premises to attempt to
purchase tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco-related devices, or electronic
delivery devices. Persons under eighteen (18) years of age shall be utilized
only with the written consent of their parent(s) or guardian(s). Persons used
for the purpose of compliance checks shall be supervised by City designated law
enforcement officers. Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit compliance
checks authorized by state or federal laws for educational, research, or
training purposes, or required for the enforcement of a particular State or
Federal law. However, all such compliance checks must be coordinated through
the Police Department.
§ 3-5-8: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be violations of this
Chapter:
   A.   Illegal Sales: For any person to sell, give, or otherwise provide any
tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco-related device to any person under twenty-
one (21).
   B.   Illegal Possession: For any person under twenty-one (21) to have in
their possession any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco-related device. This
subsection shall not apply to persons lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   C.   Illegal Use: For any person under twenty-one (21) to smoke, chew,
sniff, or otherwise use any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-related device.
   D.   Illegal Procurement:
      1.   For any person under twenty-one (21) to purchase or attempt to
purchase or otherwise obtain any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco-related
device.
      2.   For any person to purchase or otherwise obtain such items on behalf
of a person under twenty-one (21).
      3.   For any person to coerce or attempt to coerce a person under twenty-
one (21) to illegally purchase or otherwise obtain or use any tobacco, tobacco
product, or tobacco-related device.
      This subsection D shall not apply to persons lawfully involved in a
compliance check.
   E.   Use of False Identification: For any person under twenty-one (21) to
attempt to disguise their true age by the use of a false form of
identification, whether the identification is that of another person or one on
which the age has been modified or tampered with to represent an age older than
the actual age of the person.
§ 3-5-9: LICENSE PENALTIES:
   A.   Authorization: Minnesota Statutes Section 461.12, subdivision 2
authorizes a City Council to impose penalties on the holder of any tobacco
license or permit who has failed to comply with an applicable statute or
ordinance.
   B.   Hearing: No penalty may be imposed until the licensee or individual who
failed to comply has been given written notice of the violation and an
opportunity for a hearing before the City Council. Any decision that a
violation has occurred must be in writing. Penalties shall be provided in the
City’s fee ordinance.
CHAPTER 6: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
3-6-1: Purpose and Scope
3-6-2: Definitions
3-6-3: Alarm User Registration
3-6-4: False Alarms
3-6-5: Prohibitions
§ 3-6-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   The purpose of this Chapter is to protect the City from unnecessary
calls for public safety services resulting from the operation of alarm systems.
   B.   This Chapter regulates the use of alarm systems and establishes fees
and a system of administration.
§ 3-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   ALARM: A signal from an alarm system which directly or indirectly summons
Public Safety Department personnel.
   ALARM SYSTEM: Any mechanical, electrical or electronic device designed to be
used for the prevention or detection of burglary, robbery, fire or any other
type of emergency situation occurring on the premises.
   ALARM USER: The person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind who is in control of any building, structure or
facility wherein an alarm system is maintained.
   FALSE ALARM: An alarm signal eliciting a response by Public Safety
Department personnel at a business or residence where a situation requiring a
response does not exist, and which is caused by the activation of the alarm
system through mechanical failure, alarm malfunctions, improper installation,
failure to properly maintain the alarm system or the inadvertence of the owner
or another. A false alarm shall not include an alarm caused by climactic
conditions such as tornadoes, thunderstorms or another type of violent storm,
vandalism, utility line mishaps or other unusual circumstances not subject to
the control of the alarm system or alarm user. A false alarm does not include
alarms occurring within the first thirty (30) days of operation of a new alarm
system.
§ 3-6-3: ALARM USER REGISTRATION:
   A.   Registration Required: Once an alarm system within a business or
industrial zoning district or on a residentially zoned property possessing a
conditional use permit generates a false alarm, the alarm user will be required
to register with the City for the calendar year in which the false alarm
occurred.
   B.   Registration Requirements: A registration form shall be submitted to
the City and shall specify:
      1.   The alarm username, contact information, and address for the
premises in which the alarm system is installed;
      2.   A list of available key holders who may be contacted after business
hours; and
      3.   Other pertinent information as may be required by the City.
   C.   Exemptions: Any alarm system operated by a city, state, or federal
government entity shall be exempt from the provisions of this Chapter.
§ 3-6-4: FALSE ALARMS:
   A.   False Alarm Fees: When any alarm system that is required to be
registered generates more than four (4) false alarms in a calendar year, the
alarm user will be charged false alarm fees in such amounts as provided for by
ordinance of the City Council.
   B.   Appeal of False Alarm Fees: Any alarm user may appeal a false alarm in
writing to the City within ten (10) days of the date of notice of the false
alarm. The City has authority to make a final determination as to whether the
false alarm and any associated fee will be upheld or dismissed.
   C.   Payment of False Alarm Fees: False alarm fees must be paid by the alarm
user within thirty (30) days of issuance of a false alarm invoice, or, in the
case of an appealed false alarm, within thirty (30) days of notification that
the false alarm has been upheld.
§ 3-6-5: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Alarm systems utilizing audible alarms, including, but not limited to,
a siren, bell or loudspeaker, which do not automatically shut off after fifteen
(15) minutes of operation are prohibited.
   B.   Alarm systems utilizing flashing or brightly illuminated lights which
do not automatically shut off after fifteen (15) minutes of operation are
prohibited.
CHAPTER 7: THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE
Section
3-7-1: Purpose
3-7-2: Definitions
3-7-3: License Required
3-7-4: License Performance Standards
3-7-5: Prohibited Conduct
3-7-6: License Suspension/Revocation
3-7-7: License Exemption
§ 3-7-1: PURPOSE:
   The purpose of this Chapter is to prohibit massage businesses and services
to the public except those licensed as therapeutic massage businesses and
massage therapists pursuant to this Chapter. The licensing regulations
prescribed herein are necessary in order to protect businesses that are
operating legitimate businesses, to prevent criminal activity and to protect
the health and welfare of the community. The purpose of this Chapter is not to
impose restrictions or limitations on the freedom of protected speech or
expression.
§ 3-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   APPLICANT: An individual, partnership, corporation or other organization or
entity that is applying for licensure, including any individuals who hold an
interest in that organization.
   LICENSEE: An individual, partnership, corporation or other organization or
entity that is licensed, including any individuals who hold an interest in that
organization.
   MASSAGE THERAPIST: An individual who practices therapeutic massage.
   PERSON: An individual, partnership, corporation or other organization or
entity.
   STANDARDS OF PRACTICE: Standards of Practice published by the National
Certification Board for Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork.
   THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE: The systematic manual manipulation of soft tissue to
enhance health and well-being.
   THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE BUSINESS: A business that offers therapeutic massage
services.
§ 3-7-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Therapeutic Massage Business: No person shall operate a therapeutic
massage business without a license obtained pursuant to Title 3, Chapter 1 of
the City Code. Licensed therapeutic massage businesses may only provide
therapeutic massage services by licensed massage therapists who are employed by
the business. No more than one (1) business license shall be issued to any one
(1) person or for any one (1) location in the City.
   B.   Massage Therapists: No person shall provide therapeutic massage
services without a license obtained pursuant to Title 3, Chapter 1 of the City
Code. A licensed massage therapist may only provide therapeutic massage
services as part of a licensed therapeutic massage business. A massage
therapist license shall only be issued to an individual and shall not be issued
to a partnership, corporation, or other organization or entity.
      1.   Application: Application for a massage therapist license shall be
made on a form prescribed by the City, and shall include the requisite
information under City Code Section
3-1-2 as well as any of the following information:
         a.   Proof of Education/Certification: The applicant shall have proof
of at least one (1) of the following education/certification requirements sent
directly from the institution, program, Examining Board or Certification Board
to the City:
            (1)   Graduation from an institution or program in massage therapy
that is accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the United States
Department of Education.
            (2)   Passing results of Massage and Bodywork Licensing Examination
(MBLEx) administered by the Federation of State Massage Therapy Boards (FSMTB),
the National Certification Exam for Therapeutic Massage (NCETM) or National
Certification Exam for Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork (NCETMB) administered
by the National Certification Board for Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork
(NCBTMB).
            (3)   Board Certification in Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork
(BCTMB) from the National Certification Board for Therapeutic Massage and
Bodywork (NCBTMB).
§ 3-7-4: LICENSE PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   In addition to the requirements of Title 3, Chapter 1 of the City Code,
all licensed massage businesses and massage therapists must comply with the
following performance standards:
      1.   Compliance with Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 146A, Complementary and
Alternative Health Care Practices.
      2.   Compliance with Standards of Practice published by the National
Certification Board for Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork (NCBTMB), as they may
be amended from time to time. Standards specific to the NCBTMB will only apply
to individuals holding Board Certification with the NCBTMB.
      3.   Massage business licenses are effective for the compact and
contiguous space in the approved license application. A massage business
license shall entitle the business to offer off-site therapeutic massage
services at an event that is open to the general public, such as a fundraiser,
community festival or other similar event, provided such services are performed
by a licensed massage therapist employed by the business.
   B.   A licensed massage business or massage therapist that fails to abide by
the performance standards outlined by this subsection shall be grounds for
suspension or revocation of the license.
§ 3-7-5: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
   A.   In addition to the requirements of Title 3, Chapter 1 of the City Code,
the following conduct is prohibited:
      1.   Any conduct prohibited under Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 146A,
Complementary and Alternative Health Care Practices.
      2.   Allowing an individual not licensed as a massage therapist to
perform therapeutic massage.
§ 3-7-6: LICENSE SUSPENSION/REVOCATION:
   The City Council may consider suspension or revocation of a massage business
or massage therapist license when grounds exist, following the procedures of
City Code Section
3-1-11.B.
§ 3-7-7: LICENSE EXEMPTION:
   A.   A massage business license or massage therapist license is not required
for the following:
      1.   Facilities licensed by the Minnesota Department of Health.
      2.   Licensed or registered health care practitioners that offer massage
therapy services under the practitioner’s license as outlined by Minnesota
Statutes Section 146A.065, when the therapist is hired or employed by a medical
professional licensed under Minnesota Statutes, Chapters 147 or 148 or a dental
professional licensed under Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 150A. A massage
therapist is not limited to providing treatment to patients of the medical or
dental professional.
      3.   Persons licensed by the State of Minnesota Board of Barber Examiners
as barbers or the State of Minnesota Board of Cosmetology as cosmetologists,
provided such persons do not hold themselves out as offering massage services
and provided any massage service is complementary to the licensed activity and
is limited to the head, neck, hands, or feet.
      4.   Students from an accredited institution (pursuant to the
requirements of Section
3-7-3.B.1.a. who are performing massage services in the course of a clinical
component of an accredited program of study, provided that the students meet
all of the following:
         a.   Perform the massage services at either the location of the
accredited institution or clinics or other massage therapy businesses located
outside of the accredited institution (if performing massage therapy outside of
the institution the students must have at least one hundred fifty (150) hours
of certified therapeutic massage training at the accredited institution prior
to performing the massage therapy);
         b.   Have proof of liability insurance, which may be covered by the
clinic or other massage therapy business or by the accredited institution; and
         c.   Are identified to the public as a student of massage therapy.
CHAPTER 8: BUILDING CONTRACTORS
Section
3-8-1: Policy
3-8-2: License and Permit Required
3-8-3: Application for License
3-8-4: License Fee; Exemption
3-8-5: Suspension or Revocation of License
3-8-6: Exemptions from Provisions
3-8-7: Effect on Liability
§ 3-8-1: POLICY:
   It is deemed in the interest of the public and the residents of the City
that the work involved in building, alteration and construction and the
installation of various appliances and service facilities be done only by
individuals that have demonstrated their competency to perform such work in
accordance with the applicable codes and ordinances of the City.
§ 3-8-2: LICENSE AND PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   License Required:
      1.   No person, firm or corporation shall operate, maintain, conduct or
engage in the following businesses or work, except in accordance with State
Statutes, this Code and other applicable ordinances of the City:
         a.   General contracting in the business of building construction and
remodeling.
         b.   Masonry and brick work.
         c.   Roofing and siding (includes soffit, fascia and/or gutters).
         d.   Heating, ventilation and refrigeration.
         e.   Gas piping, gas services and gas equipment installation.
         f.   Blacktopping.
         g.   Water supply system installation and construction.
         h.   Excavation, including excavation for footings, basements, sewer
and water line installation.
         i.   Demolition.
         j.   Sign erection, construction and repair, including billboards and
electrical signs.
         k.   Fire suppression systems.
         l.   Swimming pool installers.
         m.   Framing.
         n.   Insulation installers.
         o.   Fencing contractors.
         p.   Irrigation contractors.
      2.   This subsection shall not be construed as preventing any such
qualified licensee from having the work performed by an employee under the
licensee’s supervision and control or by contract with another person qualified
to perform the same; provided, that the contractor is subject to the control of
the licensee, and the licensee is at all times responsible for the work
performed. A contractor not subject to the control of a licensee shall be
required to obtain a license.
   B.   Permit Required: For each of the businesses or occupations listed in
subsection A.1 of this section for which the State of Minnesota provides for
the registration thereof, permits shall be granted only to holders of a State
or City license; except, that the owner of any property may perform work when
work is performed in accordance with the codes and ordinances of the City, and
for such purpose, a permit may be granted to such owner without a license
obtained. An unlicensed person may install plumbing only in a building which is
their own residence, and only in that part of the building which the owner is
actually occupying. A person may not install a plumbing system in a building
which they intend to occupy as a residence in the future and may not install
the plumbing in any part of the building which is or will be occupied by
someone else, i.e., a tenant or friend.
§ 3-8-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   Application for a license shall be made on forms provided by the Building
Official and will be issued in accordance with City Code Section
3-1-2.
§ 3-8-4: LICENSE FEE; EXEMPTION:
   A license fee must be paid in accordance with City Code Section
3-1-2.A.6 before the City will issue a license. No license fee shall be
required of any person, firm or corporation, pursuant to this section, who, by
state law, is required to attain standards of competency or experience as a
prerequisite to engaging in such craft or profession; provided, that the person
shall provide evidence to the City that the individual, firm or corporation has
a license in good standing from the State, and further provides proof of
insurance in effect through the term of the license issued by the State.
§ 3-8-5: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   The City may suspend or revoke a building contractor’s license if the
licensee violates or is in default of complying with any condition,
requirement, duty or rule of conduct imposed upon them by any statute or
ordinance in accordance with the provisions of City Code Section
3-1-11.B.
§ 3-8-6: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
   No license will be required under this Chapter in the following
circumstances:
   A.   For public service corporations performing work upon or in connection
with their own property, except as may be provided by other provisions of this
Code.
   B.   For manufacturers for work incorporated with equipment as a part of the
manufacturing, except as may be provided in other provisions of this Code.
§ 3-8-7: EFFECT ON LIABILITY:
   This Chapter shall not be construed to affect the responsibility or
liability for any party owning, operating, or installing the work described in
this Chapter for damages to persons or property caused by any defect therein,
nor shall the City be held as assuming any such liability by reason of the
licensing of persons engaged in such work.
CHAPTER 9: MINING, SAND AND GRAVEL OPERATIONS
Section
3-9-1: Purpose
3-9-2: Definitions
3-9-3: Permit Required; Review and Action
3-9-4: Application for Permit
3-9-5: Inspection and Review Fees
3-9-6: Letter of Credit and Insurance Requirements
3-9-7: Expiration, Termination of Permit
3-9-8: Performance Standards
3-9-9: Inspections; Remedies
3-9-10: Variances
§ 3-9-1: PURPOSE:
   This Chapter is adopted for the purpose of:
   A.   Ensuring the restoration of the mined area consistent with existing and
planned land use patterns, and to promoting appropriate reuse of the mined
areas.
   B.   Ensuring conformity of mining operations with the City’s Critical Area
and Comprehensive Plans.
   C.   Controlling the effects of noise, dust, erosion, traffic, drainage,
ground water pollution and other factors related to mining in general.
§ 3-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   ENGINEER: An engineer registered with the Minnesota Board of Architecture,
Engineering, Land Surveying-Landscape Architecture, Geoscience and Interior
Design.
   LAND SURVEYOR: A land surveyor registered with the Minnesota Board of
Architecture, Engineering, Land Surveying-Landscape Architecture, Geoscience
and Interior Design.
   LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT: A landscape architect registered with the Minnesota
Board of Architecture, Engineering, Land Surveying-Landscape Architecture,
Geoscience and Interior Design.
   MINING: Includes the excavation, removal or storage of topsoil, sand,
gravel, rock, soil, clay and other natural deposits within the City. MINING
shall not include the excavation, removal or storage of rock, sand, dirt,
gravel, clay or other material for the purpose of the foundation, cellar or
basement of some pending structure, for which a permit has been issued and
which is to be erected immediately following the excavation, removal or
storage. MINING shall not include the removal or moving of materials for
construction of roads, sewer lines, storm sewers, water mains, surface water
drainage, agriculture or conservation purposes and sod removal, nor shall
MINING include the moving of dirt for landscaping purposes on a lot used or to
be used for residential purposes.
   PROCESSING: Includes the crushing, sorting, screening, washing, loading,
hauling or any handling of material.
§ 3-9-3: PERMIT REQUIRED; REVIEW AND ACTION:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in mining within the City or
for a property owner to permit a person to mine on their property without first
having obtained an annual mining permit. The annual mining permit shall be
reviewed by the Community Development Director and the permit issued within
sixty (60) days after the completed application has been accepted by the City.
Increases in the amount of material or changes in the type of material to be
mined shall require review by the Planning Commission and approval by the City
Council. (Ord. 1099, 4-16-2025)
§ 3-9-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   The application and accompanying documents of the annual mining permit
required in Section
3-9-3 of this Chapter shall be filed with the City. The application and
accompanying documents shall be signed by the operator and property owner and
submitted to the City no later than sixty (60) days prior to the date for which
the annual mining permit is to take effect. The application shall be made in
the names of the operator of the mine and the owner of the land to be mined.
The application shall contain the following information:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant and of the owner of the land.
   B.   A legal description of the lands from which it is proposed to mine.
   C.   Names of all adjacent landowners within a one-half (½) mile radius.
   D.   Copies of any portions of agreements indicating the duration of any
lease, if applicable.
   E.   The purpose of the removal.
   F.   The estimated time required to complete the removal.
   G.   The highways, streets or other public ways within the City upon and
along which the material removed shall be transported.
   H.   The plan of operation, including soil processing (any operation other
than directed mining and removal), nature of the processing and equipment, the
area, depth and grade of such processing, the estimated quantity of earth
deposits to be added to or removed from the premises, location of the plant,
source of water, disposal of water and reuse of water. In the event that water
is used in the operation of a pit, approval from the State Department of
Natural Resources and other appropriate State or Federal agencies shall be
obtained as to the type, location, and depth of such well and shall be
contained within such application. A separate map drawn to scale or other scale
as determined adequate by the Director of Community Development, prepared by a
landscape architect or engineer, shall be submitted showing the following
proposed activities for the permit year:
      1.   Clearing operations, including a written statement describing
removal and processing techniques and timing.
      2.   Stripping operations, including a written statement describing depth
of soil and overburden, removal techniques and timing.
      3.   Stockpiling operations, including location of topsoil and overburden
stockpiles, and a written statement describing timing and simultaneous
extraction and reclamation program, if any.
      4.   Extraction operations, including location of proposed drilling,
blasting, loading, dewatering, proposed pit depths and cross-section of typical
pit area and slope bank.
      5.   Transportation facilities, including proposed on-site roads,
proposed barge loading and fleeting areas, and estimated barge capacity of each
area.
      6.   Proposed sequence of extraction and reclamation by at least a ten
(10) year interval, for the projected lifetime of the proposed mining site.
      7.   An estimate of the total number of tons of material to be removed or
stored on the site during the permit year.
   I.   To provide for an orderly, sequential rehabilitation of all land
permitted to be excavated, and to prepare the mined land for its ultimate reuse
in accordance with City plans, policies and regulations, a reclamation plan
shall accompany each annual mining permit application. The reclamation plan
shall be submitted by the applicant in three parts: (1) a general plan for
reclamation; (2) a reclamation contour plan; and (3) a description of
reclamation and materials proposed for renewal of topsoil and planting.
      1.   General Plan for Reclamation: A general plan for reclamation,
prepared by a landscape architect, engineer or surveyor, drawn to a scale or
other scale as determined adequate by the Director of Community Development,
shall be submitted showing:
         a.   Area and acreage of completely reclaimed land as of the date of
the annual mining permit application.
         b.   Area and acreage of reclamation under way as of the date of the
annual mining permit application.
         c.   Area and acreage proposed for reclamation during the proposed
permit year.
         d.   Proposed final land use and supporting facilities, prepared in
the same manner as described above.
      2.   Reclamation Contour Plan: A reclamation contour plan of the area to
be reclaimed during the permit year shall be prepared by a landscape architect,
engineer or surveyor, and drawn to a scale or other scale determined adequate
by the Director of Community Development, indicating grading and sloping of
mined areas, including:
         a.   Landform topography at two-foot (2') contour intervals.
         b.   Specific slope of banks and cross sections of representative
slopes.
         c.   Average depth of topsoil and overburden of reclaimed landforms.
         d.   Water impoundment areas, including surface acreage and
elevations, public or private access and typical cross sections.
      3.   Topsoil and Replanting Plan: A general plan for replacement of
topsoil and replanting during the permit year, prepared by a landscape
architect or engineer, and drawn to scale or other scale determined adequate by
the Director of Community Development, and accompanied by a written report,
shall be submitted describing the following:
         a.   Seedbed and seed mix.
         b.   Species, size, quantity and location of trees, shrubs and
grasses.
         c.   Planting season.
         d.   Visual screening.
         e.   Wildlife species to be introduced, if any.
         f.   Required topsoil fertility.
§ 3-9-5: INSPECTION AND REVIEW FEES:
   An annual inspection and review fee shall accompany the mining permit
application. This fee shall be used to defray the cost of application review,
inspections and monitoring to the City, including, but not limited to, the
costs of professional engineering, planning, zoning and legal services related
to permit review, administration and monitoring. Within thirty (30) days
following the last inspection of the permit year, the City shall provide the
operator with an itemized statement of the inspection and review costs. If, at
year’s end, the submitted fee exceeds actual costs, City will reimburse the
difference to the operator. If the actual costs exceed the submitted fee, the
operator shall reimburse the difference to the City. The annual permit fee
shall be in such amount as provided by ordinance of the City Council from time
to time.
§ 3-9-6: LETTER OF CREDIT AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Letter of Credit:
      1.   The City Council shall require the applicant, owner or user of the
property on which the pit or excavation is located to execute and file with the
City Clerk a letter of credit.
      2.   Such letter of credit shall have sufficient surety running to the
City, conditioned to pay the City the extraordinary cost and expense of
repairing, from time to time, any highways, streets or other public ways where
such repair work is made necessary by the special burden resulting from hauling
and travel in removing material from any pit or excavation and conditioned
further to comply with all the requirements of this Chapter and the particular
permit.
   B.   Insurance: The operator or lessor of the land involved shall secure and
maintain such insurance in amounts which shall not be less than the following:
      1.   Worker’s compensation and employer’s liability, which shall be
secured and maintained as required by the State.
      2.   Public liability, personal injury and property damage:
         a.   Injury or death of one (1) person: two hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($250,000.00).
         b.   Injury to more than one (1) person in a single accident: five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00).
         c.   Property damage: two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00).
      3.   Automobile and truck public liability, personal injury and property
damage, including owned and nonowned vehicles:
         a.   Injury or death of one (1) person: two hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($250,000.00).
         b.   Injury to more than one (1) person in a single accident: five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00).
         c.   Property damage: one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00).
         d.   Insurance for other hazards: The gravel contractor is responsible
for any damage as a result of the work, operations, acts, omissions, neglect,
equipment failure or other causes arising out of their contract, including such
damage as may be caused by or result from water. Insurance for hazards other
than protected by insurance herein specified is at the contractor’s option.
§ 3-9-7: EXPIRATION, TERMINATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Expiration: Annual mining permits shall expire on February 1 of each
year.
   B.   Termination:
      1.   The City Council may terminate an annual mining permit for violation
of this Code or any conditions of the permit pursuant to City Code Section
3-1-11.B.
      2.   To terminate a permit, the City Council or its designee shall give
notice of the violation or other cause for the termination along with an order
that the condition be remedied. If the condition has not been corrected within
the specified time, the City Council shall hold a public hearing to determine
whether the permit should be terminated.
   C.   No mining shall take place after the permit is terminated pursuant to
this subsection.
§ 3-9-8: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   The following minimum requirements shall apply to all excavation operations:
   A.   Outer Limits: Outer limits of excavation shall be determined by the
following:
      1.   In zoning districts where commercial excavation is not a permitted
use, but allowed by conditional use permit, the outer limit or edge of any
excavation shall not be closer than one hundred feet (100') to any abutting
property line.
      2.   In the Commercial Excavation District, I-3, no excavation outer
limit or edge shall be closer than one hundred feet (100') to any property
abutting a zoning district where excavation is not a permitted use.
   B.   Slopes:
      1.   Finished slopes of any edge contiguous to property owned by others
shall not be less than a ratio of four feet (4') horizontal to one foot (1')
vertical for sand and gravel operations.
      2.   The slope of banks during the excavation of material shall be kept
in such a condition so as not to be dangerous because of overhangs, sliding or
caving banks. Such dangerous conditions shall be declared to be a nuisance, and
the City may give notice to the operator or owner to abate the same.
   C.   Removal of Materials:
      1.   All excavated materials shall be removed from the premises only upon
and along such highways, streets or other public ways as the City Council shall
order and direct.
      2.   All trees, stumps and debris must be disposed of within thirty (30)
days by removal or, if allowed, by burning. Rocks which are not crushed, and
which are one-third (1/3) yard or larger in size shall be buried after
termination of excavation operations.
   D.   Depth: The depth of excavation may be restricted in areas programmed
for future public utilities. This restriction may be necessary to ensure
adequate utility service and routing. The City Engineer shall determine the
maximum depth of excavation allowed in these areas. No excavation shall be
allowed below grade closer than one hundred feet (100') to the right-of-way
line of any existing street, road or highway; except, that excavating may be
conducted within such limits in order to reduce the elevation thereof in
conformity to the existing or proposed street grades.
   E.   Berms: In order to prevent contamination of freshwater lakes created as
a result of mining, infiltration of flood water and storm water shall be
prevented by the use of an earthen berm where necessary. No berm will be
required where it can be shown that the natural topography will prevent such
infiltration. When a berm is necessary, such berm may not be constructed in the
required setback. Berms shall be constructed at least to the height of the
City’s official flood protection elevation.
   F.   Water Bodies:
      1.   The operator shall replace any public or private well or water body
which goes dry or is contaminated as a result of the mining operation.
      2.   In order to prevent erosion and to preserve shore land aesthetics,
mining within a strip two hundred feet (200') from a lake shore, river or
stream shall be prohibited. This zone shall be measured inland from the normal
high water mark as determined by the point where the natural vegetation changes
predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial.
      3.   Excavations resulting in the accumulation of substantial water areas
after rehabilitation must meet the following requirements:
         a.   All banks shall be sloped to the water line at a slope which
shall not be steeper than four feet (4') horizontal to one foot (1') vertical.
         b.   All banks shall be sodded or surfaced with soil of a quality at
least equal to the topsoil of land areas immediately surrounding and to a depth
of at least three inches (3").
         c.   Such topsoil as required in subsection F.3.b. of this Section
shall be planted with trees, shrubs, legumes or grasses upon the parts of such
area where re-vegetation is possible.
         d.   In the event that a development plan is submitted which
anticipates a lake about which lots will be platted, such lake must be planned
for at least a fifteen-foot (15') depth. Any development plan indicating a lake
development shall provide a means for level control or computations which prove
that the lake can contain drainage directly to it by free board storage
utilizing a one hundred (100) year storm. It is understood that the water table
in the area in question is unstable, and any problems arising regarding the
depth of the lake created shall be referred to the City Engineer.
         e.   The bottom of a reclaimed lake shall be sloped to a grade not to
exceed three feet (3') horizontal to one foot (1') vertical for a distance of
thirty feet (30') from the water’s edge.
         f.   Swimming beaches and access areas shall have a minimum frontage
of at least one hundred feet (100'). Water depth in swimming beach areas shall
not be in excess of ten feet (10') within one hundred feet (100') of the shore.
      4.   Excavations not resulting in water areas after rehabilitation, but
which must be graded or backfilled, shall meet the following requirements:
         a.   The graded or backfilled area shall not collect or permit
stagnant water to remain therein.
         b.   The peaks and depressions of the area shall be reduced to a
gently rolling topography in substantial conformity to the land area
immediately surrounding and which will minimize erosion due to rainfall.
         c.   Such graded or backfilled area shall be surfaced with soil of a
quality at least equal to the topsoil of land areas immediately surrounding,
and to a depth of at least three inches (3").
         d.   Such topsoil as required by subsection F.4.c. of this Section
shall be planted with trees, shrubs, legumes, or grasses upon the parts of such
area where revegetation is possible.
         e.   New slopes on boundary areas shall not be steeper than four feet
(4') horizontal to one foot (1') vertical.
   G.   Noise and Air Pollution; Vibrations:
      1.   The operator shall maintain and operate all equipment in such a
manner as to minimize noise and air pollution. Any emission which can cause any
damage to health, animals or vegetation or other forms of property or which can
cause any excessive soiling at any point or any emission of any solid or liquid
particles in concentrations exceeding State Pollution Control Agency air
quality regulations shall be prohibited. No noise resulting from the excavation
shall exceed the most current state pollution agency noise control regulations
or Title 4, Chapter 7 of this Code, whichever is the more restrictive. These
regulations shall not apply to incidental traffic or maintenance operations.
      2.   Dust shall be controlled by watering as necessary.
      3.   Any vibration resulting in any combination of amplitude and
frequencies beyond the “safe” range of the most current standards of the United
States Bureau of Mines for any structure shall be prohibited.
   H.   Hours of Operation: Hours of operation shall be as follows:
      1.   Excavation and processing may be conducted only between the hours of
six o’clock (6:00) A.M. and ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. in areas zoned I-
3 commercial excavation district or as otherwise allowed by the City Council of
a license, application or permit approval. In all other districts, hours of
operation shall be limited to the hours in Section
4-7-8 of this Code.
      2.   Loading of barges, maintenance and repair of plants and equipment
may be conducted twenty-four (24) hours a day in areas zoned I-3 commercial
excavation district. In all other districts, such activities shall be limited
to the hours in Section
4-7-8 of this Code.
      3.   Operation of trucks may be conducted only between the hours of seven
o’clock (7:00) A.M. and six o’clock (6:00) P.M. weekdays. No truck loading is
permitted on Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays unless otherwise allowed by
the City Council of a license, application or permit approval.
      4.   Hauling by truck of excavation materials from mines located in the
City may be conducted only between the hours of seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. and
six o’clock (6:00) P.M. weekdays. No truck hauling on public roads within the
City is permitted on Saturdays, Sundays or legal holidays unless otherwise
allowed by the City Council of a license, application or permit approval.
      5.   The foregoing hours and days of operation may be modified by the
City Administrator in case of public emergency upon request of the permit
operator or as allowed by City Council of a license, application or permit
approval.
   I.   Traffic Hazards: Flag persons may be required where a traffic hazard
may exist as a condition of the annual mining permit.
   J.   Restoration of Excavated Area: Upon termination of the operation, any
pit or excavation created shall be regraded or modified according to the
reclamation plan.
   K.   Termination or Abandonment of Operation: Within a period of three (3)
months after the termination of a sand and gravel operation, or within three
(3) months after abandonment of such operation, or within three (3) months
after the expiration of a sand and gravel permit, the operator or owner shall
dismantle or remove buildings and structures incidental to such operation and
shall grade the site to the specifications of the final grade plan as well as
complete all reclamation on the site as proposed by the reclamation plan.
§ 3-9-9: INSPECTIONS; REMEDIES:
   Each excavation site shall be inspected by the City a minimum of two (2)
times annually. The operator shall permit inspection of the mining site and
operations by the City staff or its representative at any time during the hours
of permitted operation. The operators or owners of any operation in violation
of the requirements of this Chapter shall remedy such violations within the
time specified by written notice from the City.
§ 3-9-10: VARIANCES:
   The standards of this Chapter may be varied by the City Council upon a
finding that such variance will be consistent with the purpose and intent of
the comprehensive plan, critical area plan and reclamation plan, and will not
cause any adverse impact on the public health, safety, or general welfare.
CHAPTER 10: FIREWORKS
Section
3-10-1: Retail Sale of Fireworks
3-10-2: Statutes Incorporated
3-10-3: Definition
3-10-4: License Provisions
3-10-5: Conditions of License
3-10-6: Revocation of License
§ 3-10-1: RETAIL SALE OF FIREWORKS:
   It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, expose for sale, or
sell at retail or wholesale any consumer fireworks in the City without first
receiving a license for the sale of consumer fireworks issued by the City in
accordance with City Code Section
3-1-2.
§ 3-10-2: STATUTES INCORPORATED:
   The provisions of Minnesota Statutes Sections 624.20 through 624.25, with
reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation, provisions
relating to possession and sales, and all other matters pertaining to
fireworks, are hereby adopted by reference and are made a part of this Chapter
as if set out in full.
§ 3-10-3: DEFINITION:
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS: Wire or wood sparklers of not more than one hundred
grams (100 g) of mixture per item, other sparkling items which are nonexplosive
and nonaerial and contain seventy-five grams (75 g) or less of chemical mixture
per tube or a total of five hundred grams (500 g) or less of multiple tubes,
snakes and glowworms, smoke devices, or trick noisemakers which include paper
streamers, party poppers, string poppers, snappers, and drop pops, each
consisting of not more than twenty-five hundredths (0.25) grain of explosive
mixture.
§ 3-10-4: LICENSE PROVISIONS:
   License Application: The applicant shall completely fill out and submit an
application form for a consumer fireworks license on forms provided by the City
in accordance with the provisions of City Code Section
3-1-2.
§ 3-10-5: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   In addition to the requirements of Title 3, Chapter 1 of the City Code, a
license to sell consumer fireworks shall be subject to the following
conditions:
   A.   The license is nontransferable, either to a different person or
location.
   B.   Storage of consumer fireworks on the licensed premises must comply with
the Minnesota State Fire Code.
   C.   The premises must comply with the Minnesota State Building Code and
Minnesota State Fire Code.
   D.   The retail sales of consumer fireworks must be allowed by the zoning
district and comply with all zoning ordinance requirements including signage.
   E.   Consumer fireworks shall not be sold to a person under the age of
eighteen (18). The age of the purchaser must be verified by photographic
identification.
§ 3-10-6: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   Following the procedures of City Code Section
3-1-11, the City may revoke a license for violation of this Chapter or State
law concerning the sale, use, or possession of fireworks.
CHAPTER 11: LIQUOR CONTROL
Section
3-11-1: Adoption of State Law by Reference
3-11-2: License/Permit Required
3-11-3: Places Ineligible
3-11-4: Types of Licenses and Permits
3-11-5: License Application
3-11-6: License Fees
3-11-7: Financial Responsibility
3-11-8: Investigations
3-11-9: Issuance of License
3-11-10: License Term
3-11-11: General Conditions of a License
3-11-12: Minors and Other Prohibited Persons
3-11-13: License Penalties
§ 3-11-1: ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE:
   The provisions of Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 340A, with reference to the
definition of terms, conditions of operation, restrictions on consumption,
provisions related to sales, hours of sale, and all other matters pertaining to
the retail sale, distribution, and consumption of alcoholic beverages are
hereby adopted by reference and are made a part of this Chapter as if set out
in full.
§ 3-11-2: LICENSE/PERMIT REQUIRED:
   Except as provided in this Chapter, no person or organization may directly
or indirectly, on any pretense or by any device, manufacture, import, sell,
barter, exchange, dispose of, keep for sale, charge for possession, or
otherwise dispose of alcoholic beverages as part of a commercial transaction
without having obtained the appropriate license from the City pursuant to Title
3, Chapter 1 of the City Code.
§ 3-11-3: PLACES INELIGIBLE:
   A.   No license may be issued for any place or any business ineligible for a
license under state law.
   B.   No license may be granted for operation on any premises on which taxes,
assessments or other financial claims are delinquent and unpaid. No application
shall be considered until such delinquencies are paid in full.
   C.   No on-sale intoxicating liquor license, such as is issued to bars and
restaurants, except when it is a temporary license, shall be granted for
premises located within three hundred feet (300') of any school or church. The
distance is to be measured in a straight line from the structure in which the
business to be licensed is located to the nearest point of the church or school
building. The construction of a school or church within the prohibited area
after an initial application has been granted shall not, in and of itself,
render such premises ineligible for renewal of the license. The three-hundred
foot (300') distance may be reduced by Council resolution in the event a
highway, railroad, watercourse, large structure or other physical barrier
separates the premises to be licensed from the school or church in such manner
as to substantially reduce or eliminate noise or other objectionable elements.
   D.   No off-sale intoxicating liquor license, such as is issued to exclusive
liquor stores, shall be granted for premises located within one thousand feet
(1,000') of another licensed off-sale intoxicating liquor premises, such as
another exclusive liquor store, as measured between the nearest building walls
of the establishments.
   E.   No license shall be granted for premises that meet the definition of an
“adult establishment” or “adult use”, pursuant to Title 3, Chapter 14 of this
Code.
§ 3-11-4: TYPES OF LICENSES AND PERMITS:
   A.   3.2 Percent Malt Liquor Licenses: The City Council may issue the
following types of 3.2 percent malt liquor licenses:
      1.   On-Sale 3.2 Percent Malt Liquor License: On-sale 3.2 percent malt
liquor licenses obtained pursuant to this Chapter will permit the licensee to
sell 3.2 percent malt liquors for consumption on the licensed premises and will
be issued only to restaurants, hotels, bona fide clubs and establishments used
exclusively for the sale of 3.2 percent malt liquors with the incidental sale
of tobacco and soft drinks.
      2.   Off-Sale 3.2 Percent Malt Liquor License: Off-sale 3.2 percent malt
liquor licenses obtained pursuant to this Chapter will permit the licensee to
sell 3.2 percent malt liquors in original packages for consumption off the
premises only.
      3.   Off-Sale Brewpub 3.2 Percent Malt Liquor License: Off-sale brewpub
3.2 percent malt liquor licenses may be issued only to a brewer who holds a
state license issued under Minnesota Statutes Section 340A.301, and a City
issued on-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor license for a restaurant operated in the
place of manufacture. The off-sale brewpub 3.2 percent malt liquor license
authorizes the off-sale of 3.2 percent malt liquor produced and packaged on the
premises. The license is subject to the requirements of this Chapter and
Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 340A.
      4.   Off-Sale Small Brewer 3.2 Percent Malt Liquor License: Off-sale
small brewer 3.2 percent malt liquor licenses may be issued only to a brewer
who holds a brewer license issued by the State pursuant to Minnesota Statutes
Section 340A.301. The license authorizes the brewer to sell, at off-sale, 3.2
percent malt liquor that has been produced and packaged by the brewer at its
licensed premises in sixty-four (64) ounce containers commonly known as
“growlers” or in seven hundred fifty milliliter (750 ml) bottles. The license
is subject to the requirements of this Chapter and Minnesota Statutes, Chapter
340A.
      5.   Temporary Licenses:
         a.   A temporary on-sale license for 3.2 percent malt liquor may be
issued to a club or charitable, religious or nonprofit organization subject to
the following:
            (1)   Submission of a completed application to the City Clerk at
least sixty (60) days in advance of the event for which the license is
requested;
            (2)   Submission of a list of responsible persons who may be
contacted in case of any emergency. Those persons must be residents of the Twin
Cities metropolitan area as defined by Minnesota Statutes Section 473.121,
subdivision 2. At least one (1) of the listed persons must be present on the
licensed premises during all hours of sale;
            (3)   Submission of other information as may be required by the
City Council.
         b.   The license may be issued for a specified period of time, not to
exceed three (3) consecutive days.
         c.   The license may be issued for an event to take place on public
property, including in or near any school building.
         d.   The application may include multiple dates for separate events to
be held by the same organization within a calendar year.
      6.   Consumption and Display Permit: A consumption and display permit may
be issued to an organization that complies with the requirements of Minnesota
Statutes Section 340A.414, and that has obtained a permit from the Commissioner
of Public Safety.
      7.   Exemptions: Any person holding an on-sale intoxicating liquor
license may sell 3.2 percent malt beverages at on-sale without obtaining a
license under this Chapter. Any person holding an off-sale intoxicating liquor
license may sell 3.2 percent malt beverages at off-sale without obtaining a
license under this Chapter.
   B.   Intoxicating Liquor Licenses: The City Council may grant the following
types of intoxicating liquor licenses:
      1.   On-Sale:
         a.   On-Sale Intoxicating License: On-sale intoxicating licenses may
be issued to hotels, clubs, bowling centers, theaters, convention centers and
congressionally chartered veterans’ organizations and restaurants with the
following conditions:
            (1)   A license may be issued to clubs and congressionally
chartered veterans’ organizations if they have been in existence for at least
three (3) years and liquor sales will only be to members and bona fide guests.
An unlimited number of licenses may be issued to these types of clubs and
organizations.
            (2)   A restaurant that holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor
license may also operate under a caterer’s permit issued by the Minnesota
Commissioner of Public Safety, if the operation is in accordance with State
law.
         b.   On-Sale Wine License: On-sale wine licenses may be issued to
restaurants for the sale of wine not exceeding twenty-four percent (24%)
alcohol by volume and for consumption on the licensed premises only in
conjunction with the sale of food. An on-sale wine license may only be issued
to a restaurant that has seating for at least twenty-five (25) guests at one
(1) time, to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet the criteria in
Minnesota Statutes Section 340A.4011, subdivision 1, and to theaters that meet
the criteria of Minnesota Statutes Section 340A.404, subdivision 1(b). The
holder of an on-sale wine license issued under this Chapter is authorized to
sell intoxicating malt liquor on-sale without an additional license, provided:
            (1)   The licensee must hold an on-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor on-
sale license issued pursuant to this Chapter; and
            (2)   The licensee affirmatively states in its application for an
on-sale wine license that the licensee intends to make sales of intoxicating
malt liquor under this provision, and the license approving the on-sale wine
license shall refer to allowing sales of on-sale wine and intoxicating malt
liquor.
         c.   On-Sale Brewer Taproom License: On-sale brewer taproom licenses
may be issued only to the holder of a brewer’s license issued by the State and
in accordance with Minnesota Statutes Section 340A.26.
         d.   On-Sale Brewpub License: On-sale brewpub licenses may be issued
only to a brewpub in accordance with Minnesota Statutes Section 340A.24.
         e.   On-Sale Microdistillery Cocktail Room License: On-sale
microdistillery cocktail room licenses may be issued only to the holder of a
microdistillery license issued by the State of Minnesota and in accordance with
Minnesota Statutes Section 340A.22.
         f.   On-Sale Culinary Class License: On-sale culinary class license
may be issued to a business establishment that is not otherwise eligible for an
on-sale intoxicating liquor license and that, as part of its business, conducts
culinary or cooking classes for which payment is made by each participant or
advance reservation required. The license authorizes the licensee to furnish to
each participant in each class, at no additional cost to the participant, up to
a maximum of six (6) ounces of wine or twelve (12) ounces of intoxicating malt
liquor, during and as part of the class, for consumption on the licensed
premises only. All provisions of this Chapter that apply to on-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses apply to licenses issued under this subsection,
except Section
3-11-7 of this Chapter and other provisions inconsistent with this subsection.
      2.   Off-Sale:
         a.   Off-Sale Intoxicating License: Off-sale intoxicating licenses may
be issued only to exclusive liquor stores and will permit “off-sales” of
intoxicating liquor and 3.2 percent malt liquor. Incidental sales of ice, soft
drinks, and all forms of tobacco are permitted.
         b.   Off-Sale Brewpub Malt Liquor License: Off-sale brewpub malt
liquor licenses may be issued only to the holder of an on-sale brewpub license,
in accordance with Minnesota Statutes Section 340A.24. The off-sale brewpub
malt liquor license authorizes the off-sale of malt liquor produced and
packaged on the premises.
         c.   Off-Sale Small Brewer Malt Liquor License: Off-sale small brewer
malt liquor licenses may be issued only to a brewer who holds a brewer license
issued by the Minnesota Commissioner of Public Safety, in accordance with
Minnesota Statutes Section 340A.28. The license authorizes the brewer to sell,
at off-sale, malt liquor that has been produced and packaged by the brewer at
its licensed premises in sixty-four (64) ounce containers commonly known as
“growlers” or in seven hundred fifty milliliter (750 ml) bottles.
         d.   Off-Sale Microdistillery License: Off-sale microdistillery
licenses may be issued only to a microdistillery in accordance with Minnesota
Statutes Section 340A.22. The license authorizes the microdistillery to sell,
at off-sale, one (1) 750-milliliter bottle per customer per day of product
manufactured on-site, subject to the requirements of Minnesota Statutes Section
340A.22.
      3.   Sunday Sales: A license for Sunday sales at on-sale may be issued
only to a hotel or restaurant to which an “on-sale” license has been issued.
Sunday off-sales may only be made during the hours permitted for “Sunday sales”
pursuant to Minnesota Statutes Section 340A.504, subdivision 3. No Sunday sales
license is needed for “on-sale wine” licenses. Except in the case of “on-sale
wine” licenses, no on-sale Sunday sales of intoxicating liquor may be made
without a license for Sunday sales.
      4.   Consumption and Display Permit: A consumption and display permit may
be issued to an organization that complies with the requirements of Minnesota
Statutes Section 340A.414, and that has obtained a permit from the Commissioner
of Public Safety.
      5.   Temporary Licenses:
         a.   Temporary On-Sale License: Temporary on-sale licenses may be
issued only to: (1) a club or charitable, religious, or other nonprofit
organization that has been in existence for at least three (3) years or (2) a
brewer who manufactures fewer than three thousand five hundred (3,500) barrels
of malt liquor in a year, in connection with a social event sponsored by the
organization holding the temporary license. The licenses are subject to the
same conditions listed in subsection A.5 of this Chapter except that the time
period may not exceed four (4) consecutive days. The insurance requirements of
Minnesota Statutes Section 340A.409, subdivisions 1 through 3a, apply to a
temporary license issued to a brewer under this subsection. The number of
temporary licenses issued may not exceed the number of temporary licenses
established by State law.
         b.   Temporary Consumption and Display Permits: Temporary consumption
and display permits may be issued for one (1) day to nonprofit organizations in
conjunction with social events sponsored by the organization in the City. No
more than ten (10) temporary permits may be issued in one (1) year. The permits
are subject to the same conditions listed in subsection A.5 of this Chapter.
         c.   Temporary Off-Sale Wine License: Temporary off-sale wine licenses
may be issued to allow for the off-sale of vintage wine at an auction. The wine
must be at least five (5) years old and of a brand and vintage that is not
commonly being offered for sale by any wholesaler in Minnesota. No more than
six hundred (600) cases of wine may be sold at any auction, and each license
may not exceed three (3) consecutive days.
         d.   Microdistillery Temporary On-Sale Intoxicating Liquor License:
Microdistillery temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued to
the holder of a state microdistillery license. A microdistillery temporary on-
sale intoxicating liquor license authorizes the on-sale of intoxicating liquor
in connection with a social event within the City sponsored by the
microdistillery.
         e.   The license may be issued for an event to take place on public
property, including in or near any school building.
      6.   Special Provisions; Sports Facilities, Cultural Facilities,
Community Festivals:
         a.   Sports Facility or Cultural Facility: A holder of an on-sale
intoxicating liquor license issued by the City may obtain a temporary license
to dispense intoxicating liquor at a convention, banquet, conference, event,
meeting or social affair conducted on the premises of a sports facility or
cultural facility owned by the City, subject to the limitations in Minnesota
Statutes Section 340A.404, subdivision 4a.
         b.   Community Festival: A holder of an on-sale intoxicating liquor
license issued by the City may obtain a temporary license to dispense
intoxicating liquor off premises at a community festival held within the City.
The area for the dispensing and consumption of intoxicating liquor must be
compact and contiguous, with proper separation to control ingress and egress.
The licensee must demonstrate that it has liability insurance as prescribed by
Minnesota Statutes Section 340A.409, to cover the event.
         c.   Wine Festival License: With the approval of the Commissioner of
Public Safety, the City may issue a temporary license to a bona fide
association of owners and operators of wineries sponsoring an annual festival
to showcase wines produced by members of the association. The temporary license
shall comply with the requirements of Minnesota Statutes Section 340A.4175.
§ 3-11-5: LICENSE APPLICATION:
   A.   Initial Application: Upon submission of an initial application or upon
any change of ownership or business control of the licensed premises, every
person or entity desiring a liquor license or permit under this Chapter must
file with the City Clerk a written application in the form prescribed and
approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety of the State of Minnesota and as
outlined in Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 340A. In addition to the information
required on the application form and information required by any other officer
or office of the State of Minnesota, the application made to the City must
include the information required under City Code Section
3-1-2.
   B.   License Renewal: The application for renewal of an existing license
must be made before the date of the expiration of the license in accordance
with City Code Section
3-1-4.
   C.   Amendment for Enlargement, Alteration or Extension: The application for
an amendment of an existing license must be made prior to any enlargement,
alteration, or extension of the licensed premises in accordance with Title 3,
Chapter 1 of the City Code. The applicant must provide updated plans and sign a
written declaration under penalty of perjury, that the updated information is
true.
§ 3-11-6: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Fees Established: No license or other fee established by the City shall
exceed any limit established by Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 340A, for a liquor
license.
   B.   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the City. If the application is denied or withdrawn, the license fee
shall be returned to the applicant, except when denial is for a willful
misstatement in the license application.
   C.   Proration of Fees; Refunds for Issued License; Reductions for License
Fees:
      1.   The fee for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a monthly basis. On-sale
3.2 percent malt liquor, on-sale club, on-sale Sunday, on-sale wine, and off-
sale licenses shall be prorated on a quarterly basis.
      2.   Fee Reduction for Off-Sale Intoxicating Liquor Licenses: Off-sale
intoxicating liquor licensees may request a reduction in their annual license
fee by the amount specified in Minnesota Statutes Section 340A.408 if the
licensee meets all of the conditions outlined in Minnesota Statutes, Chapter
340A and proof of compliance is provided to the City at the time the
application is made to the City.
§ 3-11-7: FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   Licensee must demonstrate proof of financial responsibility with regard to
liability imposed by Minnesota Statutes Section 340A.409, to the City Clerk at
the time of application for a new license or renewal of the existing license.
The proof must show that all coverage meets or exceeds the requirements of
Minnesota Statutes Section 340A.409 and must cover the entire license period or
indicate that coverage is continuous until canceled. If a new certificate of
insurance is not filed with the City Clerk during the applicable period after
notice of cancellation, the license will be suspended until a new certificate
of insurance is filed with the City Clerk and the Minnesota Commissioner of
Public Safety. Operation of a business which is required to be licensed under
this Chapter without having on file with the City at all times effective proof
of financial responsibility as defined in Minnesota Statutes Section 340A.409,
shall be grounds for revocation of the license.
§ 3-11-8: INVESTIGATIONS:
   A.   Initial and Renewal Applications: All initial and renewal applications
for licenses issued under this Chapter shall be referred to the Director of
Public Safety, and to such other City departments as the City Council shall
deem necessary, for verification and investigation of the facts set forth in
the application. The investigation shall include, but is not limited to, a
criminal history records check and background investigation conducted pursuant
to City Code Sections
1-6-2 and
3-1-2.B and Minnesota Statutes Section 340A.402, subdivision 2. The City
Council may order and conduct such additional investigations as it deems
necessary.
   B.   Fees: Each initial application for a liquor license, except for
temporary licenses, shall be accompanied by the nonrefundable investigation fee
established in City Code Section
3-1-2.B. No investigation fee is required for renewal applications.
§ 3-11-9: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Granting or Denial of Permit: The City Council, in its sound
discretion, shall take action on each new application for any license or permit
in accordance with City Code Section
3-1-11.
   B.   Restrictions on Issuance of License:
      1.   Building to be Ready for Occupancy: Where a license is granted for
premises where the building is under construction or otherwise not ready for
occupancy, the City Clerk shall not issue the license until notified by the
City’s Building Official that the building is ready for occupancy.
      2.   State Approval of Licenses and Permits: Licenses and permits that
are approved by the City Council but which are issued by or require approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety shall not be effective until approved by the
Commissioner.
§ 3-11-10: LICENSE TERM:
   The term of all liquor licenses shall be in accordance with City Code
Section
3-1-6, except temporary licenses which expire according to their express terms.
Consumption and display permits issued by the Commissioner of Public Safety,
and the accompanying City consent to the permit, shall expire on March 31 of
each year.
§ 3-11-11: GENERAL CONDITIONS OF A LICENSE:
   A.   Generally: Every license granted under this Chapter is subject to the
conditions in this subsection, all other provisions of this Chapter, and of any
other applicable regulations, ordinance or State law.
   B.   Maintenance of Peace: Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of
their place of business and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act
of any employee of the licensed premises authorized to sell intoxicating liquor
is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee shall be liable for
all penalties provided by this Chapter and the law equally with the employee,
except criminal penalties.
   C.   Possession of Federal Stamps: No licensee may possess a federal
wholesale liquor dealer’s special tax stamp or a federal gambling stamp.
   D.   Consumption on Premises: A person must not consume any intoxicating or
3.2 percent malt liquor on any licensed premises more than thirty (30) minutes
following the time established by law for cessation of the sale of liquor. No
person, except an employee of the licensed establishment, may remain on the
premises or site more than thirty (30) minutes following the time established
by law for cessation of the sale of liquor.
   E.   Removal of Containers: No licensee may permit any glass, bottle, or
other container containing intoxicating liquor in any quantity to remain upon
any table, bar, stool, or other place where customers are served, more than
thirty (30) minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur, except as
authorized by Minnesota Statutes Section 340A.404, subdivision 11, which allows
the removal of certain wine at a restaurant with an on-sale intoxicating liquor
or wine license.
   F.   Death of Licensee: In the event of the death of a person holding a
license, the personal representative of that person is allowed to continue to
operate the business within the terms of the license for a period not to exceed
ninety (90) days after the death of the licensee.
   G.   Hours and Days: A licensee must not sell or permit the consumption of
alcoholic beverages except in compliance with the hours and days established in
Minnesota Statutes Section 340A.504.
   H.   Consumption Outside Licensed Premises: A person must not possess open
containers of alcoholic beverages or consume alcoholic beverages on the
premises under the licensee’s control outside of the licensed structure or in
any area of the licensed premises that was not designated for these activities
in the license application.
   I.   Mandatory Training Seminars:
      1.   Generally: On an annual basis, each licensee must have at least one
(1) representative attend a liquor license training seminar approved by the
City. The representative need not be the same person each time but must hold a
position of responsibility in either the ownership or management of the
license. The licensee must provide the City with proof of completion of the
training seminar within ten (10) days of completion.
      2.   New Licensees: For twelve (12) months after initial issuance of a
license, each new licensee must have a City approved vendor train all managers
and employees who serve alcoholic beverages, within sixty (60) days after hire.
The training must include the laws pertaining to the sale of alcohol, the rules
for identification checks, and the responsibilities of establishments serving
intoxicating liquors. An owner who works at the establishment is considered a
manager for this requirement.
   J.   Change in Managers: For each new manager or assistant manager employed
after the license is issued, each licensee must notify the City Clerk within
ten (10) days after any new manager or assistant manager begins employment.
This notification must include the information required in City Code Section
3-1-2. Failure to provide complete and timely information will subject the
licensee to the penalties provided in this Code, including potential denial of
a renewed license. The Director of Public Safety shall cause an investigation
of the new managers and may reject the employment of these personnel by notice
to the licensee in writing. The licensee may appear at the hearing regarding
this decision to the City Council in accordance with the procedures in City
Code Section
3-1-11. A failure to request a hearing in front of City Council waives the
licensee’s ability to contest the Director of Public Safety’s decision. After
the City’s final decision on a new manager, no manager who has been rejected
may operate in that capacity upon the licensed premises.
   K.   Outdoor Seating Area: Each outdoor seating area that is part of the
licensed premises must be surrounded by a physical barrier that prevents access
to the area except through the licensed building.
   L.   Gambling:
      1.   Each licensee shall be responsible to verify a gambling licensee’s
valid license or permit before allowing any lawful gambling on the premises;
the licensee shall be responsible to see that lawful gambling is conducted in
accordance with all applicable laws.
      2.   The licensee may only permit lawful gambling on the licensed
premises when such activity is licensed by the state pursuant to Minnesota
Statutes, Chapter 349, or permitted by the City and is conducted pursuant to
the regulations contained in this Code. No other gambling shall be permitted on
premises licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages.
   M.   Unobstructed View: All sales shall be made in full view of the public
inside the licensed premises, and the view shall be unobstructed by screens,
curtains, stalls, partitions or other devices, but partitions, subdivisions or
panels not higher than forty-eight inches (48") shall be permitted.
   N.   Sales in Hotel Guestrooms: No sale of alcoholic beverages shall be made
to or in guestrooms of hotels, unless the rules of the hotel provide for the
service of meals in guestrooms, unless the sale of such alcoholic beverages is
made in the manner in which on-sales are required to be made, unless such sale
accompanies and is incident to the regular source of meals to guests therein,
and unless the rules of such hotel and the description, location and number of
such guestrooms are fully set out in the application for a license.
§ 3-11-12: MINORS AND OTHER PROHIBITED PERSONS:
   A.   A person must not sell, give, barter, furnish, deliver, or dispose of,
in any manner, either directly or indirectly, any liquor in any quantity, for
any purpose to any person under the age of twenty-one (21), or to an
intoxicated person. The person taking an order in a licensed establishment has
the responsibility for determining if the person placing the order is
prohibited from receiving liquor under this Section. If liquor is provided in
violation of this Section, the person who takes an order from a prohibited
person and does not refuse service to the prohibited person is guilty of a
misdemeanor, whether or not the person taking the order actually delivered the
liquor.
   B.   A person under the age of twenty-one (21) must not enter any premises
licensed for the retail sale of liquor for the purpose of purchasing or having
served or delivered to them any liquor or to consume any liquor, purchase or
attempt to purchase or have another purchase for them, any liquor.
   C.   A person must not misrepresent or mistake their age or identity, or the
age or identity of any other person for the purpose of inducing any licensee or
any employee of any licensee, to sell, serve or deliver any liquor to a person
under the age of twenty-one (21).
   D.   A person under the age of twenty-one (21) must not have in their
possession any liquor, with intent to consume the same at a place other than
the household of their parent or guardian. Possession of liquor by a person
under the age of twenty-one (21) at a place other than the household of their
parent or guardian is prima facie evidence of intent to consume the same at a
place other than the household of their parent or guardian.
   E.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) shall sell or serve alcoholic
beverages in any licensed premises.
§ 3-11-13: LICENSE PENALTIES:
   A.   Authorization: Minnesota Statutes Section 340A.415, authorizes a City
Council to impose penalties upon the holder of a liquor license or permit who
has failed to comply with an applicable statute or ordinance.
   B.   Hearing: Before penalties can be imposed, the City Council or its
designee must hold a hearing. At the hearing, the licensee has the right to be
represented by counsel, the right to respond to the charges, the right to
present evidence through witnesses under oath, and the right to confront and
cross examine witnesses under oath. At least twenty (20) days’ written notice
of the time and place of the hearing must be provided to the licensee and must
state the grounds for the action proposed to be taken. The notice must be
served by certified mail to the address listed on the license application or
where the business activity is conducted. Any actions taken following the
hearing shall be adopted by resolution with findings. In order to suspend or
revoke the license or impose financial civil penalties on the licensee, the
City Council must find that the license or permit holder has committed one (1)
or more of the following violations:
      1.   Sold alcoholic beverages to another retail licensee for the purpose
of resale;
      2.   Purchased alcoholic beverages from another retail licensee for the
purpose of resale;
      3.   Conducted or permitted the conduct of gambling on the licensed
premises in violation of the law; or
      4.   Failed to comply with an applicable statute, rule, or ordinance
relating to alcoholic beverages.
   C.   Penalties: The penalties may include revocation of the license or
permit, suspension of the license or permit for up to sixty (60) days, the
imposition of a civil penalty of up to two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for
each violation, or any combination of these sanctions. No suspension or
revocation may take effect until the license or permit holder has been given an
opportunity for a hearing. Upon a finding that the license holder or permit
holder has committed one (1) of the above mentioned violations, the City
Council shall impose a liquor license civil penalty pursuant to the following
guidelines:
      1.   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale of
alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, sale of intoxicating
liquor whether the only license is for 3.2 percent malt liquor, the license
shall be revoked.
      2.   After a hearing, if the City Council finds that the licensee has
committed a violation of subsection B of this Section, the Council shall impose
at least the minimum fines and suspensions pursuant to the City’s fee
ordinance.
      3.   The City Council shall select the day or days during which the
license will be suspended.
      4.   Lapse or cancellation of required liquor liability insurance or
bond, or withdrawal of a required deposit of cash or securities pursuant to
Minnesota Statutes Section 340A.409, shall result in an immediate suspension of
any license issued under this Chapter or State law without further action of
the City Council. Notice of cancellation, lapse of a current liquor liability
policy or bond, or withdrawal of deposited cash or securities shall also
constitute notice to the licensee of the impending suspension of the license.
The holder of a license who has received notice of lapse or cancellation of
required insurance or bond, or withdrawal of a required deposit, or of
suspension or revocation of a license, may request a hearing thereon, and if
such a request is made in writing to the City Clerk, a hearing before the City
Council shall be held at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the City,
which in no case shall it be longer than fifteen (15) days after the City Clerk
has received the notice requesting the hearing. Any suspension under this
subsection shall continue until the City Council determines that the financial
responsibility requirements of state law and this Chapter have again been met,
regardless of any request for hearing.
   D.   Decision Final: The decision by the City Council or its designee
following a hearing is final.
CHAPTER 12: MOBILE FOOD UNITS
Section
3-12-1: Purpose
3-12-2: Definition
3-12-3: Requirements
3-12-4: Locations
3-12-5: Performance Standards
3-12-6: Inspections; Enforcement
§ 3-12-1: PURPOSE:
   This Chapter is intended to describe the requirements for an establishment
preparing and serving food from a self-contained readily moveable vehicle in
the City, and to regulate the conditions from which the establishment operates
within the City for the promotion of business within the City, and for the
protection of customers and the general public. All mobile food units must
comply with this chapter in order to operate within the City.
§ 3-12-2: DEFINITION:
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   MOBILE FOOD UNIT:
   A.    A self-contained food service operation, located in a readily movable
motorized wheeled or towed vehicle that is readily movable without
disassembling, and that is used to store, prepare, display, or serve food
intended for individual portion service; or
   B.   A mobile food unit as defined in Minnesota Statutes Section 157.15,
subdivision 9.
§ 3-12-3: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License: The mobile food unit operator must be licensed by the
Minnesota Department of Health, Minnesota Department of Agriculture, and/or
Washington County Department of Public Health and Environment as required under
Minnesota State law. A mobile food unit operator must also be licensed by the
City. If all requirements of this section are met, the City Clerk shall
administratively issue the license. If all requirements are not met, the
license shall be denied.
   B.   Fire Code: The mobile food unit must meet State Fire Code requirements.
   C.   Insurance: The mobile food unit operator must comply with the insurance
provisions of City Code Section
3-1-2.A.5.
   D.   Term: The applicant may apply for a daily license or an annual license,
however a daily license shall not be converted to an annual license. If a
licensee had approval for a daily license and desires to have an annual license
within the same year, no new application shall be required, however, the
licensee must pay the full annual license fee and shall not be given credit for
any daily license fees paid.
   E.   Posting: The license must be clearly posted on the mobile food unit.
§ 3-12-4: LOCATIONS:
   A.   Allowed Locations: A mobile food unit may only operate in the locations
and under the conditions set forth in this Section:
      1.   With the written consent of the property owner, a mobile food unit
may operate in an industrial or commercial zoning district.
      2.   With the written consent of the property owner, a mobile food unit
may operate in a residential zoning district if on private property for
catering purposes (such as a private graduation party or wedding) and not open
for sales to the general public.
      3.   A mobile food unit may operate in the right-of-way immediately
adjacent to a consenting property owner noted in this section, as long as it
does not create a public safety hazard.
      4.   A mobile food unit may operate at a government-owned property if
there is permission of the government entity or agency controlling that
property through a permit, agreement or other approval process.
   B.   Prohibited Locations: A mobile food unit may not operate in the
following locations:
      1.   On any street posted with no parking signs or on any street with a
posted speed limit greater than thirty (30) miles per hour, unless it is a
street adjacent to government-owned property and permission has been granted,
as provided in Section
3-12-4.A.4.
      2.   At any location that may cause a safety hazard for other vehicles,
pedestrians, or the general public.
§ 3-12-5: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   A mobile food unit owner/operator is subject to the following
performance standards:
      1.   Mobile food units may only conduct sales between seven o’clock (7:
00) A.M. and eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M.
      2.   Waste generated by the mobile food unit must be transported out of
the City and disposed of in accordance with all Federal, State, and local
regulations. Grey water may not be drained into City stormwater drains.
      3.   The owner/operator of the mobile food unit shall be responsible for
the conduct of their employees and agents while operating a mobile food unit.
      4.   A mobile food unit is not required to obtain a sign permit from the
City. However, no additional signage is permitted beyond that which is on the
mobile food unit unless it meets the following requirements:
         a.   One (1) single sandwich board style sign is permitted per mobile
food unit;
         b.   The maximum sign size is eight (8) square feet;
         c.   The sign must be placed on the ground and within ten feet (10')
of the mobile food unit;
         d.   The sign must not be placed in a manner that hinders passage upon
any sidewalk;
         e.   The sign must not be placed within the improved travel surface of
the public right-of-way except with the express written permission of the City;
and
         f.   The sign cannot project from the mobile food unit or be mounted
to the roof of the mobile food unit.
      5.   Mobile food units and any associated equipment must be maintained
and operated in a safe, working condition at all times, and in a manner which
minimizes noise, exhaust and odors impacting the public and surrounding public
and private properties so as not to create a public or private nuisance. The
operation of any mobile food unit which fails to meet the standards of safety
established by the laws of the State or the City, operates in a manner that
creates a threat to the health, safety, and welfare of the public, or fails to
obey a lawful order of law enforcement or licensing personnel, shall be
discontinued until such time as the deficiency is eliminated.
§ 3-12-6: INSPECTIONS; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   A mobile food unit operating in the City is subject to inspection by
City officials.
   B.   A failure to meet any of the requirements outlined in this chapter
shall result in an immediate order to correct or cease operations by the Public
Safety Department.
CHAPTER 13: CANNABIS BUSINESS AND LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE BUSINESS
REGISTRATION
Section
3-13-1: Purpose
3-13-2: Definitions
3-13-3: Registration Required
3-13-4: Cap On Retail Registrations
3-13-5: Application Process
3-13-6: Fees
3-13-7: Approval
3-13-8: Exceptions
3-13-9: Renewal Process
3-13-10: Registration Term
3-13-11: Premises Covered By Registration
3-13-12: No Transfer Or Assignment Of Registration Or Location
3-13-13: Prohibited Acts
3-13-14: Compliance Checks And Inspections
§ 3-13-1: PURPOSE:
   The purpose of this chapter is to implement the provisions of Minnesota
Statutes Chapter 342, which authorizes cities to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare of residents by regulating cannabis and lower-potency hemp
edible businesses within its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1089, 12-4-2024)
§ 3-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
   Unless otherwise noted in this section, words, terms, and phrases found in
the definitions of Minnesota Statutes Section 342.01, or as amended, apply,
unless otherwise noted or except where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning. In addition, the following definitions apply:
   CANNABIS EVENT: A temporary event organized by a Cannabis Event Organizer at
which cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible products are displayed or sold by
vendors. Such cannabis event may be comprised solely of cannabis and lower-
potency hemp edible vendors or may be part of a larger event at which cannabis
and lower-potency hemp edible vendors intend to participate.
   OFFICE OF CANNABIS MANAGEMENT or OCM: Minnesota Office of Cannabis
Management.
   STATE LICENSE: An approved license issued by the Minnesota Office of
Cannabis Management to a cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible business.
(Ord. 1089, 12-4-2024)
§ 3-13-3: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   Before operating any business within the City that is licensed by OCM, the
business must register with the City. Applications shall be submitted on the
forms provided by the City Clerk, and all applicants shall comply with the
process below. All applications shall be considered and approved or denied by
the City Council.
(Ord. 1089, 12-4-2024)
§ 3-13-4: CAP ON RETAIL REGISTRATIONS:
   The City will not issue more than one (1) cannabis retail registration per
twelve thousand five hundred (12,500) residents, as determined by the most
recent state demographer's estimate. This cap on registrations does not apply
to a medical cannabis combination business or lower-potency hemp edible
retailer.
(Ord. 1089, 12-4-2024)
§ 3-13-5: APPLICATION PROCESS:
   All applicants must:
   A.   Complete the registration form provided by the City;
   B.   Pay the non-refundable registration fee for the type of license for
which the business is applying. For the first registration, the applicant shall
pay the initial registration fee and the first renewal registration fee; and
   C.   Provide a copy of all State Licenses issued by OCM.
(Ord. 1089, 12-4-2024)
§ 3-13-6: FEES:
   A.   No registration shall be issued under this chapter until the
appropriate fees are paid in full. The fee for a registration under this
chapter shall be set in the City's fee ordinance.
   B.   All fees are nonrefundable and shall not be pro-rated.
   C.   At the time of the initial registration, the initial registration fee
and the renewal fee shall be due and payable.
   D.   For the first renewal of the registration, no additional registration
fee shall be required. Beginning with the second renewal, and each subsequent
renewal thereafter, the renewal registration fee shall be paid at the time of
renewal.
(Ord. 1089, 12-4-2024)
§ 3-13-7: APPROVAL:
   The City Council must take action on each new and renewal registration
application within a reasonable time following receipt of the recommendation
from City staff regarding the application. At the City Council meeting at which
the application is considered, the registration will be approved by the City
Council if the applicant:
   A.   Is in compliance with this chapter and all zoning requirements;
   B.   Has paid the registration fee;
   C.   Is current on all property taxes and assessments;
   D.   Has a State License issued by OCM for the business being requested; and
   E.   Is current on payment of all other City fees and charges.
(Ord. 1089, 12-4-2024)
§ 3-13-8: EXCEPTIONS:
   No registration shall be required for an event organizer licensed by OCM who
intends to conduct a cannabis event within the City; however, each cannabis
event must be approved by the City Council through a cannabis event permit. The
Council may add reasonable conditions to the permit, may reduce the number of
days for the event, prohibit outdoor activity and/or restrict or prohibit on-
site consumption, in order to protect the public health, safety, and general
welfare. The event organizer shall submit an application as provided by the
City Clerk. The cannabis event permit application shall include:
   A.   A copy of the event organizer's license by OCM or a copy of the license
application submitted to OCM;
   B.   Payment of the permit and escrow fees;
   C.   The location, including address, property identification numbers and
ownership information of the property upon which the cannabis event is proposed
to take place, including a diagram of the physical layout of the event, all
entrances and exits that will be used by cannabis participants and vendors, the
consumption areas, retail sales areas, location where cannabis waste will be
stored and where any cannabis products will be stored. No cannabis event will
be permitted on public property or in a public park;
   D.   If the cannabis event is part of a larger event, signed consent from
the organization sponsoring the larger event;
   E.   A list of the names, number and type of cannabis businesses and lower-
potency hemp edible businesses that will sell cannabis and lower-potency hemp
products;
   F.   A sworn statement that the event organizer is responsible for and will
comply with the operational requirements imposed by the permit, state law,
including Minnesota Statutes Section 342.40 subd. 7 and any regulatory rules
applicable to the cannabis event;
   G.   The dates and hours of the cannabis event (may be up to four (4)
consecutive days);
   H.   A security plan that has been approved by the Director of Public
Safety, including the name of the contracted licensed security personnel that
complies with Minnesota Statutes Section 342.40 subd. 3;
   I.   If on-site consumption is proposed, a detailed plan for complying with
Minnesota Statutes Section 342.40 subd. 8 regarding such activity. The City
Council may approve or deny on-site consumption of cannabis as part of the
permit in its sole discretion, based on the circumstances of the specific
cannabis event requested. If approved, the event organizer shall provide of
copy of an insurance certificate for the cannabis event issued by an insurance
company authorized to do business in the State of Minnesota, with coverage of
at least fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) per person and one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per occurrence; and
   J.   Payment of an escrow fee for any expenses that may be incurred by the
city during the cannabis event. Any unused escrow will be returned to the
applicant following an accounting of expenses incurred by the City during the
cannabis event. The event organizer shall be responsible for any costs incurred
by the City that exceed the escrow amount.
(Ord. 1089, 12-4-2024)
§ 3-13-9: RENEWAL PROCESS:
   A.   Registration renewals are issued in the same manner and subject to the
same conditions as a new registration application. The business shall apply to
renew its registration on a form established by the City.
   B.   Before renewing a registration, the City may enter and inspect the
business to ensure that the business is in compliance with this chapter, the
zoning ordinance, and state laws.
(Ord. 1089, 12-4-2024)
§ 3-13-10: REGISTRATION TEAM:
   The registration term shall be consistent with and run concurrently with the
applicant's State License for commencement and expiration or termination. If
the State License is suspended, revoked or terminated, so shall the City's
registration of the business.
(Ord. 1089, 12-4-2024)
§ 3-13-11: PREMISES COVERED BY REGISTRATION:
   The registration for the cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible business is
only effective for the compact and contiguous space specified in the approved
registration application.
(Ord. 1089, 12-4-2024)
§ 3-13-12: NO TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT OF REGISTRATION OR LOCATION:
   A registered cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible business shall not
transfer or assign a registration to another person or entity or move to a
different location. A new owner or new location will require a new application
and payment of the appropriate registration fees.
(Ord. 1089, 12-4-2024)
§ 3-13-13: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   The owner or operator of a cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible business is
responsible for the conduct of their place of business and the conditions of
order in it. The act of an employee of the premises is deemed the act of the
owner or operator as well, and the owner or operator is responsible for all
penalties provided by this chapter equally with the employee.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, purchase, obtain or
otherwise provide any cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible product to any
person under the age of twenty-one (21), including cannabinoids derived from
hemp.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21) to
possess any cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible product. This chapter shall
not apply to persons under the age of twenty-one (21) lawfully involved in a
compliance check, including cannabinoids derived from hemp.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21) to
use or consume any cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible product unless it is
legally authorized medical cannabis.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21) to
attempt to disguise the person's true age by the use of a false form of
identification, whether the identification is that of another person or one in
which the age of the person has been modified or tampered with, to represent an
age older than the actual age of the person, in order to purchase any cannabis
or lower-potency hemp edible product.
   E.   No cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible product may be sold to an
obviously intoxicated person or a person under the influence of a controlled
substance.
   F.   No one under the age of twenty-one (21) shall sell cannabis.
   G.   Cannabis cannot be sold in vending machines, through a drive-through
window or as part of a home occupation.
   H.   On-site consumption is prohibited except for lower-potency edible
products that are consumed as a beverage.
   I.   It shall be unlawful to sell, purchase, obtain, possess or provide
cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible products with Delta-10 THC.
   J.   No cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible product shall be visible from
the exterior of the building.
   K.   No owner, operator or employee shall violate any federal law, state law
or City ordinance related to the operation of the cannabis or lower-potency
hemp edible business.
(Ord. 1089, 12-4-2024)
§ 3-13-14: COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS:
   All registered businesses must be open to inspection by the local law
enforcement or other authorized City official during regular business hours.
From time to time, but at least once per year, the City will conduct compliance
checks on retail businesses by engaging persons between the ages of seventeen
(17) and twenty-one (21) years, to enter the premises to attempt to purchase
products. Persons used for compliance checks are not guilty of the unlawful
purchase or attempted purchase, nor the unlawful possession of cannabis or
lower-potency hemp edible products when the items are obtained or attempted to
be obtained as a part of the compliance check. No person used in compliance
checks may attempt to use a false identification misrepresenting the person's
age, and all persons lawfully engaged in a compliance check may answer all
questions about the person's age and shall produce any identification, if any
exists, for which he or she is asked. Nothing in this section prohibits
compliance checks authorized by State or Federal laws for educational, research
or training purposes, or required for the enforcement of a particular State or
Federal law.
(Ord. 1089, 12-4-2024)
CHAPTER 14: ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
3-14-1: Purpose and Findings
3-14-2: Definitions
3-14-3: License
3-14-4: Conditions of License
3-14-5: Revocation, Suspension or Nonrenewal of License
§ 3-14-1: PURPOSE AND FINDINGS:
   The City Council of the City of Cottage Grove deems it necessary to provide
for the special and express regulation of businesses or commercial enterprises
which operate as adult body painting studios, adult bookstores, adult cabarets,
adult companionship establishments, adult hotels or motels, adult massage
parlors or health clubs, adult mini-motion picture theaters, adult modeling
studios, adult motion picture arcades or theaters, adult novelty businesses,
adult saunas, and similar adult oriented services operating under different
names in order to protect the public health, safety and welfare, and to guard
against the inception and transmission of disease. The City Council further
finds that the commercial enterprises such as the types described above and all
other similar establishments whose services include sessions offered to adults
conducted in private by members of the same or opposite sex, and employing
personnel with no specialized training are susceptible to operation in a manner
contravening, subverting, or endangering the morals of the community by being
the site of acts of prostitution, illicit sex, and occasions of violent crimes,
and thus requiring close inspection, licensing and regulation.
   The City Council also finds that control and regulation of commercial
establishments of these types, in view of the abuses often perpetrated, require
intensive efforts by the police department and other departments of the city.
As a consequence, the concentrated use of city services in such control
detracts from and reduces the level of service available to the rest of the
community and thereby diminishes the ability of the city to promote the general
health, welfare, morals and safety of the community. In consideration for the
necessity on the part of the city to provide numerous services to all segments
of the community without a concentration of public services in one (1) area
working to the detriment of the members of the general public, it is hereby
decided that the above described uses should be limited to the B-3 zoning
district as a conditional use and should require the issuance of licenses.
§ 3-14-2: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   Adult uses include adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult
mini-motion picture theaters, adult massage parlors, adult steam room/bath-
house/sauna facilities, adult companionship establishments, adult rap/
conversation parlors, adult health/sports clubs, adult cabarets, adult novelty
businesses, adult motion picture arcades, adult modeling studios, adult hotels/
motels, adult body painting studios, and other premises, enterprises,
establishments, businesses, or places open to some or all members of the public
at or in which there is an emphasis on the presentation, display, depiction, or
description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”
which are capable of being seen by members of the public. Activities classified
as obscene as defined by Minnesota Statutes Section 617.241 are not lawful and
are not included in the definition of adult uses.
   ADULT USES-ACCESSORY: The offering of goods and/or services which are
classified as adult uses on a limited scale and which are incidental to the
primary activity and goods and/or services offered by the establishment.
Examples of such items include adult magazines, adult movies, adult novelties,
and the like.
   ADULT USES-PRINCIPAL: The offering of goods and/or services which are
classified as adult uses as a primary or sole activity of a business or
establishment, and include but are not limited to the following:
   ADULT BODY PAINTING STUDIO: An establishment or business which provides the
service of applying paint or other substance whether transparent or
nontransparent to or on the body of a patron when such body is wholly or
partially nude in terms of “specified anatomical areas”.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE: A business engaging in the barter, rental, or sale of items
consisting of printed matter, pictures, slides, records, audiotapes,
videotapes, motion picture film, or any other similar materials, if such shop
is not open to the public generally but only to one (1) or more classes of the
public, excluding any minor by reason of age, or if a substantial or
significant portion of such items are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the depiction or description of “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas”.
   ADULT CABARET: An establishment which provides dancing or other live
entertainment if such dancing or other live entertainment is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on the performance, depiction, or description of
“specified sexual activities” or specified anatomical areas”.
   ADULT COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT: A companionship establishment if such
establishment excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service
of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or discussion between an
employee of the establishment and a customer, if such service is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”.
   ENTERTAINMENT, ADULT: Adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult
mini-motion picture theaters, adult massage parlors, adult saunas, adult
companionship establishments, adult health clubs, adult cabarets, adult novelty
businesses, adult motion picture arcades, adult modeling studios, adult hotels
or motels, adult body painting studios, and other adult establishments.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT: A business engaging in any of the following activities
or which utilizes any of the following business procedures or practices;
either:
      1.   Any business which is conducted exclusively for the patronage of
adults and as to which minors are specifically excluded from patronage thereat
either by law or by the operators of such business; or
      2.   Any other business which offers its patrons services or
entertainment characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, exposing,
describing, discussing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas. Specifically included in the term, but without limitation,
are adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult mini-motion picture
theatres, adult massage parlors, adult saunas, adult companionship
establishments, adult health clubs, adult cabarets, adult novelty businesses,
adult motion picture arcades, adult modeling studios, adult hotel or motel, and
adult body painting studios.
   ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL: Adult hotel or motel means a hotel or motel from which
minors are specifically excluded from patronage and wherein material is
presented which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH CLUB: A massage parlor or health club which
restricts minors by reason of age, and which provides the services of massage,
if such service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A business premises with[in] an enclosed
building with a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting visual
media material if such business as a prevailing practice excludes minors by
virtue of age, or if said material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” for
observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT MODELING STUDIO: An establishment whose major business is the
provision, to customers, of figure models who are so provided with the intent
of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to such customers and
who engage in specified sexual activities or display specified anatomical areas
while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn, sculptured,
photographed, or otherwise depicted by such customers.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE: Any place to which the public is permitted or
invited wherein coin or operated slug or electronically, electrically or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer
persons per machine at any one (1) time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing
“specified sexual activities” or “specific anatomical areas”.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATERS: A business premises within an enclosed
building with a capacity of fifty (50) or more persons used for presenting
visual media material if said business as a prevailing practice excludes minors
by virtue of age, or if said material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the depiction or description of “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas” for observation by patrons.
   ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS: A business which has as a principal activity the
sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which are designed
for sexual stimulation.
   ADULT SAUNA: A sauna which excludes minors by reason of age, or which
provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of bathing,
relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing or
reducing agent, if the service provided by the sauna is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: Anatomical areas consisting of:
      1.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, anus, or female breast(s) below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; and
      2.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Activities consisting of the following:
      1.   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship, and any of the following sexually oriented acts or conduct:
anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquierism, sapphism, zooerasty; or
      2.   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal or tumescence; or
      3.   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus,
or masturbation; or
      4.   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks,
or female breast; or
      5.   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude, clad
in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other
physical restraint or any such persons; or
      6.   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually oriented contact
with an animal by a human being; or
      7.    Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation.
§ 3-14-3: LICENSE:
   A.   License required: No person, firm, or corporation shall operate an
adult use in the City of Cottage Grove without a license pursuant to Title 3,
Chapter 1.
   B.   Applications: Application for an adult use license shall be made on a
form prescribed by the City, and shall include the requisite information under
City Code Section
3-1-2 as well as any of the following information:
      1.   The premises wherein the adult use is to be located;
      2.   A statement detailing each gross misdemeanor or felony relating to a
sex offense add/or the operation of adult uses and related activities of which
the applicant or, in the case of a corporation, the owners of more than five
percent (5%) of the outstanding stock of the corporation, have been convicted,
and whether or not the applicant has ever applied for or held a license to
operate a similar type of business in other communities.
      3.   The activities and types of business to be conducted;
      4.   The hours of operation;
      5.   The provisions made to restrict access by minors;
      6.   A building plan of the premises detailing all internal operations
and activities.
   C.   Licenses Term:
      1.   All licenses shall expire on the last day of June in each year. Each
license shall be issued for a period of one (1) year, except that if a portion
of the license year has elapsed when the application is made, a license may be
issued for the remainder of the year for a pro rata fee. In computing such fee,
any unexpired fraction of a month shall be counted as one (1) month.
      2.   The annual fee for an adult use license shall be as established by
the City’s fee ordinance.
   D.   Places ineligible for license:
      1.   No license shall be granted for adult uses on any premises where a
licensee has been convicted of a violation of this chapter, or where any
license hereunder has been revoked for cause, until one (1) year has elapsed
after such conviction or revocation.
      2.   Except for uses lawfully existing at the time of adoption of this
article, no license shall be granted for any adult use which is not in
compliance with the city’s zoning regulations.
   E.   Investigation: For all new and renewal applicants, a background
investigation will be conducted on the applicant listed on the application
pursuant to City Code Section
3-1-2.B. If more than one (1) background investigation is required, the
applicant shall pay a background investigation fee for each background
investigation conducted.
§ 3-14-4: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Every license shall be granted subject to the conditions in the
following subsections and all other provisions of this chapter, and of any
applicable sections of the Code of the city or state law.
   B.   In the case of an adult use-principal, no minor shall be permitted on
the licensed premises unless accompanied by his parent or legal guardian.
   C.   Every licensee shall be responsible for the conduct of his place of
business and shall maintain conditions of this order.
      1.   An adult use business shall not be allowed within one thousand feet
(1,000') of another existing adult use measured in a straight line from the
buildings.
      2.   An adult use business shall not be located within one thousand feet
(1,000') measured in a straight line from any building located in any R-
residential zoning district in the City.
      3.   An adult use business shall not be located within one thousand feet
(1,000') measured in a straight line from an existing school in the City or an
adjacent city.
      4.   An adult use business shall not sell or dispense nonintoxicating or
intoxicating liquors nor shall it be located in a building which contains a
business that sells or dispenses nonintoxicating or intoxicating liquors.
      5.   No adult use business entertainment shall engage in any activity or
conduct or permit any other person to engage in any activity or conduct in or
about the adult use establishment which is prohibited by any ordinance of the
City, the laws of the State, or the United States of America. Nothing in this
article shall be construed as authorizing or permitting conduct which is
prohibited or regulated by other statutes or ordinances, including but not
limited to statutes or ordinances prohibiting the exhibition, sale or
distribution of obscene material generally, or the exhibition, sale or
distribution of specified materials to minors.
      6.   No adult use business shall be conducted in any manner that permits
the perception or observation from any property not approved as an adult use of
any materials depicting, describing or related to “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas” by any visual or auditory media, including
display, declaration, sign, show window, sound transmission or other means.
      7.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) shall be permitted on the
premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
      8.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) shall be permitted access
to material displayed or offered for sale or rent by an adult use business
establishment.
      9.   Adult use businesses shall not be open between the hours of one
o’clock (1:00) A.M. and eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. on the days of Monday through
Saturday, nor between o’clock (1:00) A.M. and twelve o’clock (12:00) noon on
Sunday.
§ 3-14-5: REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OR NONRENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   The City Council may consider suspension or revocation of an adult use
license when grounds exist, following the procedures of City Code Section
3-1-11.B.
CHAPTER 15: RENTAL LICENSING
Section
3-15-1: Purpose
3-15-2: Definitions
3-15-3: License Required
3-15-4: Renewal
3-15-5: Investigations
3-15-6: Changes in Ownership
3-15-7: Changes in The Rental Dwelling or Rental Dwelling Unit
3-15-8: License Term
3-15-9: Conditions of The License
3-15-10: Exemptions
3-15-11: Responsibility for Acts of Manager
3-15-12: Maintenance Standards
3-15-13: Conduct in Rental Dwelling or Rental Dwelling Unit
3-15-14: Denial, Suspension or Revocation
3-15-15: Summary Action
3-15-16: Posted to Prevent Occupancy
3-15-17: No Warranty by City
§ 3-15-1: PURPOSE:
   It is the purpose of this Chapter to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare of the citizens of the City who live in rental units, the property
owners who operate and manage rental units, and the general public who reside
next to rental units, by adopting a rental dwelling inspection and maintenance
program that corrects substandard conditions and maintains a standard for
existing and newly constructed rental dwellings in the City. The operation of
rental properties is a business enterprise that includes certain
responsibilities. Rental owners, operators, and managers are responsible for
taking such reasonable steps as are necessary to ensure that the citizens who
occupy such rental units, as well as neighboring properties, may pursue the
quiet enjoyment of the normal activities of life in surroundings that are safe,
secure, and sanitary, free from noise, nuisances, and annoyances, and free from
unreasonable fears about safety of persons and property.
§ 3-15-2: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT: A subordinate habitable dwelling unit, which has
its own basic requirements of shelter, heating, cooking, and sanitation added
to or created within a single-family dwelling or detached accessory structure.
   APARTMENT: A community, complex or building having a common owner and
containing at least one (1) rental dwelling unit.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR: The Cottage Grove City Administrator or their designee.
   CITY APPROVED INSPECTOR’S REPORT OR INSPECTION REPORT: A rental dwelling
inspection report prepared and signed by a City inspector.
   DWELLING: A building or one (1) or more portions of a building occupied or
intended to be occupied for residential purposes.
   DWELLING UNIT: A single-family dwelling or a discrete portion of a dwelling
or detached structure/garage designed for occupancy by one (1) family.
   FAMILY: Those persons legally related to each other in a linear relationship
such as spouses, grandparents, parents, children, grandchildren, and siblings.
Family does not include branching relationships such as aunts, uncles, or
cousins.
   LET FOR OCCUPANCY OR TO LET OR TO RENT: To permit possession or occupancy of
a dwelling or rental dwelling unit, whether or not compensation is paid, by a
person who is not the legal owner of record thereof, pursuant to a written or
unwritten lease.
   OCCUPANT OR TENANT: Any person living or sleeping in a dwelling unit, or
having possession of a space within a dwelling unit.
   OPERATE: To rent, lease or grant the use and possession of a rental dwelling
unit, whether or not compensation is paid.
   OPERATOR OR MANAGER: Any person who has charge, care or control of a
structure or premises that is let or offered for occupancy.
   OWNER OR LICENSEE: Any person, agent, or operator having a legal or
equitable interest in the property or recorded in the official State, County or
City records as holding title to the property or otherwise having control of
the property.
   PERSON: An individual, corporation, firm, association, company, partnership,
organization or any other group acting as a unit.
   RENTAL DWELLING: Any dwelling used for residential occupancy by one (1) or
more persons who are not the owner or a member of the owner’s family.
   RENTAL DWELLING UNIT: Any room or rooms, or space, in any rental dwelling
designed or used for residential occupancy by one (1) or more persons who are
not the owner or a member of the owner’s family.
   SHORT TERM HOME RENTAL: The furnishing for consideration of lodging to
transient guests in a dwelling or dwelling unit, such as VRBO and Airbnb, where
the renting or letting for occupancy is for a temporary period of time that is
typically less than thirty (30) consecutive days.
   STRUCTURE: That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any
kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined
together in some definite manner.
§ 3-15-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   General Rules:
      1.   No person shall operate a rental dwelling or rental dwelling unit in
the City without a license obtained pursuant to Title 3, Chapter 1 of this
Code. This requirement applies to apartments, short term home rentals and any
dwelling unit that is let for occupancy, unless exempted pursuant to Section
3-15-10.
      2.   No more than five (5) unrelated persons may reside in one (1) rental
dwelling or rental dwelling unit. This requirement does not apply to short term
home rentals.
      3.   Failure to obtain a rental license prior to renting residential
property is a violation of this Code, subject to a misdemeanor citation.
   B.   Applications: An application for a license shall be made on a form
provided by the City, and shall include the requisite information under City
Code Section
3-1-2 as well as the following information:
      1.   Contact Information: For single-family residential dwellings, the
license applicant must provide 24-hour contact information for one (1) person
in any of the following categories. For all other types of dwellings, the
license applicant must provide twenty-four (24) hour contact information for
two (2) people in any of the following categories:
         a.   At least one (1) owner of the rental dwelling or rental dwelling
unit.
         b.   At least one (1) person, if different from the owner, who is
responsible for compliance with this and any other Code requirement pertaining
to the rental dwelling or rental dwelling unit, such as a property manager, who
must reside in the Twin Cities 7-County metropolitan area.
         c.   Any of the owner’s agents responsible for management of the
rental dwelling or rental dwelling unit, such as a property management company
and the name and contact information of a person at the property management
company.
         d.   Any vendors and all vendees, if the rental dwelling or rental
dwelling unit is being sold pursuant to a contract for deed.
      2.   Number and Type of Units: The license application must contain the
number of units and types of units (condominium, apartment, townhome, etc.)
within the rental dwelling.
      3.   Inspection Report: The license application must have a satisfactory
City approved inspector’s report before it will be submitted to the City
Council. A satisfactory City approved inspector’s report may be dated within
the previous twenty-four (24) months for single-family dwellings and twelve
(12) months for multi-family dwellings. A tenant shall not occupy a dwelling
unit that is the subject of a compliance order until the corrective action has
been completed and approved. If the owner submits an affidavit with the housing
official setting forth a date by which the corrective action will be completed,
occupancy shall be permitted pending completion of the corrective action,
unless the dwelling unit has been declared as unfit for human habitation.
Inspections shall be scheduled pursuant to subsection C of this Section.
      4.   Notification of Changes: The applicant must notify the City Clerk in
writing of any changes to the information on the application within five (5)
business days of the change.
      5.   Existing License Holders: Owners of rental dwellings who hold a
current rental property license from the City as of the effective date of this
Chapter, shall apply for a license pursuant to this Chapter and shall comply
with all requirements contained herein. The existing license shall be allowed
to continue for a reasonable time pending approval of the new license
application.
   C.   Inspections:
      1.   The owner or the owner’s agent is responsible for scheduling all
required inspections with the Building Department staff.
      2.   If an owner or the owner’s agent in charge of a dwelling unit
licensed under this Section fails to schedule a required inspection within
fourteen (14) days of the rental license application being deemed complete, the
housing official may recommend suspension, revocation or denial of the license
following the process in City Code Section
3-1-11.
      3.   Except in the case of emergency, inspections will be conducted
during normal City working hours. The housing official must present evidence of
official authority to the occupant in charge of a licensed dwelling unit.
      4.   The owner or the owner’s property manager must be present during the
inspection and must permit free access and entry for inspection purposes. If
access is denied, the housing official may administer reinspection fees or may
recommend suspension, revocation or denial of the license following the process
in
3-1-11 of this Chapter.
   D.   Compliance Orders:
      1.   Compliance Order: A compliance order documenting corrective actions
with compliance date will be sent to the owner. The owner is responsible for
assuring all corrective actions are made by the compliance date and a
reinspection is scheduled.
      2.   Corrective Actions: If an owner or the owner’s agent in charge of a
dwelling unit licensed under this Section fails to make corrective actions
listed in the compliance order or fails to schedule a reinspection by the
compliance date, the Housing Official may recommend suspension, revocation, or
denial of the license, may administer abatement as described in Title 4,
Chapter 1 of this Code or may recommend the issuance of a misdemeanor citation.
      3.   Appeal: Right of Appeal; Procedure: When it is alleged by a person
to whom a compliance order is directed that the compliance order is based upon
erroneous interpretation of this Chapter or upon a misstatement or mistake of
fact, that person may appeal the compliance order to the City Administrator
pursuant to City Code Section
1-3-4.
(amd. Ord. 1085, 12-4-2024)
§ 3-15-4: RENEWAL:
   A.   An application for license renewal must be filed by November 30 of the
year prior to the year in which the license expires.
   B.   Upon failure to comply with this provision, a letter will be sent to
the owner informing them that a late fee, in addition to the renewal fee will
be due within fifteen (15) calendar days.
§ 3-15-5: INVESTIGATIONS:
   A.   Background Reports: In order to protect the general welfare of the
public for all applications, criminal history background reports from the BCA
must be submitted with the application for any owner who has or would have the
means to enter rental dwelling units or any manager who has or would have the
means within the scope of the individual’s duties, to enter rental dwelling
units. To satisfy this requirement:
      1.   An owner who has or would have the means to enter rental dwelling
units must provide a copy of a BCA public criminal conviction history report,
which must be dated within twenty-four (24) months of the date of the
application.
      2.   A manager must provide a BCA public criminal conviction history
report and a response from the Superintendent of the BCA required by Minnesota
Statutes Section 299C.68, both of which must be dated within twenty-four (24)
months of the application.
   If not a Minnesota resident, a criminal conviction history report from the
appropriate government agency in the state of residency is also required.
   B.   Authorization: At the time of making an initial or renewal license
application, the applicant must provide written authorization to the City to
investigate all facts set out in the application. The information obtained from
the investigation shall be used to assist the City Council in making a decision
as to whether the applicant should be granted a license. The decision may be
based on any of the following criteria:
      1.   Whether the owner or manager subject to the investigation required
in this Section was convicted of a crime or offense in the last five (5) years
involving or directly relating to the business for which a license is sought;
or
      2.   Whether the owner or manager was convicted of a “background check
crime” as defined by Minnesota Statutes Section 299C.67, subdivision 2, within
the last ten (10) years; or
      3.   Whether there is a material misrepresentation in the application.
§ 3-15-6: CHANGES IN OWNERSHIP:
   A license is nontransferable. If there is a change in the ownership of the
rental dwelling or rental dwelling unit, a new license is required.
§ 3-15-7: CHANGES IN THE RENTAL DWELLING OR RENTAL DWELLING UNIT:
   If changes are made in the number or type of units, the agent or property
manager, the licensee shall notify the City Clerk in writing within five (5)
days of such change.
§ 3-15-8: LICENSE TERM:
   Persons desiring to let rental dwellings or rental dwelling units must make
an application to the City, provide the information required by this Chapter
and pay the applicable license fees prior to any inspection or new or renewal
license being issued. For single-family residential dwelling units, license
terms shall be for a period of two (2) years. For multi-family residential
dwelling units, the license term shall be for one (1) year. All license terms
begin on March 1 and expire on the last day of February.
§ 3-15-9: CONDITIONS OF THE LICENSE:
   As conditions of the license, the licensee must do the following:
   A.   Tenant Register: Maintain a current register of tenants and other
persons who have a lawful right to occupancy of rental dwellings or rental
dwelling units, which must be available for inspection by City officials upon
request. The licensee must designate the name of the person or persons who will
have possession of the register and must promptly notify the City Administrator
of any change in the identity, address, or telephone numbers of such person.
For purposes of this Section, “current” means that the register is updated
every thirty (30) days.
   B.   Fire Certification: Execute a statement that the smoke detectors are
properly installed and operable and that the fire exits are accessible.
   C.   Tenant Screening Certification: Execute a statement that the licensee
has a screening process the licensee uses during the approval process of each
tenant to attempt to ensure quality tenants occupy the rental dwelling.
   D.   Minnesota Crime-Free Lease Addendum: Use the Minnesota Crime-Free Lease
Addendum, or its equivalent, as part of its leases. This condition does not
apply to short term home rentals.
   E.   Display of License Certificate: For multi-family, the license
certificate must be exhibited in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to
the rental dwelling. One (1) license certificate must be displayed for each
building. If practical, the certificate must be displayed in the rental office
or other common area accessible to all tenants of the licensed building. For
single-family homes and duplexes, a copy of the license certificate must be
provided to the tenants.
   F.   Lodging and Sale Taxes: In addition to state sales taxes, short term
home rentals are required to pay the City lodging tax pursuant to City Code
Section
1-5-5 directly to the City on a quarterly basis. The property owner must
provide information on a web-based booking service(s) used for the property. If
no sales are made during a quarter, a report must be submitted to the City
stating that no sales were made or lodging tax collected during that quarter.
(amd. Ord. 1085, 12-4-2024)
§ 3-15-10: EXEMPTIONS:
   This Chapter does not apply to the following:
   A.   Hospitals.
   B.   State-licensed residential care facilities.
   C.   Assisted living facilities.
   D.   Nursing homes.
   E.   Hotels or motels.
   F.   Single-family homes in which an individual owns the single-family home
and resides in a portion of the building in which there is a rental dwelling
unit and there are a total of no more than five (5) persons within the rental
dwelling unit that are unrelated to the owner and to each other.
   G.   Accessory dwelling units.
   H.   Single-family homes in which a qualifying family member of the property
owner, as defined by section
3-15-2, resides in the home as their primary residence with no more than four
unrelated persons. (amd. Ord. 1083, 6-5-2024)
§ 3-15-11: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ACTS OF MANAGER:
   Licensees are responsible for the acts or omissions of their managers as it
pertains to the rental dwelling.
§ 3-15-12: MAINTENANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Tenant Responsibilities: Tenants are responsible for the condition of
the rental dwelling units that they occupy. The licensee is responsible for the
maintenance of the rental dwelling units, and the lot on which the rental
dwelling sits. It is ultimately the responsibility of the licensee to assure
that every rental dwelling is maintained in compliance with all City ordinances
and State laws. A violation of any of the following laws and ordinances
constitutes a public nuisance:
      1.   Public Nuisance Ordinance (Title 4, Chapter 1).
      2.   Solid Waste Ordinance (Title 4, Chapter 2).
      3.   Fire Prevention Code (Title 4, Chapter 6).
      4.   Animal Ordinance (Title 5, Chapter 4).
      5.   Building Code (Title 9, Chapter 1).
      6.   Property Maintenance Code (Title 9, Chapter 2).
   B.   Interior Inspections of Rental Dwellings: The Building Official,
Building Inspector, Housing Inspector, Fire Department Personnel, Police
Officers and their respective representatives are authorized inspectors who may
enter rental dwellings for purposes of making inspections reasonably necessary
to enforce this Section. The tenant and owner shall be given notice of the
inspection by personal service, electronic communication, telephone contact or
postmarked letter at least seventy-two (72) hours prior to the time the
inspection is made. All authorized inspectors noted in this Section have the
authority to enter any rental dwelling or rental dwelling unit at all
reasonable times. Each tenant of a rental dwelling or rental dwelling unit
shall give the owner, the owner’s agent, or authorized City official access to
any part of such rental dwelling or rental dwelling unit at reasonable times
for the purpose of inspection, maintenance, repairs or alterations as are
necessary to comply with the provisions of this Chapter. An owner or tenant may
refuse to permit entry to a rental dwelling or rental dwelling unit for an
inspection pursuant to this Chapter, in which case, the inspector may seek an
administrative search warrant authorizing such inspection.
   C.   Minimum Requirements and Implementation Standards:
      1.   Minimum Requirements: The minimum requirements imposed by this Code
include those standards or requirements in effect on the date of the
construction of a building subject to this Code. It is not the intention of
this Code to require all buildings to be upgraded to meet all requirements of
the present Building Code.
      2.   Implementation Standards: In administering this Code, the housing
official will treat the following as conditions constituting an immediate
hazard to health and safety that must be corrected by the compliance date
stated in the compliance order:
         a.   Required: Smoke and carbon monoxide detectors shall be required
as follows:
            (1)   One (1) smoke detector shall be installed in each sleeping
room.
            (2)   One (1) smoke detector shall be installed on each level near
the sleeping rooms and stairways. All battery-operated smoke detectors shall be
installed as per the manufacturer’s instructions. During any remodeling
(excluding minor remodeling as determined by the housing official) all smoke
detectors shall be hardwired and interconnected.
            (3)   All existing single-family dwellings shall be equipped with
an approved carbon monoxide detector located within ten feet (10') of each
sleeping room.
            (4)   All multi-family or apartment dwelling units shall be
equipped with an approved carbon monoxide detector located within ten feet
(10') of each sleeping room.
               Exception: Multi-family dwellings may have approved and
operational carbon monoxide alarms installed between fifteen feet (15') and
twenty-five feet (25') of carbon monoxide producing central fixtures, provided
there is a centralized alarm system or other mechanism for responsible parties
to hear the alarm at all times.
         b.   Unsafe, Inadequate Heating: Heating systems, dryer venting, wood
burning stoves, fireplaces, and oil burners that are unsafe due to: burned out
or rusted heat exchangers (fire box); burned out, rusted, or plugged flues or
drip tees; improper flue pitch; improper flue clearances; improper venting;
improper gas piping or gas valve installation; or being incapable of adequately
heating the living space.
         c.   Dryer Exhaust Ducts: Dryer exhaust ducts shall be metal and
installed per the current Mechanical Code.
         d.   Unsafe Electrical Systems: Electrical systems that are unsafe due
to: exposed busbar at panel, dangerous overloading, damaged or deteriorated
equipment, improperly tapped or spliced wiring, exposed uninsulated wires,
distribution systems of extension cords or other temporary methods, and
ungrounded systems. Ground fault circuit interrupter (GFCI) protection must be
provided for all receptacle outlets in bathrooms, garages, grade level portions
of unfinished accessory buildings, unfinished basements, kitchen countertops,
wet bars, and the exterior.
         e.   Unsafe, Unsanitary Plumbing Systems: Plumbing systems that are
unsafe or unsanitary due to: leaking or improper waste and venting of fixtures
and traps, lack of water closet or washing and bathing facilities, or cross
connection of the potable water supply. All potable water systems shall be
protected against backflow and back siphonage by providing an air gap and/or
backflow prevention. Water heaters that are unsafe due to: burned or rusted
heat exchangers (fire box); burned, rusted, improperly pitched, or plugged
venting; improper flue clearance; leaking tanks; improper gas piping, or gas
valve installation; or leaking/corroded connections and temperature/pressure
relief valves.
         f.   Imposed Loads: Structural systems, walls, chimneys, ceilings,
roofs, foundations and floor systems that will not safely carry imposed loads.
         g.   Unfit for Human Occupancy or Use: Refuse, garbage, human waste
and animal, decaying vermin or other dead animals, animal waste and other
materials rendering the dwelling and property unsanitary for human occupancy or
use.
         h.   Infestation: Infestation of rats, insects, and other vermin.
         i.   Stairways; Guardrails; Handrails: Stairways, guardrails, and
handrails shall be maintained in a safe compliant manner. Should corrective
measures be required, all affected components shall be repaired compliant with
current codes and standards.
         j.   Below Grade Escape Wells: Below grade escape wells shall be free
of obstructions, constructed and maintained in a safe and Code compliant
manner. Window wells with a vertical depth greater than forty-four inches (44")
below adjacent ground level shall be equipped with a permanently affixed ladder
or steps usable with the window in the fully open position.
         k.   Foundation: The foundation shall be substantially watertight and
protected against vermin and rodents and shall be kept in sound condition and
repair. The foundation element shall adequately support the building at all
points.
         l.   Sidewalks; Stoop; Concrete Steps: Sidewalks, stoop, and concrete
steps shall be maintained free of large cracks and breaks. All exterior
concrete shall pitch away from the structure.
         m.   Exterior Walls, Soffit and Fascia, and Roof: The exterior walls
and roof shall be substantially watertight and protected against vermin and
rodents and shall be kept in sound condition and repair. Every exterior wall
shall be free of deterioration, holes, breaks, loose or rotting boards or
timbers, and any other condition, which might allow water intrusion within the
interior portion of the walls or to the exterior spaces of the structure. The
roof shall be tight and have no defects, which allow water intrusion. Roof
drainage shall be adequate to prevent moisture from causing dampness within the
walls. All exterior wood surfaces, other than decay resistant woods, shall be
protected from the elements and decay by paint or other protective covering or
treatment.
         n.   Exterior Doors, Windows, and Insect Screens: Every window,
exterior door and other exterior openings shall be substantially tight and
shall be kept in sound condition and repair. Every operable window shall be
capable of being easily opened. Every window, door, screen, and frame shall
completely exclude water intrusion, wind, vermin, and rodents from entering the
building. Insect screens shall be installed on all operable windows and shall
be maintained in a sound condition and repair. Garages, attached or detached,
shall have a fully operational overhead door or barn type door which must be
kept in sound condition and repair.
         o.   Yards: All trees, shrubs and brush growing against any building
or fence which represents a hazard to the structural integrity of any structure
shall be removed or trimmed to prevent damage. All yards shall be graded so as
to not affect the character of the immediate residential area.
         p.   Grading and Drainage: All premises shall be graded and maintained
to prevent the erosion of soil and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant
water. All surface water shall drain away from the foundation walls of all
dwellings. Damaged gutters and downspouts shall be repaired or removed.
§ 3-15-13: CONDUCT IN RENTAL DWELLING OR RENTAL DWELLING UNIT:
   It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that persons
occupying a rental dwelling unit conduct themselves and cause their guests to
conduct themselves in such a manner as not to cause the rental dwelling or
rental dwelling unit to be disorderly. For the purposes of this Section, a
rental dwelling or rental dwelling unit is disorderly at any time that any of
the following activities occur:
   A.   Violation of Title 4, Chapter 7, “Noise”, of this Code;
   B.   Violation of the laws relating to disorderly conduct, as defined in
Minnesota Statutes Section 609.72;
   C.   Violation of the laws relating to the possession of controlled
substances, as defined in Minnesota Statutes Section 152.01;
   D.   Violation of the laws relating to the sale of intoxicating liquor, as
defined in Minnesota Statutes Sections 340A.701, 340A.702, or 340A.703;
   E.   Violation of the laws relating to liquor and minors, as defined in
Minnesota Statutes Section 340A.503, subdivision 1;
   F.   Violation of the laws relating to prostitution or acts relating to
prostitution, as defined in Minnesota Statutes Section 609.321, subdivision 9,
Minnesota Statutes Section 609.322 or 609.324;
   G.   Violation of the laws relating to the unlawful use or possession of a
firearm in a rental dwelling or rental dwelling unit, as defined in Minnesota
Statutes Sections 609.66 through 609.672;
   H.   Violation of the laws relating to assault, as defined in Minnesota
Statutes Section 609.224;
   I.   Violation of the laws relating to contributing to the need for
protection or services or delinquency of a minor, as defined in Minnesota
Statutes Section 609.378;
   J.   Violation of Section
3-15-12, “Maintenance Standards”, of this Chapter.
§ 3-15-14: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
   A.   In addition to the grounds for denial, suspension or revocation stated
in City Code Section
3-1-11.B, a rental license may be denied, suspended, or revoked for any
violation of City Code Section
3-15-13.
   B.   Denial, Suspension or Revocation Hearing: The Council or its designee
may hold a hearing to take action on a license or to deny, suspend or revoke a
license or to consider other actions against the licensee. Denial, suspension,
or revocation hearings shall be conducted pursuant to City Code Section
3-1-11.B.
   C.   Reapplication: Upon denial, revocation or nonrenewal of a license, the
owner may not reapply for a license for a period of six (6) months. Upon
expiration of the six-month period, the applicant must re-apply for a new
license.
   D.   Notification to Tenants: Upon suspension, revocation or nonrenewal of a
license, the City will notify all affected tenants that the license has been
revoked, suspended, or not renewed.
§ 3-15-15: SUMMARY ACTION:
   A.   Emergency: The Building Official has the authority to summarily condemn
or close individual rental dwelling units or areas of the rental dwelling on
the following basis:
      1.   When the conduct of any owner or owner’s agent, representative,
employee or lessee is detrimental to the public health, sanitation, safety and
general welfare of the community;
      2.   When the condition of the rental dwelling or rental dwelling unit is
detrimental to the public health, sanitation, safety and general welfare of the
community;
      3.   When the property in or on which it is located, is in a condition
such that it is detrimental to the public health, sanitation, safety and
general welfare of the community; or
      4.   When the behavior of the residents of the rental dwelling or rental
dwelling unit constitutes a nuisance, fire hazard, or other unsafe or dangerous
condition.
   B.   Notice: Notice of summary action will be posted at the units or areas
affected and will describe the units or areas affected. No person shall remove
the posted notice, other than the building official or a designated
representative.
§ 3-15-16: POSTED TO PREVENT OCCUPANCY:
   Whenever any rental dwelling or rental dwelling unit is found to be unfit
for human habitation under the State Building Code, it shall be posted by the
Building Official or any other designated representative of the City, on the
door of the rental dwelling or rental dwelling unit, whichever the case may be,
to prevent further occupancy. No person, other than the Building Official or
the City representative, shall remove or alter any posting. The Building
Official or City representative will post the date the rental dwelling or
rental dwelling unit shall be vacated, and no person shall reside in, occupy or
cause to be occupied that rental dwelling or rental dwelling unit until the
Building Official, the City representative or Council permits it.
§ 3-15-17: NO WARRANTY BY CITY:
   By enacting and undertaking to enforce this Chapter, neither the City nor
its Council, agents or employees warrant or guaranty the safety, fitness, or
suitability of any rental dwelling or rental dwelling unit in the City. Owners
and occupants should take appropriate steps to protect their interests, health,
safety, and welfare.
TITLE 4: PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1: NUISANCES
Section
4-1-1: Definitions; General Provisions
4-1-2: Public Nuisances Affecting Health
4-1-3: Public Nuisances Affecting Safety
4-1-4: Unsheltered Storage and Inoperable or Abandoned Motor Vehicles
4-1-5: Building Maintenance and Appearance
4-1-6: Abatement Procedures
§ 4-1-1: DEFINITIONS; GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall
have the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   ABATEMENT: Includes, but is not limited to, the removal, stoppage,
extermination, eradication, cleaning, cutting, mowing, grading, repairing,
draining, securing, barricading, fencing, demolishing, or destroying that which
causes or constitutes a nuisance.
   ANNOYANCES: Any condition that unreasonably annoys, injures or endangers the
safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable number of members
of the public.
   COMPLIANCE DEADLINE: Either forty-eight (48) hours after the notice is
received or posted or such other date by which the nuisance must be removed, as
specified in the notice.
   EMERGENCY ABATEMENT: The abatement of the nuisance by the City, or a
contractor employed by the City, by removal, repair or other acts without
notice to the owner, agent or occupant of the property except for the notice
required by this Code.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Any employee or agent enumerated in City Code Section
1-3-1 or any duly authorized representative thereof.
   GARBAGE: Junk, trash, refuse, rubbish, litter, rubble, paper discarded
articles, debris or matter of any kind or form not cared for, discarded,
abandoned, or not concealed within an enclosure.
   OBSTRUCTIONS: Objects or conditions that interfere with, endanger, or
prevent the ordinary or safe use of any property including public right-of-way.
   OWNER: Any person shown to be the property owner of record.
   PROPERTY: Any real property, premises, structure, or location on which a
public nuisance is alleged to exist.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE OR NUISANCE: Any substance, matter, emission or thing that
creates a dangerous or unhealthy condition or that threatens the public peace,
health, safety or sanitary condition of the City or that is offensive or has a
blighting influence on the community and is found upon, in, being discharged or
flowing from or onto any street, alley, highway, vehicle, water, excavation,
building, erection, lot, grounds or other property located within the City or
any offense that is deemed or declared to be a public nuisance by the City
Code.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY: Any one (1) or more of the following:
      1.   Owner;
      2.   Agent;
      3.   Contract for Deed holder;
      4.   Mortgagee or vendee in possession;
      5.   Lessee; or
      6.   Other person, firm or corporation exercising apparent control over a
property.
   UNSHELTERED STORAGE: Includes, but is not limited to, machinery, implements,
equipment, or personal property, worn out or discarded material, household
appliances or parts, tools, building materials, tin cans, glass, furniture,
mattresses, box springs, crates, cardboard, tires or any other unsightly
debris, brush or materials, the accumulation of which may have an adverse
effect upon the neighborhood or property values, health, safety or general
welfare of the public.
   B.   Public Nuisance: Public nuisance includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
      1.   Violations of City Code Section
4-1-2 (health);
      2.   Violations of City Code Section
4-1-3 (safety);
      3.   Violations of City Code Section
4-1-4 (unsheltered storage and inoperable or abandoned motor vehicles);
      4.   Violations of City Code Section
4-1-5 (building maintenance and appearance);
      5.   Violations of City Code Sections
4-2-11 and
4-2-14 (trash);
      6.   Violations of City Code Section 4-3 (plants and weeds);
      7.   Violations of City Code Section 4-7 (noise);
      8.   Obstructions, which include, but are not limited to:
         a.   Snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks within twenty-four
(24) hours after its accumulation.
         b.   Water, ice or snow or wastewater falling or flowing from private
property or buildings onto public property, except gutters, drainage ways and
storm sewers.
         c.   Use of public street or sidewalk or use of property abutting a
public street or sidewalk that causes large crowds of people to gather,
blocking or obstructing traffic, streets or sidewalks, except in accordance
with the regulations of the City.
         d.   Signs, awnings, vegetation, or other objects located on private
property that are not constructed and maintained as required by law that
prevent persons from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an
intersection, or that overhang and obstruct public property.
         e.   Tree Limbs: All limbs or trees which are less than eight feet
(8') above the surface of any public walkway or nine feet (9') above the
surface of any street.
         f.   Utility Wires: All utility wires which are strung less than
fifteen feet (15') above the surface of the ground.
         g.   Digging, excavating, or doing any act that alters or effects the
drainage of property or alters or effects flows of the public storm sewer and
drainage ditch system, except in accordance with the regulations of the City.
         h.   Depositing snow onto a neighbor’s property or into the right-of-
way.
      9.   Annoyances, which include, but are not limited to noises, odors,
vibrations or emissions of smoke, fumes, gas, soot, cinders, or ash;
      10.   Direct sky-reflected glare directed into any adjoining property
where the bare lightbulb is in view of adjacent property or public street;
      11.   Engaging in any business, activity or conduct that is dangerous,
hurtful, unwholesome, offensive or unhealthy to the neighborhood, or which
constitutes an annoyance to considerable members of the public, or is
detrimental to the property in the neighborhood or to the general public
including but not limited to, chronic traffic congestion, noisy or late night
parties or gatherings that disturb the repose of neighboring property owners,
excessive or unreasonable amounts of otherwise lawful parking that causes the
unsafe narrowing of traffic lanes and which parking is caused by crowds
associated with parties or social gatherings; abusive or threatening language
or gestures by residents of the property directed at adjacent or neighboring
property owners; a property that is the location of gatherings of juveniles and
residents or guests have received citations for underage consumption or the
owner of the property has received a citation for allowing or aiding or
abetting juvenile consumption; a property that has been allowed to physically
deteriorate and has not been maintained and the neglect has measurably lessened
the market value of nearby property in the opinion of an appraiser hired by the
City for that purpose;
      12.   Permitting, suffering, maintaining, or failing to remove any
offensive, nauseous, hurtful, dangerous or unhealthy condition resulting from a
failure to properly dispose of garbage, sewage, waste, debris or any other
unwholesome or offensive substance, liquid, or thing upon one’s premises, or
dropping, discharging, passing, depositing, or otherwise delivering the same
upon the premises of another or public property;
      13.   Constructing, maintaining, permitting, or suffering upon one’s
property any billboard, sign, poster, or advertisement, or to post, publish,
promulgate, broadcast, display, issue or circulate any insulting, profane or
abusive emblem, sign or device, or blasphemous written or printed statement,
calculated or such as is likely to cause a breach of the peace;
      14.   Displaying, circulating, issuing, posting, or publishing any
slanderous or obscene, immoral or lewd pictures, posters, literature, writings,
drawings, or oral statements;
      15.   Any fence, wall, shed, deck, house, garage, building, structure,
tree, pole, smokestack, excavation, hole, pit, basement, cellar, sidewalk,
dock, lot, land, yard, premises, or location which by reason of the condition
in which it is found or permitted to be or remain, does or may endanger the
health, safety, life, limb or property, or cause any hurt, harm, inconvenience,
discomfort, damage or injury to any one (1) or more individuals in the City;
      16.   Graffiti; and
      17.   Any other activity, place or thing that is defined in this Code as
a nuisance or public nuisance or any other violations of the City Code or
zoning ordinance that are a danger to the health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens of the City.
§ 4-1-2: PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH:
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public health
and safety:
   A.   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   B.   All diseased animals running at large;
   C.   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   D.   Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris;
   E.   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight or
which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   F.   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste, or other substances;
   G.   Violations of City Code Section
8-1-14 (illicit discharge);
   H.   Violations of Title 4 Chapter 2 (mixed solid waste and recycling);
   I.   Septic tanks, drain fields and private sewage disposal facilities which
malfunction, causing overflow, offensive odors, or both;
   J.   All noxious weeds, poisonous plants, and other rank growths of
vegetation upon public or private property;
   K.   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   L.   All unnecessary and annoying vibrations;
   M.   Spreading Septage: Land spreading septage on any property within the
incorporated areas of Cottage Grove, Washington County, Minnesota.
§ 4-1-3: PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING SAFETY:
   A.   Storage of Explosive and Inflammable Substances: All explosives,
inflammable liquids and other dangerous substances stored in any manner or in
any amount other than that provided by law;
   B.   Fireworks: All possession, use or explosion of fireworks, except as
provided by law;
   C.   Barbed Wire Fences: All barbed wire fences, except where allowed by
City Code;
   D.   Dangerous Machinery: All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public
place, or so situated or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   E.   Deteriorated Private Roads, Access Drives, Parking Lots, Alleyways,
Trails, Sidewalks Or Other Paved Surfaces: Any private road, access drive,
parking lot, alleyway, paved trail, sidewalk, ramp or paved surface that serves
one (1) or more commercial property and is generally held open to the public
for travel, when, as a result of damage or improper maintenance, the condition
of the paved surface is likely to cause injury to any person or damage to
property. Evidence of such damage or improper maintenance may include, but is
not limited to, degradation of the driving or parking surface that is larger
than thirty-six (36) square inches with a depth greater than two inches (2"),
or cracks or trip hazards in sidewalks or walking surfaces that are not in
compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA); and
   F.   Building Construction Violations: All buildings and all alterations to
buildings made or erected in violation of the laws concerning materials and
construction.
§ 4-1-4: UNSHELTERED STORAGE AND INOPERABLE OR ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES:
   A.   General:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section is to declare unsheltered
storage and inoperable or abandoned motor vehicles and any other vehicles,
machinery, implements, equipment, junk or personal property of any kind to be a
danger to the public health and safety. The use of tarps shall not be
considered an acceptable form of shelter.
      2.   Declaration: The unsheltered storage of these property items
throughout the City tend to impede traffic in the streets, interfere with the
enjoyment of, and reduce the value of public and private property, invite
plundering, create fire hazards and other safety and health hazards to children
as well as adults, interfere with the comfort and well-being of the public, and
create, extend, and aggravate urban blight. The Council declares that, in order
to protect the public health, safety and welfare from such conditions, these
conditions are a public nuisance and must be regulated, abated, and prohibited.
   B.   Unsheltered Storage and Clutter: No person may place, permit, store,
allow, maintain or leave machinery, implements, equipment, clutter or personal
property or unsheltered storage upon an open space area of any premises located
anywhere in the City.
   C.   Wood Storage:
      1.   General Rule: No person shall keep or store wood or allow wood to be
kept or stored outside on property owned or controlled by that person on
residential zoned property, unless said wood is kept or stored as follows:
         a.   In neat and secure stacks. The maximum amount of firewood which
may be stored is six (6) fireplace cords or two hundred fifty-six (256) cubic
feet. One (1) fireplace cord shall be defined as a sixteen inch by four feet by
eight feet (16" x 4' x 8') stack of wood. For properties where the primary
heating source is wood, six (6) cords are permitted. One (1) cord shall be
defined as four-feet by four-feet by eight-feet (4' x 4' x 8') stack of wood.
Firewood shall be maintained in neat and secure stacks, the height of which
shall be no more than twice the width, with a maximum height of six feet (6')
above grade;
         b.   Firewood stacks must be screened from view from public streets
and adjoining properties, except that no screening is required for a single
fireplace cord stacked next to the principal structure. All such screening
shall consist of a solid fence or wall, or equivalent as approved by the
Community Development Director.
         c.   The wood stacks shall not be infested or inhabited with rats,
rodents, vermin, or insects noxious or dangerous to persons or property;
         d.   The wood shall not be stored or kept in the front yard or yard
that is commonly considered the front yard of any lot;
         e.   Woodpiles shall be elevated a minimum of three inches (3") above
the ground;
         f.   The setback for firewood stacks shall be the same as the setbacks
for accessory structures in the zoning district; and
      2.   Exceptions: The wood storage regulations shall not apply to:
         a.   Persons having property on which new construction is taking place
and the wood on said property is used for said construction, unless the wood
has remained on the property for more than thirty (30) days and is not a
permanent part of the new construction at the end of that time; and
         b.   Persons storing or keeping wood on property when said wood is
stored within an enclosed structure which otherwise conforms to the zoning
requirements of the district.
         c.   Temporary storage of logs for up to thirty (30) days outside of
the required areas of setback from the property lines and street is allowed for
the purpose of cutting and splitting logs to a size usable in the residence’s
wood burning device.
   D.   Inoperable or abandoned motor vehicles.
      1.   General Rule: No person shall place, park, permit to remain, store
or leave upon an open area of any premises located anywhere in the City any
inoperable or abandoned vehicle for more than seven (7) days.
      2.   Exceptions:
         a.   In a residential zoned district, inoperable or abandoned vehicles
may be placed, parked, permitted to remain, stored, or left for more than seven
(7) days only if the vehicle is kept entirely within an enclosed building.
         b.   In a business or industrial zoned district, inoperable or
abandoned vehicles may be placed, parked, permitted to remain, stored, or left
for more than seven (7) days only if adequately screened. Adequate screening
will require the keeping of the vehicles within a building, tight fence at
least five feet (5') in height, or within an earth-toned or neutral colored
opaque cover that was specifically designed and manufactured for that purpose,
and which completely encloses such vehicle. Any inoperable or abandoned vehicle
legally kept in a business or industrial zoning district for more than seven
(7) days must be at least one hundred feet (100') from a public highway or
residential building.
         c.   In a business or industrial zoned property that is not an auto
repair establishment, inoperable or abandoned vehicles may be placed, parked,
permitted to remain, stored, or left for no more than three (3) days.
      3.   Definitions: For the purposes of this subdivision, an inoperable or
abandoned motor vehicle means a motor vehicle as defined in Minnesota Statutes
Section 168B.011, subdivision 2 and in a condition described by one (1) of the
following:
         a.   On public property for a period of more than forty-eight (48)
hours, or more than four (4) hours when it is properly posted, or in violation
of either this Code or Minnesota Statutes;
         b.   On private property without consent of the person in control of
the property;
         c.   Disabled: meaning partially or completely dismantled or appearing
either to be undrivable or to be lacking any of those parts of a motor vehicle
which are essential to the functioning of the vehicle to the extent of making
the vehicle inoperable, unless allowed under subsection 4 of this Section;
         d.   Without license plates;
         e.   With license plates which have an expiration date more than
ninety (90) days prior to the date of inspection; or
         f.   An abandoned motor vehicle shall also mean a motor vehicle as
defined in Minnesota Statutes Section 168B.011, subdivision 2, which has
remained in the impound lot of a towing company, licensed by the City, for more
than thirty (30) days after a written notice to remove the motor vehicle has
been sent by registered mail to the registered owner.
      4.   Exemptions: For the purpose of this Chapter, the following vehicles
are not to be considered abandoned motor vehicles:
         a.   A classic or pioneer car, as defined in Minnesota Statutes
Section 168.10, provided that it is kept secure and as long as it has
substantial potential for further use consistent with its usual functions;
         b.   Vehicles on the premises of a motor vehicle and parts dealer,
junkyard, junk dealer, motor vehicle salvage dealer, automobile repair garage
or body shop which is authorized by this Code;
         c.   A vehicle kept inside an enclosed garage or storage building; or
         d.   A vehicle which is registered to the owner or occupant of the
property, and which is being kept for repair on the property, provided that the
vehicle is not kept for longer than ninety (90) days in a disabled condition
and its condition does not present a hazard and provided that only one (1)
disabled vehicle is kept on the property.
      5.   Removal and Disposal: If a vehicle fails to meet any of the above
requirements, the owner or possessor of the vehicle will be responsible for
removing the vehicle to a duly licensed junkyard or other authorized place of
deposit or storage following receipt of a written demand by the City. In the
event the owner or possessor of the vehicle cannot be located, then it will be
the responsibility of the owner of the premises to remove the vehicle to a duly
licensed junkyard or other authorized place of deposit or storage.
      6.   Impoundment of Vehicles: The City may take into custody and impound
any vehicle in violation of a provision of the Code, following the expiration
of the notice.
      7.   Disposition of Impounded Vehicles: In all cases of impoundment, the
City shall serve notice on the owner of the property pursuant to Minnesota
Statutes Section 168B.06. The owner or lienholder may reclaim the vehicle
pursuant to Minnesota Statutes Section 168B.07. If the vehicle is not
reclaimed, it may be disposed of at auction or sale pursuant to Minnesota
Statutes Section 168B.08.
§ 4-1-5: BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND APPEARANCE:
   A.   General Rule: Buildings, fences and other structures that have been so
poorly maintained that their physical condition and appearance detract from the
surrounding neighborhood are declared to be public nuisances because they: are
unsightly; decrease adjoining landowners and occupants’ enjoyment of their
property and neighborhood; and adversely affect property values and
neighborhood patterns.
   B.   Standards: A building, fence or other structure is a public nuisance if
it does not comply with the following requirements:
      1.   No part of any exterior surface may have deterioration, holes,
breaks, gaps, loose or rotting boards or timbers.
      2.   Every exterior surface that has had a surface finish such as paint
applied must be maintained to avoid noticeable deterioration of the finish. No
wall or other exterior surface may have peeling, cracked, chipped or otherwise
deteriorated surface finish on more than twenty percent (20%) of:
         a.   Any one (1) wall or other flat surface; or
         b.   All door and window moldings, eaves, gutters, and similar
projections on any one (1) side or surface.
      3.   No glass, including windows and exterior light fixtures, may be
broken or cracked, and no screens may be torn or separated from moldings.
      4.   Exterior doors and shutters must be hung properly and have an
operable mechanism to keep them securely shut or in place.
      5.   Cornices, moldings, decorative trim, lintels, sills, bay, or dormer
windows and similar projections must be kept in good repair and free from
cracks and defects that make them hazardous or unsightly.
      6.   Roof surfaces must be tight and have no defects that admit water.
All roof drainage systems must be secured and hung properly.
      7.   Chimneys, antennae, air vents and other similar projections must be
structurally sound and in good repair. These projections must be secured
properly, where applicable, to an exterior wall or exterior roof.
      8.   Decks, landings, platforms, porches, and other similar architectural
elements must be structurally sound and in good repair.
§ 4-1-6: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Emergency abatement: Whenever the City is made aware of the existence
of a public nuisance, the City will cause to be inspected the property on which
it is alleged that such a public nuisance exists. Should the enforcement
officer determine that a public nuisance exists and that the public health,
safety or welfare may be in immediate danger, then emergency abatement
procedures will be implemented, and the City may cause the nuisance to be
removed or abated. When emergency abatement is authorized, notice to the owner,
agent or occupant of the property is not required. Following emergency
abatement, the City will post a notice on the property describing the action
taken to abate the nuisance.
   B.   Abatement; notice:
      1.   General Rule: If, after inspecting the property, the enforcement
officer declares the existence of a public nuisance, but the nature of the
nuisance is not such as to require emergency abatement of the nuisance, then
regular abatement procedures will be followed.
      2.   Notice:
         a.   In cases where emergency abatement of a public nuisance is not
required, the enforcement officer will serve a notice on the owner or
responsible party, by regular mail, or by personal service, ordering the owner
or responsible party to remove the public nuisance. The notice will contain the
following information:
            (1)   Description of the property upon which the nuisance is
situated;
            (2)   The nature of the nuisance to be abated;
            (3)   State that in the event the owner or responsible party does
not comply with the notice, the necessary work may be performed by the City;
            (4)   State that if the owner or responsible party does not pay for
the expense, the cost of the work will be assessed against the property; and
            (5)   A compliance deadline. The notice will require that the
public nuisance must be removed within forty-eight (48) hours after the date of
receipt of the notice unless another compliance deadline is stated.
         b.   If the owner of the property or responsible party cannot be
found, the notice will be posted on the property for a period of forty-eight
(48) hours, after which period, the City may perform any necessary work. Notice
by regular mail and notice by posting may be done simultaneously.
   C.   Disclosure of Responsible Party:
      1.   Upon the request of the enforcement officer, an owner or responsible
party shall disclose the name of any other owner or responsible party known.
This shall include the person for whom they are acting, from whom they are
leasing the property, to whom they are leasing the property, or with whom they
have any conveyancing contract.
      2.   An owner or responsible party shall, upon the request of the
enforcement officer, provide the officer with access to all interior portions
of any occupied or unoccupied building in order to permit the officer to make a
complete inspection.
   D.   Authority to Abate:
      1.   The enforcement officer is authorized to enter in or upon any
property or structure for the purpose of enforcing and ensuring compliance with
the provisions of this Section.
      2.   If the public nuisance has not been removed or resolved by the
compliance deadline, the City has the authority to enter upon the property and
abate the public nuisance. In abating the nuisance, the City may go to whatever
extent necessary to complete the abatement of the public nuisance, including
obtaining a court order. The City may call upon any of the City departments or
divisions for whatever assistance is deemed necessary or may by private
contract cause the abatement of the public nuisance. If any material derived
from the abatement is salvageable, and no notice of appeal is received by the
City pursuant to subsection G below, the City may sell or dispose of the
property pursuant to the Disposition of Unclaimed Property City Code Section
1-6-1.
   E.   Abatement Invoice: If the City performs the work pursuant to subsection
D.2 above, the City will maintain a record showing the cost of the work
attributable to each separate lot and parcel, including administrative costs.
Abatement costs shall include, but are not limited to, the cost of the
abatement, the cost of investigation, such as title searches, inspection and
testing, the cost of notification, filing costs, City staff time, legal fees,
and an overhead charge of up to twenty-five percent (25%) for administrative
costs. The invoice shall be due and payable within thirty (30) days of the date
of the invoice.
   F.   Assessment of Unpaid Invoices: Failure to pay an invoice for a public
nuisance violation may result in the costs being assessed against the property
pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 429.
   G.   Appeals. An owner or responsible party may appeal by following the
procedures set forth in City Code Section
1-3-4. Any personal property of value or salvageable property coming into
possession of the City during the course of the abatement pursuant to
subsection D.2 above will be stored by the City pending the outcome of the
appeal.
CHAPTER 2: MIXED SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING
Section
4-2-1: Intent
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: License Required
4-2-4: Categories and Number of Licenses
4-2-5: Application for License
4-2-6: General Conditions for Licenses
4-2-7: Conditions Specific to Residential Dwelling Solid Waste Hauler and
Recycler Licenses
4-2-8: Conditions Specific to Commercial/Multiple-Residential Dwelling/
Industrial/Roll-Off Service Solid Waste Hauler and Recycler Licenses
4-2-9: Renewal of Licenses
4-2-10: General Disposal Requirements
4-2-11: Containers
4-2-12: Scavenging
4-2-13: Composting
4-2-14: Prohibited Acts and Conditions
4-2-15: Exemptions from Provisions
§ 4-2-1: INTENT:
   It is the intent of the City Council, by means of this Chapter, to establish
a system of solid waste management throughout the City so that the disposal of
such materials is accomplished in a sanitary manner, so that the health and
sanitary conditions of the residents of the City shall be properly safeguarded,
and so that the City is in compliance with the City’s 2040 Comprehensive Plan,
the Washington County solid waste management master plan and any updates to
those plans approved by the City or the County and with the State and the
County recycling and solid waste reduction mandates. In addition, the City
Council intends to establish a volume-based refuse collection system in order
to improve waste management within the City.
§ 4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   BULKY WASTE: Shall have the meaning set forth in Minnesota Statutes and is a
subset of mixed municipal solid waste. Includes household items and other
discarded materials that due to their dimensions and weight are typically not
collected as part of the regular trash and recycling or for which there is a
separate fee, such as furniture, carpeting, mattresses, and appliances
including electronic devices.
   BULK REFUSE CONTAINER: Refuse container greater than ninety-six (96) gallons
that is designed or engineered to collect refuse and other mixed municipal
solid waste. Bulk refuse containers are constructed of durable material and
have enclosed sides.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT: Any premises where a commercial or industrial
enterprise of any kind is carried on, and shall include, but is not limited to,
restaurants, clubs, churches, and schools where food is prepared or served.
   COMMERCIAL/MULTIPLE-RESIDENTIAL DWELLING / INDUSTRIAL / ROLL-OFF SERVICE
SOLID WASTE HAULER AND RECYCLER: A City licensed hauler who collects and hauls
solid waste, including, but not limited to, garbage, recyclable materials, and
construction/demolition waste, from commercial, multiple-residential dwelling
and industrial properties or who provides roll-off box services.
   COMMINGLED RECYCLABLES: Collection of recyclable materials whereby
generators mix different types of recyclable materials in a single container
for collection by a licensed hauler.
   COMPOSTING: A method of recycling yard waste by allowing it to decay and
then using it as a soil amendment.
   CONSTRUCTION/DEMOLITION WASTE: Construction materials, packaging and rubble
resulting from construction, remodeling, repair and demolition of buildings and
roads, as well as sand, earth, brick, stone, crockery, trees, tree branches of
more than two inches (2") in diameter and tree stumps.
   CONTAINER: All containers for solid waste shall be made of metal, plastic,
or other suitable material, which is rodentproof, fireproof, and waterproof,
can be kept tightly closed, will not easily corrode and shall be of such size
and weight that they can be handled by one (1) person. No container shall have
ragged or sharp edges or other defect liable to hamper or injure the person
collecting the contents thereof.
   COUNTY: County of Washington, Minnesota.
   DAILY HAULING DISTRICT: A residential area in which garbage, recyclables and
yard waste are collected on the same day, the boundaries and day of collection
of which are established by Council resolution.
   DUMPSTER: Large covered containers for large accumulations of garbage,
recyclables or construction/demolition debris, including compactors.
   GARBAGE: See definition of Mixed Municipal Solid Waste (MMSW).
   HAZARDOUS WASTE: Shall have the meaning defined in Minnesota Statutes and
includes any refuse, sludge, or other waste material or combinations of refuse,
sludge or other waste materials in solid, semisolid, liquid, or contained
gaseous form which because of its quantity, concentration, or chemical,
physical, or infectious characteristics may: (a) cause or significantly
contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible,
or incapacitating reversible illness; or (b) pose a substantial present or
potential hazard to human health or the environment when improperly treated,
stored, transported, or disposed of, or otherwise managed. Categories of
hazardous waste materials include, but are not limited to explosives,
flammables, oxidizers, poisons, irritants, and corrosives. Hazardous waste does
not include source, special nuclear, or byproduct material as defined by the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
   HOLIDAYS: Shall include only New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July,
Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
   MIXED MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE (MMSW): Has the meaning set forth in Minnesota
Statutes and shall include garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash, and other solid
waste from residential, commercial, industrial, and community activities, that
the generator of the waste aggregates for collection. MMSW does not include
auto hulks, street sweepings, ash, construction debris, mining waste, sludges,
tree and agricultural wastes, tires, lead acid batteries, motor and vehicle
fluids and filters, and other materials collected, processed, and disposed of
as separate waste streams. Also commonly referred to as “garbage”.
   MULTIPLE-RESIDENTIAL DWELLING: Any building used for residential purposes
consisting of five (5) dwelling units or more with separate individual kitchen
facilities for each dwelling unit.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS: Shall have the meaning set forth in Minnesota Statutes
and means materials that are separated from MMSW for the purpose of recycling
or composting, including, at a minimum, the targeted materials.
   RECYCLING: Shall have the definition in Minnesota Statutes and means the
process of collecting and preparing recyclable materials and reusing the
materials in their original form or using them in manufacturing processes that
do not cause the destruction of recyclable materials in a manner that precludes
further use.
   RECYCLING CONTAINER: A container for use in the City’s authorized curbside
recycling program.
   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING: Any single building consisting of four (4) or less
dwelling units with individual kitchen facilities for each dwelling unit.
   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING SOLID WASTE HAULER AND RECYCLER: A City licensed hauler
who collects and hauls solid waste, including, but not limited to, garbage,
recyclable materials, and construction/demolition waste, from residential
dwellings.
   ROLL-OFF CONTAINERS: Open top dumpsters characterized by a rectangular
footprint. The container is designed to be transported by special roll-off
trucks. ROLL-OFF CONTAINERS are commonly used to contain loads of construction
and demolition waste or other waste types.
   SOLID WASTE: The general term for MMSW, recyclable materials, yard waste,
bulky waste and SSCM.
   SOURCE SEPARATED COMPOSTABLE MATERIALS (SSCM): Shall include food waste and
other compostable organic materials that are source separated by the waste
generator for the purpose of preparing them for use as compost and as further
defined in Minnesota Statutes. Also referred to as “food waste”, “organics” and
“source separated organics”. The terms “food waste”, “organics” and “source
separated compostable materials” do not include yard waste for purposes of this
Chapter.
   SPECIAL PICK UP: Any collection of bulky waste and construction/demolition
waste and excludes MMSW, recyclable materials, yard waste or SSCM.
   TARGETED RECYCLABLE MATERIALS: Those recyclable materials identified in the
Washington County standard list of residential curbside recyclables.
   VOLUME BASED BILLING: A graduated rate structure based upon the volume of
MMSW, recyclable materials, SSCM collected from a residential dwelling,
multiple-residential dwellings, or a commercial enterprise.
   YARD WASTE: Garden wastes, leaves, grass and lawn clippings, weeds, shrub,
tree waste and other materials as defined by Minnesota Statutes and Council
Resolution.
§ 4-2-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   No person shall scavenge or otherwise haul or collect solid wastes including
MMSW, recyclable materials, bulky wastes, SSCM, or yard wastes for hire from
public or private property, including residential, commercial, institutional or
other uses, unless licensed therefor by the City. However, nothing in this
Chapter shall prevent persons from hauling MMSW, recyclables, construction/
demolition waste, bulky waste, SSCM or yard waste from their own residence or
business in accordance with this Chapter.
§ 4-2-4: CATEGORIES AND NUMBER OF LICENSES:
   A.   Categories of Licenses: There shall be two (2) license categories:
      1.   Residential dwelling solid waste hauler and recycler.
      2.   Commercial/multiple-residential dwelling/industrial/roll-off service
solid waste hauler and recycler.
   B.   Number of Licenses: No more than three (3) residential dwelling solid
waste hauler and recycler licenses shall be issued under this Chapter at any
one (1) time.
§ 4-2-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Application: Any person desiring to be licensed as a residential
dwelling solid waste hauler and recycler or as a commercial/multiple-
residential dwelling/industrial/roll-off service solid waste hauler and
recycler shall make application to the City pursuant to Title 3 Chapter 1 of
the City Code. Each hauler operating under a separate name or identity,
regardless of whether the hauler entity is a business entity related to another
licensed hauler, shall apply for and obtain a separate license prior to
collecting any solid waste.
   B.   Vehicles and Equipment: The application shall include a list of
vehicles and equipment utilized by the hauler while operating in the City.
   C.   Residential Dwelling Solid Waste Hauler and Recycler Applicants:
Residential dwelling solid waste hauler and recycler applicants shall provide
the following information:
      1.   The volume based MMSW rate structure for thirty (30) gallon, sixty
(60) gallon, and ninety (90) gallon service and other offered services that
would be implemented during the licensed period; and
      2.   The recycling fee that would be implemented during the licensed
period.
§ 4-2-6: GENERAL CONDITIONS FOR LICENSES:
   All residential dwelling solid waste hauler and recycler and commercial/
multiple-residential dwelling/industrial/roll-off service solid waste hauler
and recycler licenses are subject to the following conditions:
   A.   Vehicles: The licensee must have watertight vehicles in good condition
to prevent loss in transit of liquid or solid cargo. The licensee’s vehicles
must also be sufficiently covered so that solid waste remains contained in the
vehicles and does not blow out of or fall out or off of the vehicles in
transit. The vehicles shall be kept clean and as free from offensive odors as
possible and not allowed to stand in any street longer than reasonably
necessary to collect garbage, recyclable materials, SSCM, yard waste, or
construction/demolition waste. Each vehicle may be inspected by the City, at
the City’s discretion, for conformance with this Chapter.
   B.   Spills and Leaks: The licensee shall also ensure that the collection
site is left free of litter and shall clean up solid or liquid spills or leaks
from vehicles within one (1) hour. Each of the licensee’s vehicles shall be
equipped with materials and equipment to aid in the cleanup of the spills and
leaks.
   C.   Missed Collections: Licensees must respond to missed collections,
regardless of the type of collection, within a reasonable time period.
   D.   Insurance: The licensee must maintain insurance coverage meeting the
minimum general liability coverage requirements, and liability coverage
requirements for each vehicle operated as part of the licensed activity, as
established by State Statute or City Council resolution, whichever is greater.
   E.   Display of License: Each vehicle for which a hauler’s license is issued
shall carry a copy of the license in the vehicle.
   F.   Records:
      1.   Report to County: Each licensed hauler shall compile and retain
MMSW, recyclable materials, bulky waste, SSCM and yard waste weight slips and
other data and report County required data to Washington County. In addition,
the licensed hauler shall furnish the City with copies of reports that are
submitted to the County when requested. Failure to keep accurate weights and/or
to furnish this data to the County or the City within thirty (30) business days
of it being due shall entitle the City to suspend or revoke the hauler’s
license.
      2.   City Access to Records: Upon demand of the City, each licensed
hauler shall produce any records which the City may require to verify that all
MMSW, recyclables, bulky waste, SSCM and yard waste have been disposed of in a
lawful manner. Each licensed hauler shall provide to the City, during normal
business hours, access to books, documents, papers, and other records of the
licensee that are directly pertinent to the issuance and monitoring of the
license and required reports.
   G.   No Vested Right to License: No hauler licensed pursuant to this Chapter
shall acquire a vested right in a license. The City may, upon finding that
public necessity requires, determine to establish other means of solid waste
collection.
   H.   MMSW: Each licensee shall provide its customers with weekly collection
of MMSW or more frequently as required by its customers.
   I.   Recycling: Each licensee shall provide its customers with the
opportunity to recycle through a weekly collection of “recyclable materials”
(as defined in Section
4-2-2 of this Chapter or by City Council resolution). The collection of
recyclable materials shall be on the same day as collection of customers’ MMSW
and other refuse but may occur at a different time during that same day. The
recyclable materials collection shall be from a location at or near the
customer’s MMSW and other refuse collection site, or at such other location as
mutually agreeable to the hauler and the customer. No provision in this Chapter
shall be construed to prevent the licensee from offering curbside collection
for other recyclable materials in addition to the targeted recyclable
materials.
   J.   Right to Refuse Collection: The licensee may refuse to make collection
from any premises when the fees are not paid within thirty (30) days from the
billing date. The licensee shall notify the Director of Public Works or their
designee of the discontinuation of service to any premises within two (2) days
after service is discontinued.
   K.   Participation in City Tests: The licensee shall participate with the
City in tests to confirm the methodology and accuracy of the estimated weight
of waste and recyclable materials and participation of residents in the
recycling programs.
   L.   Hours: No collection of solid waste or construction/demolition waste
shall be made except between the hours of six o’clock (6:00) A.M. and six
o’clock (6:00) P.M., Monday through Friday. Operation during these hours may
require that service be delayed one (1) day to accommodate holidays.
§ 4-2-7: CONDITIONS SPECIFIC TO RESIDENTIAL DWELLING SOLID WASTE HAULER AND
RECYCLER LICENSES:
   A.   Collection Days: Licensed haulers shall collect and haul solid waste
from residential dwellings as established by the daily hauling districts. The
licensee shall notify customers of a specific day for collection of their solid
waste consistent with the daily hauling district in which the customer is
located.
   B.   Collection Frequency: Licensed haulers shall make weekly collection of
solid waste for all residential dwelling accounts within the daily hauling
districts on the days as established by Council resolution.
   C.   Rates:
      1.   Volume Based Pricing: Every licensee’s rates shall include a volume
based MMSW rate structure for the following services (other services may be
provided):
         a.   Thirty (30) gallon service.
         b.   Sixty (60) gallon service.
         c.   Ninety (90) gallon service.
   The licensee may offer the owner other services in addition to MMSW
collection and hauling.
      2.   Rate Changes: Every licensee shall provide notification to the
customer and the City at least two (2) weeks prior to any change in the rates
submitted with the application that will be implemented during the licensed
period.
   D.   Recycling:
      1.   Service: The licenses shall provide curbside recycling to all
accounts and collect, at a minimum, the targeted materials.
      2.   Fees: The licensee must also include a specific line item on the
owner’s billing statement that reflects the amount charged to the owner for
recycling. In accordance with State law, no residential customer may be charged
more for recycling service than a residential customer who does not recycle.
   E.   Special Pick Up: Residential “special pick up” as defined in Section
4-2-2 of this Chapter may take place on any day, Monday through Saturday, six
o’clock (6:00) A.M. to six o’clock (6:00) P.M., as arranged by the property
owner and licensee.
§ 4-2-8: CONDITIONS SPECIFIC TO COMMERCIAL/MULTIPLE-RESIDENTIAL DWELLING/
INDUSTRIAL/ROLL-OFF SERVICE SOLID WASTE HAULER AND RECYCLER LICENSES:
   A.   Collection Frequency: Licensees shall make weekly collection of solid
waste for all accounts at least once or more frequently as is necessary to
protect the public’s health.
   B.   Recycling: Licensees shall provide recycling collection to all
accounts. At a minimum, licensees shall collect the targeted materials. Nothing
in this Chapter shall be interpreted to prevent licensees from collecting other
materials in addition to the targeted materials.
   C.   Special Pick Up: Commercial “special pick up” as defined in Section
4-2-2 of this Chapter may take place on any day, Monday through Saturday, six
o’clock (6:00) A.M. to six o’clock (6:00) P.M., as arranged by the property
owner and licensee.
§ 4-2-9: RENEWAL OF LICENSES:
   A.   Residential Dwelling Hauler and Recycler Licenses: In order to renew a
residential dwelling hauler and recycler license, the licensee must have at
least two hundred (200) active accounts and must submit a list of all active
accounts with its application and fee for renewal.
   B.   All Licenses: In order to renew any license issued pursuant to this
Chapter, the licensee must not have any outstanding City fees, State solid
waste fees or County solid waste fees.
§ 4-2-10: GENERAL DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Disposal Required: All property owners are required to make adequate
provisions for the sanitary disposal of solid waste by means of a licensed
private hauler. However, residents of residential dwelling units may dispose of
solid waste and construction/demolition waste in a manner which conforms to
City and County ordinances and State Statutes.
   B.   MMSW (Garbage): Property owners shall contract with a licensed private
hauler to collect and haul MMSW to a State licensed and/or County approved
processing or disposal site in accordance with State and County rules and
regulations.
   C.   Recyclable Materials: All separated recyclable materials must be
transported to a licensed recycling facility or delivered to an end market for
sale or reuse or brought to an intermediate collection center for later
delivery to a licensed processing center or end market for recycling. It is
unlawful for any person to transport for disposal or to dispose of designated
recyclables in an MMSW disposal facility. No separated recyclables may be mixed
with another waste material or incinerated or landfilled or composted or made
into fuel pellets.
   D.   Bulky Waste: Bulky waste must be disposed of by contracting with a
licensed private hauler to haul the waste to a State licensed or County
approved processing or disposal site.
   E.   Yard Waste:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of yard waste into
the MMSW, recyclable material, or bulky waste streams. Yard waste shall be
disposed of by:
         a.   Contracting with a City licensed hauler to haul the yard waste to
a properly permitted or licensed compost site;
         b.   The resident transporting the yard waste to a compost site; or
         c.   Composting the yard waste on the resident’s property.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for a licensed private hauler to dispose of
yard waste into the MMSW, recyclable materials, SSCM, or bulky waste stream.
   F.   SSCM: It shall be unlawful for any person to permit SSCM to be removed
from the property by an unlicensed hauler. A hauler of MMSW may also be
licensed for SSCM.
   G.   Disposal by Licensed Hauler: It shall be unlawful for any person to
permit solid waste and construction and demolition waste to be removed from the
property by an unlicensed hauler.
   H.   Recycling:
      1.   Residents of residential dwelling units are strongly encouraged to
separate recyclable materials from the waste stream for recycling.
      2.   Owners and occupants of commercial buildings shall comply with
Minnesota Statutes and recycle at least three (3) types of material.
   I.   Rules And Regulations:
      1.   The Director of Public Works shall have the authority to make
regulations concerning days of collection, type and location of containers,
recyclable materials to be collected and such other matters pertaining to the
collection, conveyance and disposal as necessary, and to change and modify the
same after notice as required by law; provided, however, that such regulations
are not contrary to the provisions of this Chapter.
      2.   The Director of Public Works shall have the authority to make such
other reasonable regulations concerning individual collection and disposal and
relating to the hauling of other solid waste over City streets by outside
haulers as necessary.
   J.   Payment of Rates: The expense of garbage, recyclable materials, yard
waste, bulky waste, and construction/demolition waste collection and
processing/disposal shall be paid to the hauler by the owner, agent, occupant,
or tenant of the premises from which they are collected. Such fees shall be
full compensation for the hauler’s services and in no event shall hauler seek
payment from the City.
§ 4-2-11: CONTAINERS:
   A.   Containers Required:
      1.   Garbage Containers:
         a.   All residential dwelling property owners shall provide one (1) or
more containers to hold and contain all MMSW required by the City which may
accumulate between times of collection.
         b.   Owners of commercial/multiple-residential dwellings/industrial
establishments shall provide one (1) or more containers to hold and contain all
garbage required by the City which may accumulate between times of collection.
         c.   Dumpster Required: Where garbage volume exceeds three (3) 90-
gallon containers per week, dumpster service shall be utilized with the
frequency of pick up being not less than once per week. The actual size of the
dumpster or the frequency of pick up shall be determined by need as established
by the Director of Public Works. The dumpster shall be a watertight receptacle
with a tightfitting cover to prevent exposure of its contents to potential fly
or vermin infestation.
      2.   Recyclable Materials Containers:
         a.   Residential Dwellings: All owners of residential dwellings shall
provide one (1) or more containers to receive and collect all recyclable
materials required by the City which may accumulate between times of
collection.
         b.   Commercial/Multiple-Residential Dwellings/Industrial
Establishments: All owners of commercial, multiple-residential dwellings and
industrial establishments are required to provide containers for tenants to
deposit recyclable materials for collection by a licensed hauler.
         c.   Dumpster Required: For all commercial, multiple-residential
dwellings and industrial establishments where the volume exceeds three (3) 90-
gallon containers per week, the owner shall utilize dumpster service with the
frequency of pick up being not less than once per week. The actual size of the
dumpster or the frequency of pick up shall be determined by need as established
by the Director of Public Works. The dumpster shall be a watertight receptacle
with a tightfitting cover to prevent exposure of its contents to potential fly
or vermin infestation.
      3.   Roll-Off Containers:
         a.   Permit Required: The property owner shall secure at least one (1)
roll-off container at any construction or demolition site. The owner shall pay
the permit fee set forth by ordinance. In the event there is an open building
permit for the property, no permit fee is required.
         b.   Storage: No solid wastes or construction/demolition waste,
whether generated at the site or elsewhere, shall be stored outside the roll-
off container.
         c.   Collection: The roll-off container shall be emptied within seven
(7) days of the container being filled to capacity. Property owners and their
contractors shall be responsible for cleaning up and disposing of construction
debris carried by the elements onto neighboring property.
      4.   Composting Containers: Containers shall be of a durable material
including, but not limited to, sturdy woven wire fencing, rot resistant wood,
or a commercially purchased composting unit which will provide for adequate
aeration. Containers shall be constructed and maintained in a structurally
sound manner. Wood used in the construction of a compost container must be
sound and free of rot.
      5.   Yard Waste Containers: All yard waste to be picked up by a licensed
hauler shall be placed in a container or in separate compostable bags in
compliance with Minnesota Statutes and shall not contain garbage, recyclable
materials, SSCM or construction/demolition waste.
   B.   Storage And Placement of Containers:
      1.   Location for Residential Dwellings: Residential dwelling MMSW and
recyclable materials, when not placed for collection by the hauler, shall be so
located as to be out of public view in a secure place insofar as possible.
      2.   Location for Commercial, Multiple-Residential Dwellings, Industrial:
Commercial / multiple-residential dwellings/industrial MMSW and recyclable
materials containers shall be kept in a trash enclosure or building. All new
trash and recycling enclosures or buildings constructed in compliance with this
provision and all major alterations to such existing trash and recycling
enclosures and buildings shall be constructed in compliance with the provisions
relating to trash and recycling enclosure structures in subsection
11-3-8 of this Code. Bulky waste shall be contained within the enclosure.
      3.   Residential Dwelling Composting Containers: The compost container(s)
shall be located in the rear yard no closer than five feet (5') to any rear or
side property line and shall not be located closer than five feet (5') from the
rear property line and shall not be located in any required front or side yard
as defined in the zoning code, nor closer than twenty feet (20') to any
habitable building(s) located off of the owner’s property.
      4.   Yard Waste Containers: All yard waste when not placed for collection
by the hauler shall be so located as to be out of public view in a secure place
insofar as possible.
      5.   Roll-Off Containers: Roll-off containers must be located in an
accessible location on the owner’s property. In no event may a roll-off
container be located in the right-of-way.
      6.   Bulk Refuse Containers:
   C.   Bulk refuse containers may not remain at any residential location for
greater than thirty (30) days except under a building permit where work is
being actively performed. Bulk refuse containers shall not be used for the
storage or disposal of putrescible solid waste.
   D.   All bulk refuse containers will be clearly identified with the name of
licensed hauler and phone number. Letters must be a minimum of three inches
(3") in height and be clearly visible. All markings shall be maintained in
legible condition. Container must be in good condition and serviceable.
   E.   No bulk refuse containers may be placed in the right-of-way.
§ 4-2-12: SCAVENGING:
   It is unlawful for any person or business to scavenge or otherwise collect
garbage, recyclable materials, bulky waste, yard waste or construction/
demolition waste at the curb or from recyclable materials containers without a
license from the City and an account relationship with the owner of the
premises. The licensee is also deemed the owner of recyclable materials, and
upon collection, the licensee may market them.
§ 4-2-13: COMPOSTING:
   A.   Locations: Composting is permitted only on residential dwelling
properties.
   B.   Composting Area: The composting area must meet the following
conditions:
      1.   The compost must be contained, secure against vermin and excess
moisture and remain aerobic to allow for the decomposition of the material; and
      2.   The compost is screened from view of adjacent property owners in
containers and located pursuant to subsection
4-2-11.B.3 of this Chapter.
   C.   Compliance with State Law: Composting shall be accomplished in
compliance with Minnesota Statutes and the applicable administrative rules of
the Minnesota pollution control agency. Nothing contained in this Chapter
prohibits City licensed haulers from offering collection and disposal of yard
waste and SSCM at a properly licensed composting facility.
§ 4-2-14: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Unauthorized Accumulations: Any unauthorized accumulation of garbage,
recyclable materials, bulky waste, SSCM, yard waste or other solid waste or
litter on any premises is declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited.
“Unauthorized accumulation” shall consist of garbage, recyclable materials,
bulky waste, SSCM, yard waste, construction/demolition waste or litter in any
of the following circumstances:
      1.   Garbage or recyclable materials not stored in containers or
compostable bags in the case of yard waste because containers or compostable
bags are not being used or because containers are of insufficient size to hold
the garbage or recyclable materials.
      2.   Materials are not disposed of in conformance with this Chapter.
      3.   Construction and/or demolition waste is not removed from the
construction or demolition site within seven (7) days of the container being
filled to capacity.
   B.   Dumping Solid Waste: It shall be unlawful for any person to dump or
dispose of solid waste, construction and demolition waste or litter on any
land, whether privately or publicly owned, within the limits of the City.
   C.   Littering:
      1.   No person shall cast, place, sweep or deposit anywhere within the
City any garbage, recyclable materials, bulky waste, SSCM, yard waste, or
construction/demolition waste in such a manner that it may be carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer, parkway or
other public place or onto any property within the City.
      2.   No person shall place garbage, recyclable materials, bulky waste,
SSCM, yard waste, construction/demolition waste or other waste upon any street,
in any alley or other public place or upon any private property whether owned
by such person or not, unless it is in proper containers for collection or
under express approval granted by the Director of Public Works; nor shall any
person throw or deposit any garbage, recyclable materials, bulky waste, yard
waste, construction/demolition waste or other waste into any stream or other
body of water.
   D.   Theft of Service: No person shall deposit garbage, recyclable
materials, bulky waste, SSCM, yard waste, construction/demolition waste or
other refuse in a dumpster or roll-off container unless he or she is the owner,
occupant or authorized agent of the premises providing such dumpster or
container.
   E.   Burning: No burning or burying of solid waste, including garbage, bulky
waste, recyclable materials, SSCM or construction and demolition waste shall
occur on any property in the City that is not expressly licensed for that
activity.
§ 4-2-15: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
   Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent persons from hauling recyclable
materials, SSCM, yard waste, construction/demolition waste or bulky waste from
their own residences or commercial properties, provided the following rules are
observed: (a) recyclable materials, SSCM, yard waste or construction/demolition
waste are hauled in vehicles with leakproof bodies and completely covered or
enclosed by canvas or other means of material so as to completely eliminate the
possibility of loss of cargo; (b) that recyclable materials be disposed of at a
recycling facility, an organized recyclable materials drive or through a
licensed recyclable material hauler; and (c) that yard waste and SSCM may be
composted privately on residential dwelling properties, disposed of at a
properly licensed composting facility, or through a licensed residential
dwelling hauler and recycler or a licensed commercial/multiple-residential
dwelling/industrial hauler and recycler.
CHAPTER 3: PLANTS AND WEEDS
Section
4-3-1: Noxious Weeds and Plants; Height Restrictions
4-3-2: Abatement
§ 4-3-1: NOXIOUS WEEDS AND PLANTS; HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Noxious weeds as designated by state statute or the Minnesota
Commissioner of Agriculture, Poisonous Plants are Prohibited: It shall be
unlawful for any owner, tenant or occupant of land in the City to permit or
maintain noxious or poisonous weeds or plants on such land.
   B.   Plants and Weeds in Zoning Districts:
      1.   On platted or developed lands within the City limits it shall also
be unlawful to allow or permit any growth of grasses or weeds, to a height
greater than eight inches (8").
      2.   This subsection shall not apply to:
         a.   “Natural areas”, which shall be defined as densely wooded areas,
bogs, and marshes.
         b.   Buffer areas of surface waters including, but not limited to,
wetlands and stormwater ponds.
         c.   Land used for agricultural purposes.
         d   Steep slopes.
         e.   Nature preserves.
         f.   Scenic easements.
         g.   Parks and public open space.
         h.   Undeveloped property.
         i.   Vacant lots.
         j.   Overhead power and gas line easements, except on developed
residential lots.
         k.   Golf courses.
         l.   Areas that are planted and maintained using vegetation native to
Minnesota, areas that have been planted specifically to reduce the amount of
lawn watering necessary, or areas that have been planted to promote
infiltration.
         m.   As required under the Minn. Rules 6106.0150 Subp. 3.C., the
following areas, identified in the MRCCA plan, are exempt from the vegetation
ground cover height restriction:
            (1)   Shore impact zone (SIZ);
            (2)   Bluff impact zone (BIZ);
            (3)   Within 50 feet of a wetland or natural drainage way; or
            (4)   Areas of native plant communities and significant vegetative
stands.
         n.   Areas deemed similar to the above exceptions by the Community
Development Director. (Ord. 1066, 6-21-2023)
§ 4-3-2: ABATEMENT:
   Failure to comply with the provisions in Section
4-3-1 of this Chapter, may result in abatement of the nuisance pursuant to City
Code Section
4-1-6 .
CHAPTER 4: DISEASED TREES
Section
4-4-1: Purpose
4-4-2: Conflicting Provisions
4-4-3: Definition
4-4-4: Stockpiling Bark Bearing Wood
4-4-5: Inspections
4-4-6: Nuisance Conditions
§ 4-4-1: PURPOSE:
   It is the purpose of this Chapter to carry out and enforce the provisions of
Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 18G, as the same relates to the control of dutch
elm disease, oak wilt, and emerald ash borer disease.
§ 4-4-2: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
   Where the provisions of this Chapter conflict or are inconsistent with any
other ordinances of the City, the provisions of this Chapter shall supersede,
except in instances where one (1) regulation is more restrictive than another,
in which case the more restrictive Section shall apply and control.
§ 4-4-3: DEFINITION:
   For the purposes of this Chapter, “control area” shall be defined as any
portions of the City served by City sewer and water.
§ 4-4-4: STOCKPILING BARK BEARING WOOD:
   The stockpiling of bark bearing elm wood and wood infected with emerald ash
borer within the control limits of the City shall be permitted during the
period from October 15 through April 15 of any given year. Any such wood not
utilized by April 15 of any year must then be removed and disposed of as
provided by this Chapter and regulations incorporated hereby.
§ 4-4-5: INSPECTIONS:
   Inspections: The City may inspect any tree adjacent to or overhanging any
public street in the City to determine whether the same or any portion thereof
is in such a condition as to constitute a hazard or impediment to the progress
or vision of anyone traveling upon such public street, and may declare the tree
a Nuisance pursuant to Title 4, Chapter 1 of this Code.
§ 4-4-6: NUISANCE CONDITIONS:
   A.   Nuisances Enumerated: The following things are public nuisances
whenever they may be found within the City:
      1.   Any living or standing tree or part thereof infected to any degree
with a plant pest as defined by Minnesota Statutes Section 18G.02.
      2.   Any dead or diseased tree or part thereof, including logs, branches,
stumps, firewood or other elm material, from which the bark has not been
removed, chipped, or burned.
      3.   Any dead or diseased ash tree or part thereof, including logs,
branches, stumps, firewood, or other material found to harbor the emerald ash
borer, from which the bark has not been removed, chipped, or burned.
   B.   Abatement by City; Costs: If the owner of such property does not
correct or remove such nuisance the City may abate and assess the costs
pursuant to City Code Section
4-1-6.
CHAPTER 5: TREE CARE SERVICES
Section
4-5-1: Purposes
4-5-2: Definitions
4-5-3: Performance Standards
§ 4-5-1: PURPOSES:
   This Chapter is adopted for the purpose of protecting the health, safety and
welfare of the residents of the City.
§ 4-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   REGISTERED CHEMICAL: Any substance used in a fertilizer, pesticide,
herbicide or other chemical application that is registered by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency and/or licensed for use by the appropriate
State regulatory agency.
   TREE CARE SERVICES: Any person proposing to engage in the business of tree
care, tree trimming or removal of trees, limbs, brush, or shrubs, or to treat
trees, shrubs or vines.
§ 4-5-3: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   The following minimum requirements shall apply to all licensed tree care
services:
   A.   The service company must be registered on the tree care company
registry with the Department of Agriculture as required by Minnesota Statutes
Section 18G.07.
   B.   Signs:
      1.   Time for Posting: In order to protect people and domestic pets from
the possibly deleterious effects of toxic chemicals, any trees treated with
registered chemicals shall be posted for a period of not less than forty-eight
(48) hours following the application.
      2.   Specifications: Signs shall be posted on properties treated with
registered chemicals, and signs must meet the following specifications:
         a.   All signs shall bear the name, address and telephone number of
the applicator, as well as the date of the application.
         b.   All signs shall be in conformance with the City’s sign ordinance.
         c.   All signs shall include a warning substantially similar to the
following: This area has been chemically treated. Please keep children and pets
off for forty-eight (48) hours.
         d.   All signs must be of a rain resistant material and constructed
and placed in such a manner as to be clearly legible and provide sufficient
warning to anyone who may enter the treated area.
      3.   Number of Signs: The number of signs to be posted shall be
determined on the basis of one (1) sign placed at each access point to a
property, with a minimum of one (1) sign per yard.
   C.   Applying Chemicals: The service company shall apply all registered
chemicals in conformance with current Minnesota Department of Agriculture
regulations and in such a manner as to minimize water, soil and air pollution.
Spraying chemical fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides or other toxic chemicals
on any nonporous surface, such as a street or driveway, shall be prohibited.
   D.   Records: At the time of the application of any registered chemical, the
service company shall provide the property owner or tenant with a written
record of the following information: date of service, type of application,
brand names of all registered chemicals used, and the amount of chemical
applied (in pounds per square feet). A copy of this record of chemical
application shall be provided free of charge.
   E.   Supervision: All work involving registered chemicals shall be done or
supervised by an individual licensed by the Minnesota Department of
Agriculture.
CHAPTER 6: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: Open Burning
4-6-3: Duty to Report Fires and Evacuate Buildings
4-6-4: Fire Lanes
4-6-5: Tampering with Fire Hydrant
§ 4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   BURNING PERMIT: A permit issued by the City Fire Chief or designee,
authorizing fires exempted from the general provisions hereof and setting
conditions therefor.
   COMBUSTIBLE: Capable of being ignited and burning, combustible materials
include, but are not limited to, wood structures or building materials, trees,
brush, leaves, trash, and woodpiles.
   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS: A multi-family dwelling is any single structure
containing three (3) or more separate living quarters, whether condominiums,
townhouses, or apartments.
   NONCOMBUSTIBLE: Not capable of igniting and burning readily. Noncombustible
materials include masonry, brick, and metal.
   OPEN BURNING: Burning any matter whereby the resultant combustion products
are emitted directly to the open atmosphere without passing through a stack,
duct, or chimney of a type meeting specifications from time to time established
by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
§ 4-6-2: OPEN BURNING:
   A.   Open Burning Prohibited: Except as herein otherwise provided, open
burning is prohibited within the City.
   B.   Exemptions: Open burning of the types, and subject to the conditions,
as hereinafter stated, shall be exempt from the prohibition of subsection A of
this Section:
      1.   Open burning for outdoor food preparation:
         a.   Grilling is permitted at single-family dwellings, two-family
dwellings, and multi-family dwellings where all dwelling units have ground
level living areas.
         b.   Barbecues for the purpose of cooking food may be permitted at
multi-family dwellings if they are electric or gas fired barbecue grill,
permanently mounted and wired, or plumbed to the building’s gas supply or
electrical system. No multi-family dwelling owner, resident, or other person
shall set, kindle, maintain, or permit any fire or open flame on or under any
balcony or under any overhead wooden or combustible building projections of a
multi-family dwelling except as permitted by this subsection. No barbecue,
torch, or similar heating, cooking, burning, or lighting equipment or device
may be affixed to a deck or railing within five feet (5') of a multi-family
dwelling or apartment with wood or combustible siding, even though there is no
wooden deck or wooden projection above the open flame. The ignition device of
the barbecue must be an electric starter. The use of any igniting fluids,
pastes, or bricks is prohibited. The provisions of this subsection apply to
multi-family dwellings where one (1) or more dwelling units do not have ground
level living areas.
      2.   Recreational fires. Recreational fires are permitted on residential
property as provided below:
         a.   All recreational fires must be operated in compliance with the
requirements of this subsection. Recreational fires must be located at least
fifteen feet (15') away from any combustible structure and at least ten feet
(10') from any property line, unless a different location is approved by the
Fire Chief. Fires must be contained in a fire pit or enclosure that is
constructed from brick, masonry, metal, or other noncombustible material. Fires
must be no more than three feet (3') in diameter. Flame height must not exceed
three feet (3'). No trash, leaves, stumps, treated, painted, varnished, or
otherwise coated lumber may be burned. An adult must be in attendance and a
charged water hose or fire extinguisher must be readily available at all times.
Recreational fires are not permitted when area winds exceed fifteen (15) miles
per hour or when the Fire Chief has issued a no fire order. Fires must be
extinguished to the point of cold before being left unattended.
         b.   The Fire Chief may order any recreational fire to be immediately
extinguished if the fire poses a nuisance to surrounding residences. A nuisance
is deemed to exist if the fire generates flying embers that pose a hazard to
property or generates smoke or odors that unreasonably interfere with the use
or enjoyment of neighboring properties.
         c.   Fires under managed supervision, for which a burning permit has
been obtained from the City Fire Chief and, where required by State law, from
the Pollution Control Agency, but limited to, the following:
            (1)   Fires purposely set for the instruction and training of
public and industrial firefighting personnel.
            (2)   Fires set for the elimination of a fire hazard which cannot
be abated by any other practicable means.
            (3)   Fires purposely set for forest and game management purposes.
            (4)   The burning of trees, brush, grass and other vegetation in
the clearing of land, the maintenance of street, road and highway rights of
way, and in accepted agricultural land management practices.
      3.   Exemption to conduct fires under this subsection B does not excuse a
person from the consequences, damages or injuries which may result therefrom,
nor does it exempt any person from regulations promulgated by the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency or any other governmental unit exercising jurisdiction
in matters of pollution or fire hazard regulation.
§ 4-6-3: DUTY TO REPORT FIRES AND EVACUATE BUILDINGS:
   A.   Report of Fires: It shall be the duty of any person in control of a
church, school, multiple dwelling, place of business or any place of public
assembly, or any person under such person charged with responsibility for the
same, or any other person who observes the same, to immediately report smoke or
other evidence of fire in such church, school multiple dwelling, place of
business or any place of public assembly to the Fire Division of the City. It
shall be the duty of any occupant of any single-family residence to immediately
report to the Fire Division of the City any fire which endangers persons or
property.
   B.   Building Evacuation Required: Whenever a fire alarm sounds in any
church, school, multiple dwelling, place of business or place of public
assembly, every occupant of such building shall immediately vacate the
premises.
§ 4-6-4: FIRE LANES:
   A.   Purpose: Fire lanes shall be established for the purpose of allowing
unobstructed emergency access to a building for fire and other emergencies.
   B.   Lanes Established; Specifications: Fire lanes shall be established
either by order of the Fire Chief or by City Council resolution. The location
and size of the fire lane shall be designated and approved by the Fire Chief.
   C.   Signage:
      1.   Signs Required: When a fire lane has been ordered to be established
by the Fire Chief or Council resolution, it shall be marked by a permanently
affixed sign bearing the words “No Parking - Fire Lane” or a similar message.
      2.   Responsibility for Signs: When such fire lane is established on
public property or public right-of-way, the necessary sign or signs shall be
provided by the City, and when on private property, they shall be erected and
maintained by the owner at their expense.
      3.   Time Limit for Installation; Compliance: Such sign shall be
installed within thirty (30) days after notification of the order. Thereafter,
no person shall park a vehicle or otherwise occupy or obstruct a fire lane.
§ 4-6-5: TAMPERING WITH FIRE HYDRANT:
   No person, except an employee of the Department of Public Works, the Fire
Division or the Police Division of the City shall turn on or off or tamper
within any manner any fire hydrant located within the corporate limits of the
City, or draw or attempt to draw any water therefrom.
CHAPTER 7: NOISE
Section
4-7-1: General Prohibition
4-7-2: Definitions
4-7-3: Exceptions
4-7-4: Noisy Gatherings
4-7-5: Amplified Sound
4-7-6: Motor Vehicles
4-7-7: Loading and Unloading
4-7-8: Construction, Excavation, Repair and Demolition Activities
4-7-9: Animal Noise
4-7-10: Nuisance Factors
§ 4-7-1: GENERAL PROHIBITION:
   No person shall make or cause to be made or permit on property they own any
distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys, disturbs,
injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety, or welfare of
any person or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property’s
value. This general prohibition is not limited by the specific restrictions of
this Section. All noises in violation of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency
Rules, Chapter 7030, or as they may be amended, which are hereby incorporated
by reference into this Code, are prohibited.
§ 4-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
   Any other word or phrase used in this Chapter, and defined in regulations of
the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency Noise Pollution Control Rules, Chapter
7030, has the meaning given in those regulations.
   AIR CIRCULATION DEVICE: A mechanism designed and used for the controlled
flow of air used in ventilation, cooling, or conditioning, but not limited to
central and window air conditioning units.
   COMPRESSION RELEASE BRAKE: Includes the use of any engine retarding brake
system to alter the normal compression of the engine thereby converting the
engine into an air compressor for the purposes of braking without the use of
wheel brakes (commonly known as a “Jake brake”).
   DESIGNATED CITY HOLIDAY: Includes New Year’s Day (January 1), Memorial Day
(the last Monday in May), Independence Day (July 4), Labor Day (the first
Monday in September), Thanksgiving Day (the fourth Thursday in November), the
day after Thanksgiving Day (the fourth Friday in November), Christmas Eve
(December 24) and Christmas Day (December 25).
   POWER EQUIPMENT: Includes, and is not limited to, saws, jackhammers, nail
drivers, impact wrenches, air compressors, and domestic power maintenance
equipment including, but not limited to, lawn mowers, hedge clippers, grass/
weed trimmers, garden tillers, chain saws, leaf blowers, and woodchippers.
   UNNECESSARY OR EXCESSIVE NOISE: Any sound which because of its volume level,
duration, and character, annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort,
health, peace or safety of reasonable persons of ordinary sensibilities within
the limits of the City.
§ 4-7-3: EXCEPTIONS:
   The following uses, activities and other similar events specified below, but
not limited to, are exempted from this Chapter:
   A.   Snow removal motorized vehicles, equipment, and operations.
   B.   Equipment and vehicles used for maintenance of public or private golf
courses, public and private driving ranges, ice skating rinks on public
property, ski trail grooming on public property.
   C.   Golf carts for use on public or private golf courses.
   D.   Emergency backup generators operated during power outages and during
routine maintenance operations.
   E.   Repairs of utility structures, which are damaged, in disrepair, or out
of service and such condition poses a clear and immediate danger to life,
health, or significant loss of property.
   F.   All public projects performed by a governmental agency or their agents.
   G.   Outdoor shooting ranges, aquatic and outdoor recreation facilities on
public property.
   H.   Sirens, whistles, or bells lawfully used by emergency vehicles, or
other alarm systems used in case of fire, collision, civil defense, public
safety activity, or imminent danger, and all sounds associated with City
responses to emergency events.
   I.   Reasonable activities conducted on public playgrounds and public or
private school/university grounds, which are conducted in accordance with the
manner in which such spaces are generally used, including, but not limited to,
school/university athletic and school/university entertainment events.
   J.   Chiming of bells or other similar sounds produced by a religious
institution, school, or clock or bell tower.
   K.   Antitheft devices, burglar, and fire alarms.
   L.   Government sponsored activities. Certain activities related to public
entertainment, including, but not limited to, outdoor gatherings, public
dances, shows, Fourth of July fireworks, City sponsored concerts in public
parks, carnivals and parades, and other similar outdoor events.
   M.   Refrigeration units on delivery vehicles.
   N.   Street sweeping.
   O.   Agricultural equipment and machinery.
   P.   Construction, repair and demolition activities relating to the
following:
      1.   Refueling machinery and equipment.
      2.   Labor work not requiring the use of power equipment or tools.
      3.   Construction equipment repair.
      4.   Surveying.
      5.   Construction staking.
      6.   Delivery of equipment and materials.
      7.   Work preapproved by the City.
§ 4-7-4: NOISY GATHERINGS:
   A.   Hours: Between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o’clock
(7:00) A.M., no person shall congregate or participate in any party or
gathering of people from which noise emanates of sufficient volume to
unreasonably disturb the peace, quiet or repose of other persons, except as
allowed by the City.
   B.   Order to Disperse: A police officer may order all persons present at
such party or gathering other than the owners, residents or tenants to
immediately disperse. Any person who refuses to leave after being ordered to do
so is guilty of a violation of this Section.
   C.   Owner’s Responsibility: Any owner, tenant or resident of the building
or place who has legal authority to control the activities at the building or
place and who knows or has reason to know of the disturbance is responsible for
violations of this Section that occur at the building, place, or property.
§ 4-7-5: AMPLIFIED SOUND:
   A.   No person shall use, operate, or permit the use or operation of any
electronic sound system, audio equipment or any other device designed for the
production or reproduction of sound, in an unnecessary or excessive manner.
   B.   It shall be presumed that a violation of this Section has occurred when
any electronic sound system or audio equipment is operated in an unnecessary or
excessive manner, at a distance of fifty feet (50') or more, between the hours
of ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. It shall be presumed
that a violation of this Section has occurred when any electronic sound system
or audio equipment is operated in an unnecessary or excessive manner, at a
distance of one hundred feet (100') or more, between the hours of seven o’clock
(7:00) A.M. and ten o’clock (10:00) P.M.
§ 4-7-6: MOTOR VEHICLES:
   A.   No person shall use, operate or permit operation of any car, truck,
motorcycle, motorboat, all-terrain vehicle, snowmobile, recreational vehicle or
other motor vehicle in such a way that creates an unnecessary acceleration,
screeching tires, revving engines, or excessive noises.
   B.   No person shall engage in repair or service of any vehicle or other
equipment where the noise from that activity is audible beyond the property
lines on which the repair or servicing is being conducted between the hours of
ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) A.M.
   C.   No person shall intentionally use a compression release brake on a
public road, highway, street, parking lot, or alley located within the City
limits, except in an emergency.
   D.   When noise violating this Section is produced by an electronic sound
system or audio equipment that is located in or on a vehicle, the driver of the
vehicle and the person who owns or is in control of the vehicle is guilty of
the violation.
§ 4-7-7: LOADING AND UNLOADING:
   A.   Loading, unloading, opening, closing, or other handling of boxes,
crates, containers, building materials, refuse, or similar objects between the
hours of seven o’clock (7:00) P.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. shall not
create unnecessary or excessive noise. The driver of the vehicle and the person
who owns or is in control of the vehicle is guilty of the violation.
   B.   This Section does not apply to refuse hauling and/or recycling
collection operators licensed with the City. Licensed operators for refuse
hauling and recycling collection must comply with subsection
4-2-8 of this Title.
§ 4-7-8: CONSTRUCTION, EXCAVATION, REPAIR AND DEMOLITION ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Except as allowed in
4-7-8.H, the use of any mechanical or power equipment or tool operated by fuel,
battery or electric power in construction, repair or demolition is allowed
between the hours of seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) P.M.,
Monday through Friday and between the hours of nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. and
seven o’clock (7:00) P.M., Saturday.
   B.   Except as allowed in
4-7-8.H, the use of any mechanical or power equipment or tool operated by fuel
or electric power between the hours of seven o’clock (7:00) P.M. and seven
o’clock (7:00) A.M., Monday through Friday and between the hours of seven
o’clock (7:00) P.M. and nine o’clock (9:00) A.M., Saturday is allowed only if
the work is performed inside an enclosed building. Temporary enclosures
comprising of plastic sheeting, tarps or similar materials do not constitute an
enclosed building.
   C.   Except as allowed in
4-7-8.H, construction, repair and demolition activities are prohibited on
Sundays and designated City holidays, unless approved by the City.
   D.   All construction equipment powered by internal combustion engines shall
be properly muffled and maintained.
   E.   Unnecessary idling of internal combustion engines is prohibited.
   F.   All stationary noise generating construction equipment such as tree
grinders, power generators and air compressors are to be located as far as is
practical from existing residences.
   G.   Use of pile drivers, sources of impulsive sound and jackhammers shall
be prohibited on Sundays and designated City holidays, except for emergencies
or as approved in advance by the building official.
   H.   A residential property owner or tenants of residential property may
conduct construction activities and use power equipment on their residentially
used property on weekdays between seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o’clock
(10:00) P.M. and weekends and designated City holidays from eight o’clock (8:
00) A.M. to nine o’clock (9:00) P.M.
§ 4-7-9: ANIMAL NOISE:
   Animal noise is regulated by Title 5, Chapter 4, “Animal Control” of this
Code.
§ 4-7-10: NUISANCE FACTORS:
   The characteristics and conditions which shall be considered in determining
whether a noise unreasonably annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the
comfort, repose, health, peace, safety, or welfare of any person or precludes
their enjoyment of property or affects their property’s value for the purposes
of this subsection, shall include, without limitation, the following:
   A.   The time of day or night when the noise occurs;
   B.   The duration of the noise;
   C.   The proximity of the noise source to any location, such that it is
reasonably likely to interfere with the peace, quiet, repose or operation of
that property;
   D.   The land use, nature, and zoning of the area from which the noise
emanates and the area where it is perceived;
   E.   The number of people and their activities that are affected or are
likely to be affected by the noise; and
   F.   The sound peak pressure level of the noise, in comparison to the level
of ambient noise.
CHAPTER 8: ODORS
Section
4-8-1: Odors
§ 4-8-1: ODORS:
   A.   Definitions: The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this
Chapter shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      BEST PRACTICABLE ODOR CONTROL TECHNOLOGY: The utilization of those
technologies, processes, procedures, or operating methods by an industry,
facility, or source which results in the most cost-effective means of
mitigation of odors from an odor emission point source.
      CITY ENGINEER: The Cottage Grove City Engineer or his or her designee.
      CITY ADMINISTRATOR: The Cottage Grove City Administrator or his or her
designee.
      INITIAL TEST OR INITIAL TESTING: An odor test or series of tests
conducted in order to establish a baseline odor level.
      NASAL RANGER®: The Nasal Ranger® Field Olfactometer, a portable odor
detecting and measuring device developed by St. Croix Sensory or such
comparable device or technology that is approved by the City Council.
      ODOR: That which produces a response of the human sense of smell to an
odorous substance.
      ODOR COMPLAINT: A notification received by the City Administrator from a
person who identifies his or her name and address and the location,
description, and duration of the odor. The release of such information
regarding the identity of the complainant is governed by the Minnesota Statutes
Chapter 13, the Minnesota Government Data Practices Act.
      ODOR EMISSION: The release of offensive gases, fumes, and vapors into the
atmosphere by an industry, facility or source which is determined by the City
Administrator to cause unreasonable injury, nuisance, or annoyance to the
public.
      ODOR MANAGEMENT PLAN: A plan submitted by an industry, facility, or
source to the City.
      OWNER: The owner, operator, occupant, tenant, or other person who is
responsible for any operation, business, or profession, or who exercises
control over real property.
      PROPERTY: Any real property, premises, structure, or location within the
City.
      SIGNIFICANT ODOR GENERATOR: An industry, facility or source that
generates seven (7) verifiable odor complaints in a six-month period or that
the City Engineer has determined the industry, facility or source is the cause
of odor emissions resulting in significant odor complaints.
      VERIFIED ODOR COMPLAINT: That the City Administrator has confirmed the
industry, facility or source of the odor emission that precipitated the
complaint, by using the Nasal Ranger® to detect and measure odor. A dilution-
to-threshold ratio as measured by the Nasal Ranger® of seven (7) odor units or
above (or such comparable measurements for a different device or technology
that is approved by the City Council) is deemed to be a verified odor
complaint.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any owner of property located within the City
to cause or allow odor emissions that:
      1.   Create odors or smells which are offensive or obnoxious to another
person within the City;
      2.   Create a detrimental effect on the property of another person in the
City; or
      3.   Unreasonably interfere with the enjoyment of life, health, safety,
peace, comfort, or property of another person in the City.
   C.   Odor Testing: Odor testing may be conducted by the City or its
independent consultant on any property that may be a potential odor source.
Testing may be conducted based on complaints or based on a planned odor
monitoring study.
   D.   Designation As A Significant Odor Generator: After reviewing the
results of odor testing, if the property produces odor emissions that generate
seven (7) verifiable odor complaints in a six-month period, the City
Administrator may determine that a property shall be designated as a
significant odor generator and shall notify the property owner of the
designation.
   E.   Appeal: Any property that is designated as a significant odor generator
may file an appeal in writing by following the process contained in Section 1-
3-4. The hearing officer's decision is final and may only be appealed to the
Minnesota Court of Appeals.
   F.   Odor Management Plan:
      1.   If the property is designated as a significant odor generator, then
within ninety (90) days of notice of designation by the City Administrator, the
property owner shall work with the City Administrator to develop an odor
management plan using the best practicable odor control technology in order to
mitigate and comply with this chapter. The City Administrator may grant an
extension for up to an additional ninety (90) days to submit the odor
management plan, upon sufficient evidence and cause for such extension. The
odor management plan shall:
         a.   Identify and explain the odor source(s);
         b.   Describe the best practicable odor control technology to manage
the odors generated;
         c.   Provide a detailed plan on any proposed operational changes to
existing odor control equipment in order to control and mitigate the odors
being generated;
         d.   Establish a timeline for development and implementation of any
engineer-approved treatment technology, which includes monitoring
instrumentation and equipment to ensure future compliance; and
      e.   Be kept on file with the City.
   G.   Compliance:
      1.   Compliance shall be achieved when the property owner has completed
the installation, start-up, and operation of the best practicable odor control
technology in accordance with the odor management plan and follow-up testing
has determined the results have significantly improved since the initial test.
      2.   At such time that the property has achieved compliance with the odor
management plan and has received no verifiable odor complaints for a period of
twelve (12) months, the property shall be removed from the odor generator
classification.
   H.   Non-Compliance: If the City Administrator determines after follow-up
testing that the results at the property have not improved, or if odor
complaints continue, the property owner shall be required to meet with the City
Administrator on at least a quarterly basis to develop a new odor management
plan. Such meetings and follow-up testing shall continue until the City
Administrator determines that the results at the property have improved. If
non-compliance continues for a period of twelve (12) months, the City may
impose penalties pursuant to this Chapter.
   I.   Re-Classification As A Significant Odor Generator: A property that was
previously classified as a significant odor generator but was removed from the
classification due to compliance may be re-classified as a significant odor
generator if it generates three (3) verifiable odor complaints in a 90-day
period. It shall then be required to comply with Section F. establishing a new
odor management plan and Section H. requiring quarterly meetings. A property
reclassified as a significant odor generator will not be removed from the
classification until it meets the compliance requirements in Section G.
   J.   Penalty: Failure to comply with the requirements in this chapter or
failure to meet the obligations contained in the odor management plan, unless
the failures are determined by the City Administrator to be beyond the control
of the significant odor generator or the result of an accident or unexpected
and unforeseen events, shall result in a criminal citation or the City may
pursue any other legal or equitable remedies available to the City. In
addition, any follow-up testing required due to compliance failure shall be
paid for by the property owner.
(Ord. 1090, 12-4-2024)
TITLE 5: POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
5-1-1: Minnesota Criminal Code Adopted by Reference; Penalty
5-1-2: Disturbing the Peace
5-1-3: Drug Paraphernalia
5-1-4: Purchase, Sale and Possession of Catalytic Converters
5-1-5: Procurement of Third-Party Gift Cards
5-1-6: Cannabis Use On Public Property And In Public Places
5-1-7: Underage Possession, Use Or Consumption Of Cannabis Products
§ 5-1-1: MINNESOTA CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE; PENALTY:
   Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Minnesota Criminal Code (Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 609), are
hereby adopted by the City. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered
violations of this Chapter, and each such violation shall subject the violator
thereof to the penalty provisions under Title 1, Chapter 3 of this Code.
§ 5-1-2: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the limits of the City to disturb
the peace and quiet of any street, neighborhood, family of persons, any meeting
of persons for a lawful purpose or any public place or commercial
establishment, by singing, shouting, screaming, obscene or profane language or
conversation, by swearing, quarreling, scolding, cursing, challenging,
assaulting or offensive or indecent language, or by any device or pretense
whatsoever.
§ 5-1-3: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section is to regulate the possession,
manufacture, advertisement and delivery of drug paraphernalia and thereby deter
the use of controlled substances in the City. This Section is not intended to
allow what the Minnesota Statutes prohibit or to prohibit what the Minnesota
Statutes expressly allow. It is intended to prevent drug abuse.
   B.   Definition: For the purposes of this Section, “drug paraphernalia”
shall mean all equipment, products and materials of any kind which are used,
intended for use or designed for use in planting, propagating, cultivating,
growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing,
containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing
into the human body a controlled substance in violation of Minnesota Statutes
or this Code.
   C.   Evidence: In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, a
court or other authority should consider, in addition to all other logically
relevant factors, the following:
      1.   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
      2.   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner or anyone in control of the
object under State or Federal law relating to any controlled substance;
      3.   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of this Section;
      4.   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
      5.   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the object;
      6.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner or
anyone in control of the object to deliver it to a person who they know, or
should reasonably know, intends to use the object to facilitate a violation of
this Code; the innocence of an owner or anyone in control of the object as to a
direct violation of this Code should not prevent a finding that the object is
intended for use or designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
      7.   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning
its use;
      8.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
      9.   National and local advertising concerning its use;
      10.   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
      11.   Whether the owner or anyone in control of the object is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
      12.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
      13.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community; and
      14.   Expert testimony concerning its use.
   D.   Offenses:
      1.   Possession: It is unlawful for any person to use or to possess with
intent to use drug paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled substance in violation of this Section.
      2.   Manufacture or Delivery: It is unlawful for any person to deliver,
possess with intent to deliver or manufacture with intent to deliver drug
paraphernalia knowing, or under circumstances where one reasonably should know,
that it will be used to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, inhale, or otherwise introduce into
the human body a controlled substance in violation of this Section.
      3.   Offenses Involving Minors: Any person eighteen (18) years of age or
over who violates subsection D.1 of this Section by delivering drug
paraphernalia, and such delivery is to a person who is under eighteen (18)
years of age and at least three (3) years their junior, shall also be violating
this subsection D.3 as well as subsection D.1 of this Section.
      4.   Advertisement: It is unlawful for any person to place in any
newspaper, magazine, handbill, or other publication any advertisement knowing,
or under circumstances where one reasonably should know, that the purpose of
the advertisement, in whole or in part, is to promote the sale of objects
designed or intended for use as drug paraphernalia.
   E.   Civil Forfeiture: All “drug paraphernalia” as defined by subsection B
is subject to forfeiture, subject to the provisions set forth in Minnesota
Statutes Section 609.5311 et seq., in the same manner as if such forfeiture
were pursuant to said Minnesota Statutes Section 609.5311 et seq.
§ 5-1-4: PURCHASE, SALE AND POSSESSION OF CATALYTIC CONVERTERS:
   A.   Sale or Purchase of Catalytic Converters: No person or business shall
purchase or sell a used catalytic converter that is not attached to a vehicle
unless the purchase or sale of the catalytic converter meets the following
requirements:
      1.   A complete and accurate account or description, including the weight
if customarily purchased by weight, of the scrap metal purchased or acquired;
      2.   The date, time, and place of the receipt of the scrap metal
purchased or acquired and a unique transaction identifier;
      3.   A photocopy or electronic scan of the seller’s proof of
identification including the identification number;
      4.   The amount paid and the number of the check or electronic transfer
used to purchase the scrap metal;
      5.   The license plate number and description of the vehicle used by the
person when delivering the scrap metal, including the vehicle make and model,
and any identifying marks on the vehicle, such as a business name, decals, or
markings, if applicable;
      6.   A statement signed by the seller, under penalty of perjury attesting
that the scrap metal is not stolen and is free of any liens or encumbrances and
the seller has the right to sell it;
      7.   A copy of the receipt, which must include at least the following
information: the name and address of the dealer, the date and time the scrap
metal was received by the dealer, an accurate description of the scrap metal,
and the amount paid for the scrap metal;
      8.   The name of the person who removed the catalytic converter; and
      9.   Any other requirements for proof of receipt in Minnesota Statutes
Section 325E.21.
   B.   Possession of Catalytic Converters: No person shall be in possession of
a catalytic converter that is not attached to a motor vehicle unless the
individual can provide verification of legal receipt of the catalytic converter
consistent with the requirements in City Code Section
5-1-4.A.
§ 5-1-5: PROCUREMENT OF THIRD-PARTY GIFT CARDS:
   A.   Purpose: The fraudulent procurement of third-party gift cards at retail
establishments in the City has become a widespread problem. These incidents
affect numerous victims and require considerable law enforcement resources to
investigate. By adopting these provisions, the City Council desires to protect
the health, safety, and welfare of all persons living in the City, visiting the
City, and operating businesses within the City by deterring the fraudulent
procurement of third-party gift cards at retail establishments and conserving
the limited amount of time, energy, and resources available to local law
enforcement agencies when investigating said behavior.
   B.   Definitions: The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this
Chapter shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   FINANCIAL TRANSACTION CARD: Any instrument or device, whether known as a
credit card, credit plate, charge plate, courtesy card, bank services card,
banking card, check guarantee card, debit card, electronic benefit system (EBS)
card, electronic benefit transfer (EBT) card, assistance transaction card, or
by any other name, issued with or without fee by an issuer for the use of the
cardholder in obtaining credit, money, goods, services, public assistance
benefits, or anything else of value, and includes the account or identification
number or symbol of a financial transaction card.
   THIRD-PARTY GIFT CARD: A reloadable or non-reloadable prepaid card sold at
retail establishments and used to make purchases via any credit card, bank
card, or other monetary card network, for which the value is decreased upon
each purchase.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT: A physical place of business in which consumer
merchandise is sold to the general public.
   PERSON: An individual, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability
company, corporation, or other legal entity.
   PROOF OF IDENTIFICATION: A driver’s license, Minnesota identification card
number, or other identification document issued for identification purposes by
any state, federal, or foreign government if the document includes the person’s
photograph, full name, birth date, and signature.
   SELL: To transfer to another in exchange for monetary consideration through
the use of a financial transaction card.
   C.   Identification Verification Required: Any person that sells a third-
party gift card to an individual on behalf of a retail establishment, including
an agent, employee, or other representative of the retail establishment, shall
require that the individual purchasing the third-party gift card display proof
of identification and shall verify that said proof of identification matches
the individual’s form of payment.
   D.   Self-Checkout: A retail establishment shall not allow the purchase of
third-party gift cards at self-checkout kiosks where customers themselves scan
merchandise and pay without the assistance of an employee of the retail
establishment.
   E.   Enforcement; Violations: Penalties for violations shall be enforced
against the retail establishment and shall subject the violator thereof to the
penalty provisions under Title 1, Chapter 3 of this Code.
§ 5-1-6: CANNABIS USE ON PUBLIC PROPERTY AND IN PUBLIC PLACES:
   A.   Definitions. The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this
Chapter have the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   PUBLIC PLACE: Property that is generally open to or accessible by the
public, and includes public property, but does not include those premises
licensed by the State of Minnesota to permit on-site consumption.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY: Property, real and personal, that is owned, managed, or
controlled by the City, including, but not limited to: City buildings and all
the land thereon, parking lots, parks, pathways and trails, and city rights-of-
way consisting of both the traveled portion and the abutting boulevard,
sidewalks and trails, and any City personal property, such as motor vehicles
and city equipment.
   CANNABIS FLOWER, CANNABIS PRODUCTS, LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLES, AND HEMP
DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCTS: Shall have the same meanings as defined in Minn.
Stat. §342.01.
   B.   Prohibition. No person shall vaporize or smoke cannabis flower,
cannabis products, artificially derived cannabinoids, or hemp-derived consumer
products on public property or in a public place.
   C.   Penalty. A violation of this Section is a petty misdemeanor. (amd. Ord.
1074, 10-18-2023)
§ 5-1-7: UNDERAGE POSSESSION, USE OR CONSUMPTION OF CANNABIS PRODUCTS:
   It shall be unlawful for anyone under 21 years of age to possess, use or
consume a cannabis flower, cannabis product, lower potency hemp edible and
hemp-derived consumer products. The penalty shall be a misdemeanor with a
mandatory minimum fine of $100. (amd. Ord. 1078, 10-18-2023)
CHAPTER 2: MINORS
Section
5-2-1: Juvenile Curfew
§ 5-2-1: JUVENILE CURFEW:
   A.   Findings And Purpose:
      1.   In recent years, there has been a significant increase in juvenile
victimization and crime. At the same time, the crimes committed by and against
juveniles have become more violent. A significant percentage of juvenile crime
occurs during curfew hours.
      2.   Because of their lack of maturity and experience, juveniles are
particularly susceptible to becoming victims of older perpetrators. The younger
a person is, the more likely they are to be a victim of crime.
      3.   While parents have the primary responsibility to provide for the
safety and welfare of juveniles, Cottage Grove also has a substantial interest
in the safety and welfare of juveniles. Moreover, Cottage Grove has an interest
in preventing juvenile crime, promoting parental supervision, and providing for
the well-being of the general public.
      4.   A City-wide curfew will reduce juvenile victimization and crime and
will advance public safety, health, and general welfare.
   B.   Definitions: The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this
Chapter shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   EMERGENCY: A circumstance or combination of circumstances requiring
immediate action to prevent property damage, serious bodily injury, or loss of
life.
   ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business to which the public is
invited, including, but not limited to, any place of amusement, entertainment,
or refreshment.
   GUARDIAN: An adult appointed pursuant to Minnesota Statutes Section 524.5-
201 who has the powers and responsibilities as defined by Minnesota Statutes
Section 524.5-207.
   JUVENILE: A person under the age of seventeen (17). The term does not
include persons under seventeen (17) who are married or have been legally
emancipated.
   PARENT: Birth parents, adoptive parents, and stepparents.
   PROPRIETOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
   RESPONSIBLE ADULT: A person over the age of eighteen (18) specifically
authorized by law or by a parent or guardian to have custody and control of a
juvenile.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any body part or organ.
   C.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   It is unlawful for a juvenile under the age of twelve (12) to be
present in any public place or establishment within Cottage Grove:
         a.   Any time between nine o’clock (9:00) P.M. on any Sunday, Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday and five o’clock (5:00) A.M. of the following
day.
         b.   Any time between ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. on any Friday or
Saturday and five o’clock (5:00) A.M. on the following day.
      2.   It is unlawful for a juvenile, from ages twelve (12) through
fourteen (14), to be present in any public place or establishment within
Cottage Grove:
         a.   Any time between ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. on any Sunday, Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday and five o’clock (5:00) A.M. of the following
day.
         b.   Any time between eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. on any Friday or
Saturday and five o’clock (5:00) A.M. on any Saturday or Sunday of the
following day.
      3.   It is unlawful for a juvenile, ages fifteen (15) and sixteen (16),
to be present in any public place or establishment within Cottage Grove:
         a.   Any time between eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. on any Sunday,
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday and five o’clock (5:00) A.M. of the
following day.
         b.   Any time between one (1) minute after twelve o’clock (12:01) A.M.
and five o’clock (5:00) A.M. on any Saturday or Sunday.
      4.   It is unlawful for a parent or guardian of a juvenile knowingly, or
through negligent supervision, to permit the juvenile to be in any public place
or establishment within Cottage Grove during the hours prohibited in subsection
C.1, C.2 or C.3 of this Section.
      5.   It is unlawful for a proprietor of an establishment within Cottage
Grove to knowingly permit a juvenile to remain in the establishment or on the
establishment’s property during the hours prohibited in subsection C.1, C.2 or
C.3 of this Section.
   If the proprietor is not present at the time of the curfew violation, the
responding officer shall leave written notice of the violation with an employee
of the establishment. A copy of the written notice shall be served upon the
establishment’s proprietor personally or by certified mail.
   D.   Defenses:
      1.   Juveniles: It is an affirmative defense for a juvenile to prove
that:
         a.   The juvenile was accompanied by their parent, guardian, or other
responsible adult.
         b.   The juvenile was engaged in a lawful employment activity or was
going to or returning home from their place of employment.
         c.   The juvenile was involved in an emergency situation.
         d.   The juvenile was going to, attending, or returning home from an
official school, religious, or other recreational activity sponsored and/or
supervised by a public entity or a civic organization.
         e.   The juvenile was on an errand at the direction of a parent or
guardian.
         f.   The juvenile was exercising First Amendment rights protected by
the United States Constitution or Article 1 of the Constitution of the State of
Minnesota.
         g.   The juvenile was engaged in interstate travel.
         h.   The juvenile was on the public right-of-way, boulevard or
sidewalk abutting the property containing the juvenile’s residence or abutting
the neighboring property, structure, or residence.
      2.   It is an affirmative defense for a proprietor of an establishment to
prove that:
         a.   The proprietor or employee reasonably and in good faith relied
upon a juvenile’s representations of proof of age. Proof of age may be
established pursuant to Minnesota Statutes Section 340A.503, subdivision 6, or
other verifiable means, including, but not limited to, school identification
cards and birth certificates.
         b.   The proprietor or employee promptly notified the responsible
police agency that a juvenile was present on the premises of the establishment
during curfew hours.
   E.   Violation; Penalty:
      1.   Violation of subsection C.1, C.2 or C.3 of this Section will be
prosecuted pursuant to Washington County Ordinance No. 125, as it may be
amended from time to time, and will be subject to the penalties therein.
      2.   Violation of subsection C.4 or C.5 of this Section is a misdemeanor.
   F.   Authority to Arrest: Any member of the police force is authorized to
arrest, with or without warrant any person or persons observed to be violating
the provisions of this Section, and they shall notify, as soon as reasonably
possible, the parents, guardian or person having legal custody of any minor so
arrested.
   G.   Application of Other Laws: This Section shall not be construed as
permitting the presence at any time of any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years in any place where their presence is now prohibited by an existing
law or ordinance.
CHAPTER 3: WEAPONS
Section
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Possession, Carrying and Transporting Weapons
5-3-3: Discharge Restricted
5-3-4: Firearms
5-3-5: Hunting
5-3-6: Exemptions from Provisions
5-3-7: Enforcement
§ 5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   AMMUNITION: Ammunition or cartridge cases, primers, bullets or propellent
powder designed for use in any firearm. Ammunition does not include ornaments,
curiosities or souvenirs constructed from or resembling ammunition or
ammunition components that are not operable as ammunition.
   ANTIQUE FIREARM: Any firearm, including any pistol, with a matchlock,
flintlock, percussion cap, or similar type of ignition system, manufactured
before 1899 and any replica of any firearm described herein if such replica is
not designed or redesigned, made or remade, or intended to fire conventional
rimfire or conventional centerfire ammunition or uses conventional rimfire or
conventional centerfire ammunition which is not readily available in the
ordinary channels of commercial trade.
   ASSAULT WEAPON: Any weapon other than a firearm or military type weapon
having the personal assault characteristics of any sap, nunchucks, blackjack,
slungshot, slingshot, sand club, chain club, metal knuckles, shurikens or
yawara stick.
   BB GUN/AIR GUN: Any weapon from which is propelled any missile, projectile,
or other mass, measuring eighteen-hundredths inch (0.18") or less in diameter,
through a barrel by means of gas or air.
   BOW AND ARROW: Any device which is made of a strip of flexible material
(such as, but not limited to, wood) with a cord connecting the two (2) ends and
holding the strip bent and that is used to propel an arrow, which usually has a
slender shaft, a pointed head, and feathers at the butt.
   BOW AND ARROW TARGET RANGE: Any area so designated by the Director of Public
Safety.
   CONCEALED MANNER: Having the object on the person in such a manner that it
is not completely visible to any other person.
   DANGEROUS WEAPON: Any firearm, whether loaded or unloaded, or any device
designed as a weapon and capable of producing death or great bodily harm, any
combustible or flammable liquid or other device or instrumentality that, in the
manner it is used or intended to be used, is calculated to or likely to produce
death or great bodily harm, or any fire that is used to produce death or great
bodily harm. As used in this definition, “flammable liquid” means any liquid
having a flash point below one hundred degrees Fahrenheit (100ºF.) and having a
vapor pressure not exceeding forty (40) pounds per square inch (absolute) at
one hundred degrees Fahrenheit (100ºF.) but does not include intoxicating
liquor as defined in Minnesota Statutes Section 340A.101. As used in this
definition, “combustible liquid” is a liquid having a flash point at or above
one hundred degrees Fahrenheit (100ºF.).
   FIREARM: Any weapon from which is propelled any missile, projectile, bullet,
or other mass through a barrel by means of explosives or gas or air, excluding
devices used exclusively for the firing of stud cartridges, explosive rivets or
similar industrial apparatus and instruments or equipment when used by licensed
physicians or veterinarians in the course and scope of their professions.
FIREARM does not include a BB gun, an air gun, a scuba gun, a stud gun, or nail
gun used in the construction industry or children’s pop guns or toys, nor does
the term include an “antique firearm.”
   HANDGUN: Any firearm having a barrel of less than twelve inches (12") in
length and capable of being concealed on the person.
   KNIFE: Any dirk, dagger, stiletto, switchblade knife, spring blade knife,
push button knife, folding knife with a blade in excess of four inches (4"),
machete, bayonet or any fixed bladed knife carried in a concealed manner or
within reach of any person in a motor vehicle.
   LANDOWNER: Any person, group, firm or corporation owning, leasing, or
legally controlling any lands within the City.
   MILITARY TYPE WEAPON: Any destructive device, and the ammunition designed
only for such device, having firepower, mass, explosive or incendiary
characteristics of weapons such as cannons having a bore diameter larger than
one-half inch (1/2"), bazookas, machine guns, fully automatic weapons, mortars,
grenades or molotov cocktails, but not including shotguns, rifles, pistols or
revolvers.
   NUNCHUCKS: Any device constructed of two (2) solid cylindrical objects
joined together on one (1) end by a chain, rope, thong, or other such material.
   OFFICIALLY RECOGNIZED TRAINING OR COMPETITION: All training or competitions
held under the sponsorship of a bona fide target shooting or sportsperson’s
club or bona fide educational program.
   PISTOL: A firearm designed to be fired by the use of a single hand and with
an overall length less than twenty-six inches (26"), or having a barrel or
barrels of a length less than eighteen inches (18") in the case of a shotgun or
having a barrel of a length less than sixteen inches (16") in the case of a
rifle: (1) from which may be fired or ejected one (1) or more solid projectiles
by means of a cartridge or shell or by the action of an explosive or the
igniting of flammable or explosive substances; or (2) for which the propelling
force is a spring, elastic band, carbon dioxide, air or other gas or vapor.
PISTOL does not include a BB gun, an air gun, a scuba gun, a stud gun or a nail
gun used in the construction industry or children’s pop guns or toys, nor does
the term include an antique firearm.
   SECURED CONTAINER: A locked case legibly marked “weapon”, having no
mechanical features designed for immediate weapons removal or use and
containing no other nonrelated objects; except, that a “secured container” for
a rifle, shotgun or bow and arrow may mean a weapon case, such as leather,
fiber, canvas, or plastic, secured with a zipper, clasp, buckle or ties.
   SHURIKEN: Any metal device which has the shape of a multiple pointed star,
each point being sharpened, and primarily designed to be thrown.
   SINGLE PROJECTILE: Any single projectile, whether contained in a metallic,
paper, plastic or other cartridge, including any method of loading muzzleloader
which results in a single projectile being discharged.
   WRITTEN PERMISSION: A writing that includes the following: the full name,
address, date of birth and signature of the person authorized to hunt or shoot;
express authorization to hunt or shoot on identified lands; the full name,
address and signature of the landowner.
   YAWARA STICK: Any cylindrically shaped object which has spheres on both ends
and measures less than ten inches (10") in length.
§ 5-3-2: POSSESSION, CARRYING AND TRANSPORTING WEAPONS:
   A.   Possession of Certain Weapons Prohibited: No person, except military
personnel or peace officers engaged in the course of their duties, shall keep,
carry or have in their possession, on any public street or while trespassing
upon the premises of another or in a public place, any military type of weapon,
assault weapon, knife or stolen weapon, unless the person holds a permit to
possess the same as collector’s items or for use in officially recognized
training or competition.
   B.   Firearms: No person shall carry or possess any firearm on, in or upon
any public property located within the City, except as provided for the purpose
of taking wild game in compliance with Section
5-3-5 of this Chapter, upon an authorized firing range or pursuant to the
exemptions in subdivision E. It is unlawful to transport in any manner
whatsoever, whether by person or by vehicle of any type, whether motorized or
not, any firearm, including a muzzleloading firearm, unless: (1) the firearm is
unloaded in both barrels and magazine and contained in a gun case expressly
made for that purpose which is fully enclosed by being zipped, snapped,
buckled, tied or otherwise fastened, with no portion of the firearm exposed, or
(2) the firearm is unloaded and in the trunk of a car with the trunk door
closed. A muzzleloading firearm with a flintlock ignition is fully unloaded if
it has no priming powder in any pan, and a muzzleloading firearm with
percussion ignition is fully unloaded if it has no percussion cap on a nipple.
This Section shall not be construed to limit the right to carry or possess
pistols as provided by Minnesota Statutes Section 624.714 and shall not apply
to any pistol carried, possessed, or transported in accordance with Minnesota
Statutes Section 624.714.
   C.   Bows and Arrows: No person shall transport a bow and arrow in any
manner whatever, whether by person or by vehicle of any type, whether motorized
or not, unless: (1) unstrung, (2) completely contained in a case, or (3)
contained in the trunk of the car with the trunk door closed.
   D.   Other Dangerous Weapons: No person shall carry or possess any other
dangerous weapon except as allowed by this Chapter. No person shall transport
any dangerous weapon in any manner whatever, whether by person or by vehicle of
any type, whether motorized or not, unless completely contained in a secured
container or confined in the trunk of the car with the trunk door closed.
   E.   Exemptions. This Section shall not be construed to limit the right to
carry or possess pistols as provided by Minnesota Statutes Section 624.714 and
shall not apply to any pistol carried, possessed, or transported in accordance
with Minnesota Statutes Section 624.714, nor shall this Section apply to
antique firearms or ammunition designed solely for use in an antique firearm.
§ 5-3-3: DISCHARGE RESTRICTED:
   A.   Firearm or BB Gun/Air Gun: No person shall fire or discharge any
firearm or BB gun/air gun within the City, except as provided for the purpose
of taking wild game as defined in Section
5-3-5 of this Chapter or upon an authorized firing range.
   B.   Bow and Arrow: No person shall discharge any bow and arrow within the
City, except as provided for the purpose of taking wild game as defined in
Section
5-3-5 of this Chapter or upon an authorized bow and arrow target range.
§ 5-3-4: FIREARMS:
   A.   Firing Ranges: The terms of this Section shall not prohibit the
possession or discharge of firearms upon a firing range, either indoor or
outdoor, provided such range is properly equipped and supervised to ensure
reasonable safety as determined by the certificate of the Director of Public
Safety or pursuant to licensing ordinances enacted for such ranges. No firing
range shall be constructed without prior investigation by the Department of
Public Safety and approval of the City Council.
   B.   Use within Home or for Defense: Nothing in this Section shall be
construed to embrace the possession of a firearm within the home or the
discharge of the same when done in the lawful defense of person, property, or
family.
   C.   Reckless Use Prohibited: No person shall do any of the following:
      1.   Recklessly handle or use a firearm, other dangerous weapon or
explosive so as to endanger the safety of another.
      2.   Intentionally point a firearm, whether loaded or unloaded, at or
toward another.
   D.   Minors:
      1.   Possession: No minor under the age of twelve (12) years shall handle
or have in their possession or under their control, except while accompanied by
or under the immediate supervision of their parent or guardian, any firearm or
air gun of any kind for any purpose.
      2.   Furnishing to Minors: No person shall:
         a.   Without the parent’s or guardian’s consent, furnish a child under
fourteen (14) years of age or, as a parent or guardian, permit such child to
handle or use outside of the parent’s or guardian’s presence, a firearm or air
gun of any kind, or any ammunition or explosive.
         b.   Furnish a minor under eighteen (18) years of age with a firearm,
air gun, ammunition or explosive without the written consent of their parent or
guardian or the Department of Public Safety.
§ 5-3-5: HUNTING:
   A.   Use of Weapons for Hunting:
      1.   Firearms:
         a.   The landowner of land zoned AG-1 or AG-2, consisting of forty
(40) contiguous acres or more, persons while accompanied by the landowner, or
persons in possession of written permission from the landowner of land zoned
AG-1 or AG-2 of forty (40) contiguous acres or more may discharge firearms in
hunting wild game in accordance with Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 97B, upon the
landowner’s land.
         b.   Written permission from the landowner must be in the possession
of the hunter at the time of hunting along with adequate identification.
         c.   No person shall take any wild game with any firearms on any land
zoned AG-1 or AG-2 of forty (40) contiguous acres or more, or on any public
right-of-way, under the following circumstances:
            (1)   In that portion of the City lying west of Keats Avenue,
southerly of Military Road, and northerly of U.S. Highways 61 and 10.
            (2)   In that portion of the City lying south and west of U.S.
Highways 61 and 10, except for the northwest and southwest halves of section
28.
            (3)   Within five hundred feet (500') of any building occupied by
any human or livestock, except with the written permission of the landowner and
occupant of such premises.
            (4)   Within five hundred feet (500') of any stockade or corral
containing livestock.
            (5)   Within five hundred feet (500') of any highway or roadway.
         d.   All firearms used for the taking of wild game shall be limited to
shotguns, .22 caliber rifles or long guns of less than .22 caliber.
         e.   Persons discharging firearms while hunting in accordance with
Cottage Grove ordinances and State statute shall not let any projectiles pass
beyond the boundary of the land they are permitted to hunt.
         f.   Persons discharging single projectiles from firearms while
hunting in accordance with Cottage Grove ordinances and State statute must hunt
from an elevated stand of at least six feet (6') or more.
      2.   Archery Hunting:
         a.   The landowner of land zoned AG-1 or AG-2 or R-1 consisting of a
minimum of five (5) contiguous acres, or persons with written permission from
the landowner of land zoned AG-1, AG-2 or R-1 consisting of a minimum of five
(5) contiguous acres may, upon the land of the landowner, discharge a bow and
arrow in hunting wild game in accordance with Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 97B,
and the ordinances of the City.
         b.   Written permission from the landowner must be in the possession
of the hunter at the time of hunting along with adequate identification.
         c.   No person shall take any wild game with any bow and arrow on any
land zoned AG-1, AG-2 or R-1 under the following circumstances:
            (1)   Within three hundred feet (300') of any property with a
zoning classification other than AG-1, AG-2 or R-1.
            (2)   Within three hundred feet (300') of any public park land or
public trail.
            (3)   Within three hundred feet (300') of any public right-of-way.
            (4)   Within three hundred feet (300') of any land or building not
owned by the landowner.
            (5)   Any circumstance in which it is foreseeable that the safety
of another person would be endangered.
         d.   Persons hunting in accordance with Cottage Grove ordinances and
State statute shall not let any arrow pass beyond the boundary of the land they
are permitted to hunt.
         e.   Persons hunting in accordance with Cottage Grove ordinances and
State statute must hunt from an elevated stand of at least six feet (6') or
more.
      3.   Rodent Control: The Director of Public Safety or their designee,
upon the showing of a need, may grant exceptions through a permit to this
Chapter for the purposes of rodent control on land zoned AG-1, AG-2 or R-1 and
R-2. All weapons used in the control of rodents shall conform to regulations
established in this Chapter.
      4.   Responsibility of Landowner: The landowner shall be responsible for
the conduct of any hunter on land for which they have granted permission to
hunt.
      5.   Enforcement:
         a.   Authority of Peace Officers: A peace officer is hereby authorized
and empowered to enforce all requirements of this Section and related State
statutes.
         b.   Seizure, Confiscation and Disposal of Game and Property: A peace
officer is hereby authorized and empowered to seize and confiscate any wild
game taken in violation of this Section and to seize, confiscate and dispose of
all guns, firearms, bows and arrows, boats or vehicles used by the owner or any
other person with their knowledge in unlawfully taking or transporting such
wild game in violation of this Section. Articles which have no lawful use may
be summarily destroyed. Upon conclusion of the prosecution of any case, the
guns, firearms, bows and arrows, boats or vehicles seized pursuant to this
Section shall be returned to the lawful owner thereof upon payment to the City
of all costs incurred by the City in the seizure, to include towing fees and
storage or impound fees. In the event the lawful owner cannot be determined or
located, the property shall be disposed of in compliance with court order.
   B.   Excess Population; Special Hunting Areas:
      1.   Excess Population and Special Hunting Areas Determined: The
Department of Public Safety shall determine, after consultation with the
Department of Natural Resources, when there is an excess population of wild
game or when herd control is required. Upon such determination, the Department
of Public Safety shall designate additional area(s) for hunting of wild game,
which hunting shall be in accordance with Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 97B. The
City Council resolution shall define the area(s) which may be hunted. Such
resolution shall be effective for one (1) season.
   C.   Designated Hunting Areas:
      1.   This Chapter along with the boundaries will be reviewed annually by
the Public Services Committee.
      2.   Annually before the hunting season commences, the City Council will
cause to be published a map designating the areas within the City where hunting
is allowed.
§ 5-3-6: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
   A.   Nothing in this Chapter prohibits the possession of the articles
mentioned by museums or collectors of art or for other lawful purpose of public
exhibition.
   B.   This Chapter shall not apply to public law enforcement officers or
members of the armed services of either the United States or the State in the
lawful performance of their duties.
   C.   This Chapter shall not be construed to limit the right to carry or
possess pistols as provided by Minnesota Statutes Section 624.714 and shall not
apply to any pistol carried, possessed or transported in accordance with
Minnesota Statutes Section 624.714, nor shall this Chapter apply to antique
firearms or to ammunition designed solely for use in an antique firearm.
§ 5-3-7: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Authority of Peace Officers: A peace officer is hereby authorized and
empowered to enforce all of the requirements of this Chapter and related State
Statutes.
   B.   Seizure, Confiscation and Disposal of Weapons: A peace officer is
hereby authorized and empowered to seize and confiscate and dispose of any
weapons, firearms, guns, bows and arrows possessed or used in violation of this
Chapter. Articles which have no lawful use may be summarily destroyed. All
other articles confiscated may be retained for use by the police division or
sold at public auction.
CHAPTER 4: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Running at Large
5-4-3: Nuisances
5-4-4: Dogs and Cats
5-4-5: Diseased Animals
5-4-6: Wild and Exotic Animals
5-4-7: Dangerous Dogs and Potentially Dangerous Dogs
5-4-8: Impoundment, Seizure, And Redemption Procedures
5-4-9: Destruction of Certain Animals
5-4-10: Interference with Officers
5-4-11: Concealing Animals
5-4-12: Keeping of Fowl or Poultry
5-4-13: Temporary Keeping of Goats for Vegetation Management
5-4-14:   Keeping of Bees
§ 5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER OR ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY: A police officer,
community service officer, or other person, or their respective departments,
that is responsible for animal control operations in the City.
   AT LARGE: Off the premises of the owner and not under the custody and
control of the owner or other person, either by leash, cord, chain, or
otherwise restrained or confined.
   CARETAKER: Any person or persons, firm, association, or corporation
possessing, harboring, keeping, having an interest in or having care, custody
or control of a domestic or wild animal on behalf of the domestic or wild
animal’s owner.
   CAT: Any feline animal, male or female, whole, neutered, or spayed.
   COOP: The enclosed structure for keeping or housing fowl or poultry
permitted by this Chapter.
   DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog that has:
   A.   Without provocation, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a human being
on public or private property;
   B.   Killed a domestic animal without provocation while off the owner’s
property; or
   C.   Been found to be potentially dangerous, and after the owner has notice
that the dog is potentially dangerous, the dog aggressively bites, attacks, or
endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
   DESTRUCTION COSTS: The costs attributed to the proper and humane destruction
of a dog pursuant to Minnesota Statutes and this Chapter.
   DISEASED ANIMAL: An animal shall be considered diseased if it has any
communicable disease or is suspected by a qualified person of having any
communicable disease. A rabid animal shall be one having rabies or suspected by
a qualified person as having rabies. A rabid animal is a diseased animal.
   DOG: Any canine animal, male or female, whole, neutered, or spayed.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL: Any animal commonly accepted as a domesticated household
pet. Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall include dogs, cats, caged
birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated rabbits, fish,
nonpoisonous, nonvenomous, and nonconstricting reptiles or amphibians, and
other similar animals.
   DRAKE: A male duck.
   FOWL: A bird, such as a duck, goose, turkey, or pheasant that is used as
food or hunted as game.
   GREAT BODILY HARM: Bodily injury which creates a high probability of death,
or which causes serious permanent disfigurement, or which causes a permanent or
protracted loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ or
other serious bodily harm.
   HEN: Female fowl or poultry.
   MAINTENANCE COSTS: Any costs incurred as a result of seizing an animal for
impoundment or observation, including, but not limited to, the capturing,
impounding, keeping, treating, examining, securing, confining, feeding,
boarding, or maintaining seized animals, whether these services are provided by
the City or a City contractor.
   OWNER: Any person or persons, firm, association, or organization or
department possessing, harboring, keeping, having an interest in or having
care, custody or control of a domestic animal.
   POLICE DOG: A dog that is trained specifically to assist police personnel
with their work. Work includes, but is not limited to, tracking and
apprehending suspects, tracking of missing persons, and detecting controlled
substances.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog that: (a) when unprovoked, inflicts bites
on a human or domestic animal on public or private property; (b) when
unprovoked, chases or approaches a person, including a person on a bicycle,
upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public or private property, other than the
dog owner’s property, in an apparent attitude of attack; or (c) has a known
propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack unprovoked, causing injury or
otherwise threatening the safety of humans or domestic animals.
   POULTRY: Domestic fowls, such as chickens, turkeys, ducks, or geese, raised
for meat or eggs.
   PROPER ENCLOSURE: Securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and
providing protection from the elements for the animal. A proper enclosure does
not include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure
that would allow the animal to exit of its own volition, or any house or
structure in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the
only obstacles that prevent the animal from exiting. The enclosure must not
allow the egress of the animal in any manner without human assistance. Except
for fowl and poultry, as provided in Section
5-4-12, a “proper enclosure” must meet the following minimum specifications:
   A.   The floor must have a minimum overall area of thirty-two (32) square
feet.
   B.   The side walls must have a minimum height of five feet (5') and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire may not exceed
two inches (2"). Support posts must be one and one-fourth inch (1 1/4")
diameter or larger buried into the ground eighteen inches (18") or more. When a
concrete floor is not provided, the side walls must be buried a minimum of
eighteen inches (18") in the ground.
   C.   A cover over the entire enclosure must be provided. The cover must be
constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the side walls and must have
no openings in the wire greater than two inches (2").
   D.   An entrance/exit gate must be provided and be constructed of the same
material as the side walls and must have no openings in the wire greater than
two inches (2"). The gate must be equipped with a device capable of being
locked and must be locked at all times when the animal is in the enclosure.
   PROVOCATION: An act that an adult could reasonably expect may cause a dog to
attack or bite.
   ROOSTER: Male fowl or poultry.
   RUN: A fully enclosed and covered area attached to a coop where the fowl or
poultry can roam.
   RUNNING AT LARGE OR RUN AT LARGE: An animal is running at large if it:
   A.   Is not effectively contained within a fenced area; or
   B.   Is on any unfenced area or lot abutting a street, alley, public park,
public place or upon any other private land without being effectively
restrained by chain, leash, or an electronic pet containment device from moving
beyond such unfenced area or lot; or
   C.   Is on any street, public park, school grounds or public place without
being effectively restrained by chain or leash, except for a dog within the
boundaries of the public off leash dog park and the owner has verbal or
physical command over the dog.
   SERVICE ANIMAL: Consistent with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA),
the definition of a service animal is any dog that is individually trained to
do work or perform tasks for the benefit of an individual with a disability,
including, but not limited to, guiding individuals with impaired vision,
alerting individuals with impaired hearing to intruders or sounds, providing
minimal protection or rescue work, pulling a wheelchair, alerting and
protecting a person who is having a seizure, reminding a person with mental
illness to take prescribed medications, calming a person with post-traumatic
stress disorder (PTSD) during an anxiety attack, or performing other duties.
The work or task a dog has been trained to provide must be directly related to
the person’s disability. Animals whose function is to provide comfort or
emotional support are not service animals under this Chapter.
   SUBSTANTIAL BODILY HARM: Bodily injury that involves a temporary but
substantial disfigurement, or that causes a temporary but substantial loss or
impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ or that causes a
fracture of any bodily member.
   UNPROVOKED: The condition in which the dog is not purposefully motivated or
prompted.
   VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES: The inoculation of a dog or cat with a rabies
vaccine.
   WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMAL: A mammal, bird, amphibian, reptile not native to the
State, or may be native to the State but is not usually domesticated or a
species that, due to its size, wild nature, or poisonous venom, is dangerous to
humans. By way of example, but not limited to, the term includes the following:
   A.   Large cats, such as jaguars, cougars, lions, tigers (excluding domestic
house cats);
   B.   Skunks, raccoons, or other types of nuisance animals;
   C.   Bears;
   D.   Members of the family Canidae, such as wolves, fox, coyote, dingoes and
jackals, including cross- breeds (excluding domestic dogs);
   E.   Primates, such as monkeys, gorillas, baboons;
   F.   Poisonous snakes, constrictors;
   G.   Carnivorous fish, such as piranhas, northern snakeheads;
   H.   Pot-bellied pigs;
   I.   Pigeons, and dove, whether or not they are trained; or
   J.   Any animal or species that is wild by nature or prohibited by Minnesota
or Federal law.
§ 5-4-2: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor to permit a domestic animal or
illegal wild or exotic animal to run at large, whether or not the owner is
present, within the limits of the City. Dogs or cats must be continuously under
restraint on a leash and accompanied by a person reasonably able and
effectively restraining the dog or cat. The City may charge the owner for all
costs incurred in capturing, impounding, and maintaining of an animal running
at large.
§ 5-4-3: NUISANCES:
   A.   Noisy Animals: No person shall keep or harbor an animal which
habitually barks, cries or creates a noise in a manner which disturbs the peace
and quiet of any street, neighborhood, or public place at any time of day or
night. “Habitual barking” shall be defined as barking for repeated intervals of
at least three (3) minutes with less than one (1) minute of interruption and
audible off the owner’s or caretaker’s premises.
   B.   Damage to Property: No person having the custody or control of a
domestic animal shall permit the animal to damage any lawn, garden or other
property, public or private, or to micturate or defecate on private property
without the consent of the owner or possessor of the property.
   C.   Removal of Animal Waste Required: The owner or keeper of any animal
shall be responsible for the immediate removal and proper disposal of any feces
deposited by such animal on any property, public or private, not owned or
exclusively occupied by the owner or keeper. The owner or keeper of any animal
shall also be responsible for the periodic removal and proper disposal of feces
deposited by such animal on property owned or exclusively occupied by such
owner or keeper so as to prevent the creation of a public nuisance within the
meaning of this Chapter.
   D.   Attacks Unlawful: Unless exempted by Minnesota Statutes or this
Chapter, it shall be unlawful for any owner’s or caretaker’s domestic or wild
animal to inflict great bodily harm or substantial bodily harm to any person or
any animal regardless of whether the owner or caretaker is present.
   E.   Animals Presenting Imminent Danger: If an animal control officer or
police officer has reason to believe that an animal presents an immediate
danger to the health and safety of any person, or the animal is in the process
of attacking any person, the officer may immediately destroy the animal in a
proper and humane manner. In the alternative, the officer may seize the animal
and confine the animal as set forth in subsection
5-4-8.F of this Chapter and applicable Minnesota Statutes. The owner of the
animal presenting an imminent danger is responsible for all destruction and
maintenance fees.
§ 5-4-4: DOGS AND CATS:
   A.   Licensing Provisions:
      1.   Licenses Required: No person may own, harbor, keep or have custody
of a dog or cat over six (6) months of age within the City unless a current
license for the dog or cat has been obtained from the City.
      2.   Issuance of License; Fee:
         a.   Issuance of License and Fee: The licenses shall be issued by the
City Clerk for a fee established in the City’s fee ordinance.
         b.   Payment of Fee; Late Fee: It shall be the duty of each owner of a
dog or cat to pay the license fee imposed in this subsection when a dog or cat
attains the age of six (6) months of age, upon acquiring ownership of a dog or
cat, upon establishing residence in the City, and before January 1 of each
year. A late fee will be assessed on all licenses obtained after January 1 of
each year for dogs or cats owned prior to that date. License fees are
nonrefundable.
         c.   Exemptions from Fee: Service dogs shall be exempt from the
license fee upon providing proof of certification of training as a service dog.
Dogs used in police or rescue activities by or with the permission of the City
are exempt from the license fee.
      3.   Application for License: The owner of a dog or cat, at the time of
application, shall provide their name and address, the name, breed, color, sex
of the dog or cat, proof of rabies vaccination, and statement of spaying or
neutering. No license shall be granted for a dog or cat that has not been
vaccinated against rabies, as provided in this Section.
      4.   Licenses Period: Licenses shall be issued on a calendar year basis
with an expiration date of December 31. The owner of a dog or cat shall have
the option to apply for a one (1) year or lifetime license.
      5.   Tags:
         a.   Issuance: The Police Department shall issue one (1) appropriate
tag to the owner upon payment of the fee.
         b.   Tag Fastened to Collar: The current license tag from the City
shall be securely attached to the collar or harness of a dog or cat whenever
the dog or cat is outdoors, whether on or off the owner’s property.
         c.   Duplicate Tags: In case any dog or cat tag is lost, a duplicate
may be issued upon presentation of a receipt showing the payment of the license
fee for the current year. A fee in such amount as provided by Council is
required for each such duplicate tag.
         d.   Dangerous Dogs: A dangerous dog shall also have a standardized
tag identifying the dog as dangerous and containing a dangerous dog symbol.
         e.   Potentially Dangerous Dogs: A potentially dangerous dog shall
also have a standardized tag identifying the dog as potentially dangerous.
      6.   Certification of Rabies Vaccination: Every application for a license
shall be accompanied by a certificate from a licensed veterinarian showing that
the dog or cat to be licensed has been given a vaccination against rabies in
compliance with subsection B of this Section.
      7.   Statement of Neutering or Spaying: An applicant for a license for a
neutered male or for a spayed female dog or cat shall present a statement from
a licensed veterinarian indicating that the dog or cat has been neutered or
spayed and giving the date of the operation.
      8.   Registration Fee for Dangerous Dogs: In addition to the license fee,
the owner of a dangerous dog shall pay a registration fee. The fee, as
established in the City’s fee ordinance, shall be paid on or before January 1
of each year.
      9.   Nontransferability of License or Tag: No license or license tag
shall be transferable to another dog or cat.
      10.   License Prohibited to Minors: No license may be issued to an
applicant under the age of eighteen (18) years.
      11.   Exemptions from Licensing Provisions: Cats may be used to control
the rodent population on a farm and to facilitate the efficient operation of
farming. For these reasons only, the owners of properties in excess of ten (10)
acres in either the AG-1 or AG-2 Zoning District that have farming operations
shall be exempt from the licensing requirements for cats under this subsection
A except that all farm cats must be vaccinated against rabies as described in
subsection B of this Section.
   B.   Rabies Control:
      1.   Vaccination of Dogs and Cats:
         a.   Vaccinations Required:
            (1)   Every dog or cat shall be vaccinated against rabies, and no
license, except as provided by this Chapter, shall be granted to a dog or cat
which has not been so vaccinated. Dogs and cats shall be vaccinated within
thirty (30) days after they reach the age of six (6) months.
            (2)   Unvaccinated dogs or cats acquired or moved into the City
must be vaccinated within thirty (30) days of purchase or arrival, unless under
six (6) months of age as specified.
         b.   Revaccination: Every dog or cat shall be vaccinated one (1) year
after initial vaccination, and thereafter at three (3) year periods, with
modified live virus vaccines or inactivated vaccines having a three (3) year
duration, or annually if any other shorter duration vaccine is used.
         c.   Certificate and Tag:
            (1)   The owner shall provide the City with a copy of the rabies
certificate from the veterinarian as proof of vaccination at the time of
license application.
            (2)   The current vaccination tag from the veterinarian shall be
securely attached to the collar or harness of a dog or cat whenever the dog or
cat is outdoors, whether on or off the owner’s property.
         d.   Aged or Ill Dogs or Cats: When, by reason of age or other
temporary physical disability, vaccination is impossible or harmful to the dog
or cat, the Police Department may, on presentation of a certificate of a
veterinarian establishing such disability, issue a license for such dog or cat,
subject to the condition that the certificate of vaccination be obtained and
presented to the City after such period of disability ceases.
         e.   Responsibility and Liability of Owner:
            (1)   The cost of rabies vaccination shall be borne by the owner of
the dog or cat.
            (2)   An owner of a dog or cat not appropriately vaccinated against
rabies which bites or exposes a person to rabies is guilty of a petty
misdemeanor.
            (3)   An owner or caretaker of a dog or cat who permits such animal
to be uncontrolled off the owner’s or caretaker’s premises without a proper
rabies identification tag is guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
      2.   Dogs and Cats Bitten by Rabid Animals:
         a.   Determination of Exposure: Dogs or cats known to have been bitten
or scratched by a bat or by a wild carnivorous mammal not available for testing
shall be regarded as having been exposed to a rabid animal.
         b.   Unvaccinated Dog or Cat: If the exposed dog or cat is not
vaccinated, the following shall apply:
            (1)   In the case of a dog or cat that has not been vaccinated in
accordance with this subsection B and that has been exposed to a rabid animal,
such exposed dog or cat shall be immediately destroyed; or
            (2)   If the owner is unwilling to destroy the exposed dog or cat,
such animal shall be placed in strict isolation in a kennel under veterinary
supervision for six (6) months. Before release of the dog or cat to its owner,
it shall be vaccinated for rabies one (1) month prior to its release. The owner
of the dog or cat shall be responsible for the maintenance costs during the
strict isolation.
         c.   Vaccinated Dog or Cat: If the exposed dog or cat is vaccinated,
the following shall apply:
            (1)   In the case of an exposed dog or cat vaccinated in accordance
with the provisions of this subsection B, the dog or cat shall be handled as
follows:
               (a)   It shall be immediately revaccinated and confined in a
proper enclosure by the owner for a period of ninety (90) days following
vaccination; or
               (b)   If the dog or cat is not immediately revaccinated, it
shall be confined in strict isolation in a kennel under veterinary supervision
for a minimum of six (6) months. Before release of the dog or cat to its owner,
it shall be vaccinated for rabies one (1) month prior to its release. The
registered owner of the dog or cat shall be responsible for the maintenance
costs during the strict isolation.
            (2)   Such dog or cat shall be destroyed if the owner does not
comply with subsections B.2.c(1)(a) and B.2.c(1)(b) of this Section.
      3.   Biting; Dogs and Cats:
         a.   Unvaccinated Biting Dogs or Cats: Any dog or cat not vaccinated
in accordance with this subsection B, which has bitten any person and caused an
abrasion or puncture of the skin of such person, shall be seized and impounded
under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian or a kennel approved by the
animal control authority for a period of not less than ten (10) days. If, after
a complete examination by a veterinarian, the dog or cat has no clinical signs
of rabies, it may be released to the owner, or in the case of a stray, it shall
be disposed of in accordance with applicable laws. The owner shall be
responsible for impoundment, maintenance costs, and veterinarian fees for such
animal.
         b.   Vaccinated Biting Dogs or Cats: Any dog or cat vaccinated in
accordance with this subsection B, which has bitten any person and caused an
abrasion or puncture of the skin, shall be confined by the owner or other
responsible person as required by the animal control authority for a period of
ten (10) days, at which time the dog or cat shall be examined by an agent of
the animal control authority. If no signs of rabies are observed by the agent
of the authority, the dog or cat may be released from confinement. The owner
shall be responsible for impoundment, maintenance costs, and veterinarian fees
for such animal.
   If the animal has been inoculated with a live modified rabies vaccine and
the owner has proof of the vaccination by a certificate from a licensed
veterinarian, the owner may confine the animal to a proper enclosure on the
owner’s property for the required ten (10) day confinement period.
      4.   Biting; Other Animals: Any other animal that has bitten any person
and caused an abrasion or puncture of the skin of such person shall be seized
and impounded under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian or kennel
approved by the animal control authority. If, after a complete examination by a
licensed veterinarian, the animal has no clinical signs of rabies it may be
released to the owner, or, in the case of a stray, it shall be disposed of in
accordance with applicable laws. If the licensed veterinarian deems it
necessary, the animal shall be euthanized and examined for rabies by the State
Department of Health. The owner, if known, shall be responsible for
impoundment, maintenance, and destruction costs and veterinarian fees for such
animal. Unclaimed animals will be disposed of pursuant to subsection
5-4-8.D of this Chapter.
   C.   Maintaining Multiple Animals: No more than a total of three (3) dogs
and cats may be maintained at one (1) residence without first obtaining a
multiple animal license from the Police Department. In no event shall more than
a total of five (5) dogs and cats be maintained at one (1) residence, including
emergency rescued dogs that may be in transition to permanent homes. For more
than five (5) dogs, a kennel license is required.
      1.   License Procedure: Application for a multiple animal license must be
made to the City and accompanied by the license fee established by the Council.
      2.   Approval of Contiguous Property Owners: The City shall grant a
license for multiple animals after the applicant has sought the written consent
of one hundred percent (100%) of the owners or occupants of privately or
publicly owned real estate that are located adjacent (i.e., sharing property
lines) on the outer boundaries of the premises for which the license is being
requested.
      3.   Granting or Denial of License; Conditions: Whether or not all of the
occupants of abutting property approve the application, the Police Department
may grant or deny the license. The multiple animal license will not be granted
unless the Police Department finds that the use of the applicant’s premises
with multiple animals will not have any adverse effect upon adjacent properties
or the occupancy thereof, and will not constitute a nuisance to the
neighborhood as defined in Section
5-4-3 of this Chapter and Section
4-1-1 of this Code. A license will only be granted if the keeping of the dogs
or cats is incidental to the occupancy of the premises for residential
purposes. The City may impose conditions on the granting of a license in order
to minimize or mitigate possible adverse impacts.
      4.   Reduction in Number: Each license will be conditioned upon a
requirement that the total number of animals maintained be reduced either by a
certain time or through attrition to no more than three (3) within a time frame
as designated by the Police Department. Licenses are issued on an annual basis.
      5.   Maintenance of Property: Properties holding a multiple animal
license shall be maintained in a clean and healthy condition at all times and
shall be open to inspection by the City at all reasonable times.
      6.   Rejection of License; Appeal Process: If an application is rejected,
the applicant shall be notified in writing of the decision of the Police
Department, the reason for the denial, and the applicant’s right to appeal the
denial to the City Council. Within seven (7) days of receiving the notice, the
applicant must appeal the decision in writing to the Police Chief. The City
Council will hear the appeal at a regularly scheduled meeting.
      7.   Revocation: The City Council may revoke a multiple animal license
for any violation of this Chapter or any other law relating to the keeping of
animals, after a hearing. The Police Department shall give the licensee at
least five (5) days’ written notice of the meeting at which the revocation will
be considered by mailing the notice to the licensee at the address in the
application. The City Council will give the licensee an opportunity to be heard
at the meeting.
      8.   Multiple Animal License; Fee: Such license shall be renewable
January 1 of each year thereafter. The multiple animal license fee shall be in
addition to the individual animal license fees required in this Section and is
nonrefundable.
   D.   Dog Kennels: No person shall maintain more than five (5) dogs without
securing a kennel license therefor from the City and appropriate zoning
approvals from the City Council. The license fee shall be in such amount as
provided by the Council. This fee shall be in lieu of the license fee
prescribed in subsection A of this Section for each dog kept in such kennels.
Such license shall be renewable January 1 of each year thereafter.
   E.   Basic Care: All animal owners, caretakers, and dog kennel operators
shall provide kind treatment, sufficient shelter, and sufficient food and water
for the animals’ comfort. All structures, enclosures, pens, and yards where
animals are permitted or kept must be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition and animal waste must be removed on a regular basis to keep the area
free from objectionable and unsanitary feces and odors.
§ 5-4-5: DISEASED ANIMALS:
   A.   Removal of Diseased Animals from City: It shall be unlawful and a
misdemeanor to remove a diseased animal from the City without prior consent of
the animal control officer, except for treatment by a licensed veterinarian.
   B.   Impoundment or Destruction: The animal control officer of the City
shall take up and impound any diseased animals found running at large in the
City. If such officer finds it unfeasible to impound such animal, they may
forthwith take all reasonable measures to immediately destroy such animal.
§ 5-4-6: WILD AND EXOTIC ANIMALS:
   A.   Wild or Exotic Animals Prohibited: The owning, keeping, maintaining, or
selling of wild or exotic animals, is prohibited. The animal control officer or
any licensed peace officer shall be empowered to immediately impound any wild
or exotic animal found within the City, and to seek whatever legal process is
necessary to enter private property to carry out this directive. It is not a
defense to allege that the animal has been tamed or born and/or raised in
captivity.
   B.   Exceptions: This Section does not apply to:
      1.   Animals that are temporarily brought into the City for the purpose
of participating in an educational program, circus or show, if protective
measures are provided to adequately prevent such animals from escaping or
injuring the public;
      2.   Unconfined wild native animals presently indigenous to the County
that roam free; or
      3.   Wild native animals kept in confinement by zoos, circuses or nature
centers, if protective measures are provided to adequately prevent such animals
from injuring the public are provided.
§ 5-4-7: DANGEROUS DOGS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS:
   A.   Adoption of State Law: Minnesota Statutes Sections 347.50 through
347.565, are hereby adopted. Every provision contained in Minnesota Statutes
Sections 347.50 through 347.565 are hereby adopted and made a part of this
Chapter by reference as if fully set forth herein.
   B.   Determination of Potentially Dangerous or Dangerous Dog: A City animal
control officer or other law enforcement official shall be responsible for
determining whether a dog is a potentially dangerous dog or dangerous dog.
      1.   Notice of Determination: Upon a determination by the animal control
officer or other law enforcement official that a dog is potentially dangerous
or dangerous, the City shall provide the owner with notice of the determination
by delivering or mailing the notice to the owner of the dog, or by posting a
copy of the notice at the place where the dog is kept, or by delivering it to a
person residing on the property, and telephoning, if possible. The notice shall
include:
         a.   A description of the seized dog; the authority for and purpose of
the dangerous dog declaration and seizure; the time, place, and circumstances
under which the dog was declared dangerous; and the telephone number and
contact person where the dog is kept;
         b.   A statement that the owner of the dog may request a hearing
concerning the dangerous dog declaration and, if applicable, prior potentially
dangerous dog declarations for the dog, and that failure to do so within
fourteen (14) days of the date of the notice will terminate the owner’s right
to a hearing under this Section;
         c.   A statement that if an appeal request is made within fourteen
(14) days of the notice, the owner must immediately comply with the
requirements of Minnesota Statutes Section 347.52, paragraphs (a) and (c), and
until such time as the Hearing Officer issues an opinion;
         d.   A statement that if the Hearing Officer affirms the dangerous dog
declaration, the owner will have fourteen (14) days from receipt of that
decision to comply with all other requirements of Minnesota Statutes Sections
347.51, 347.515, and 347.52;
         e.   A form to request a hearing under this subsection;
         f.   A statement that all actual costs of the care, keeping, and
disposition of the dog are the responsibility of the person claiming an
interest in the dog, except to the extent that a court or Hearing Officer finds
that the seizure or impoundment was not substantially justified by law.
      2.   Right to an Administrative Appeal: An owner may appeal a
determination that its dog is potentially dangerous or dangerous by filing a
written request for a hearing pursuant to City Code Section
1-3-4 stating that the owner contests the designation accompanied by a non-
refundable filing fee, within fourteen (14) days of the service of the
potentially dangerous or dangerous dog determination.
         a.   Untimely Appeals: If a timely appeal is not filed, the owner of a
potentially dangerous or dangerous dog must comply with the applicable
requirements set forth in this Section and Minnesota Statutes Sections 347.50
through 347.565.
         b.   Timely Appeals: If a timely appeal is filed from a determination
that a dog is potentially dangerous, the owner must immediately comply with the
requirements of subsection E of this Section, until such time as an opinion is
rendered. If a timely appeal is filed from a determination that a dog is
dangerous, the owner must immediately comply with the requirements of Minnesota
Statutes Section 347.52, paragraphs (a) and (c), and until such time as an
opinion is rendered.
         c.   Hearing Process: If a timely appeal is filed, a hearing shall be
held within fourteen (14) days after the City’s receipt of the appeal and the
following procedures shall be followed:
            (1)   The City shall appoint an impartial Hearing Officer, which
may be from the Office of Administrative Hearings, to conduct the appeal.
            (2)   Both parties may be represented by Counsel, shall have the
opportunity to present testimony, be able to call and question witnesses and
introduce any exhibits; however, strict rules of evidence shall not apply. The
Hearing Officer shall receive and give weight to the evidence, including
hearsay evidence.
            (3)   The Hearing Officer has the authority to do any of the
following, or a combination thereof:
               (a)   Uphold the declaration and require the owner to comply
with all provisions of this subsection within fourteen (14) days; or
               (b)   Overturn the declaration and make findings that no
violation has occurred.
            (4)   If the declaration is upheld, the owner shall pay for the
actual costs of the hearing, not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
            (5)   Failure to appear at the hearing shall result in a default
judgment against the party who fails to appear. If the owner fails to appear,
the declaration shall be upheld and the fee for the cost of the hearing shall
be imposed. If the City fails to appear, the declaration shall be dismissed,
and the filing fee shall be refunded to the owner.
            (6)   The Hearing Officer shall issue a written decision within
fourteen (14) days of the hearing. The decision shall be personally delivered
to the owner or sent by registered mail. The decision of the Hearing Officer is
final.
      3.   Exemption: Dogs may not be declared dangerous if the threat, injury
or damage was sustained by a person:
         a.   Who was committing, at the time, a willful trespass or other tort
upon the premises occupied by the owner of the dog;
         b.   Who was provoking, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog or
who can be known to have repeatedly in the past, provoked, tormented, abused or
assaulted the dog; or
         c.   Who was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   C.   Dangerous Dog Review: Beginning six (6) months after a dog is declared
a dangerous dog, the owner may request annually that the animal control officer
review the designation. The owner must provide evidence that the dog’s behavior
has changed due to the dog’s age, neutering, environment, completion of
obedience training that includes modification of aggressive behavior, or other
factors. If the animal control officer finds sufficient evidence that the dog’s
behavior has changed, then the officer may rescind the dangerous dog
designation.
   D.   Dangerous Dog Registration: No person may own a dangerous dog unless
the dog is annually registered with the City. Such registration will be issued
to the owner of a dangerous dog after the owner presents sufficient evidence to
the animal control officer that:
      1.   A proper enclosure exists for the dangerous dog and the premises are
posted with a clearly visible sign that includes a warning symbol of a
dangerous dog on the property, including a warning symbol to inform children.
The warning symbol must be the uniform symbol issued by the City that was
provided by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
      2.   The owner has obtained a surety bond or policy of liability
insurance in the sum of at least three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00)
insuring the owner for any personal injuries inflicted by the dangerous dog.
      3.   The owner has paid the annual dangerous dog registration fee in
addition to the regular licensing fee described in this Chapter.
      4.   The owner has had microchip identification implanted in the
dangerous dog. The name of the microchip manufacturer and identification number
of the microchip must be provided to the animal control authority.
      5.   The owner provides proof that the dog has been sterilized. If the
owner does not sterilize the dog within thirty (30) days of being notified of
this requirement, the City may seize the dog and have it sterilized at the
owner’s expense.
   E.   Potentially Dangerous Dog Regulation: No person may own a potentially
dangerous dog unless the dog is annually registered with the City. Such
registration will be issued to the owner of a potentially dangerous dog after
the owner presents sufficient evidence to the animal control officer that:
      1.   Within fourteen (14) days of receiving a determination that the dog
is potentially dangerous, that the dog has a microchip implanted for
identification, and the name of the microchip manufacturer and identification
number of the microchip must be provided to the animal control authority.
      2.   When the potentially dangerous dog is outside, the potentially
dangerous dog must be muzzled and under the physical control and restraint of a
responsible person. The muzzle must be made in a manner that will prevent the
dog from biting any person or animal but that will not cause injury to the dog
or interfere with its vision or respiration.
   F.   Pre-License Inspections: Prior to the issuance of any tags for a new
registration of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog, a pre-license
inspection of the premises to ensure compliance with this Code may be required.
The City shall be allowed at any time to inspect the dog, the proper enclosure
and all places where the dog is kept.
   G.   Notification Requirements Upon Death or Relocation:
      1.   Relocation or Death: The owner of a dog that has been declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous must notify the Police Department in writing
if the dog is to be relocated from its current address or if the dog has died.
The notification must be given in writing within thirty (30) days of the
relocation or death. The notification must include the current owner’s name and
address, and the new owner’s name and the relocation address. If the relocation
address is outside of the City, the City may notify the local law enforcement
agency of the transfer of the dog into its jurisdiction.
      2.   Renter’s Obligations: A person who owns or possesses a dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog and who will rent property from another where the dog
will reside must disclose to the property owner prior to entering the lease
agreement and at the time of any lease renewal periods that the person owns or
possesses a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog that will reside at the
property. A dog owner who is currently renting property must notify the
property owner within fourteen (14) days of City notification if the owned dog
is newly declared as dangerous or potentially dangerous and the owner keeps the
dog on the property.
      3.   Transfer of Ownership into the City: No dog that has been previously
determined to be dangerous or potentially dangerous by another jurisdiction
shall be kept, owned or harbored in the City, unless the dog’s owner complies
with the requirements of this Section prior to bringing the dog into the City.
Dogs in violation of this Section are subject to impoundment and destruction.
   H.   List Posted: For the purposes of public notification and public safety,
the City may post a list of potentially dangerous dogs and dangerous dogs on
the official City internet site.
§ 5-4-8: IMPOUNDMENT, SEIZURE, AND REDEMPTION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Authority to Impound: The animal control officer has the authority to
seize and impound in the following circumstances:
      1.   On and after January 1 of each year, any dog or cat found in the
City without the tag provided for in subsection
5-4-4.A.5 of this Chapter.
      2.   Any domestic animals found running at large in the City.
      3.   Any domestic animals found to be habitually barking or crying as
described in subsection
5-4-3.A of this Chapter provided there has been at least one (1) other
documented incident for the same owner or the same animal during the six (6)
months prior.
      4.   Any animal that is not being provided with basic care as described
in subsection
5-4-4.E. of this Chapter.
      5.   Any animal that attacks another animal as described in subsection
5-4-3.D of this Chapter.
      6.   Any animal that is presenting an imminent danger as described in
subsection
5-4-3.E of this Chapter.
      7.   After fourteen (14) days, any designated potentially dangerous or
dangerous dog that has not been properly registered, cared for, possessed, and
licensed pursuant to the requirements of this Chapter and Minnesota Statutes.
   B.   Redemption of Impounded Animals: Any animal may be redeemed from
impound by the owner after payment to the Police Department of the license fee
for the current year, if applicable, as well as impounding fees and maintenance
costs for each day the animal is confined by the animal control authority and
the satisfaction of any additional requirements of this Section.
   C.   Release of Impounded Animals: Upon the presentation of a current
license tag and receipt for a dog or cat license for the current year as well
as the payment of the fees and costs provided in subsection B of this Section,
the animal control authority shall release or cause to be released to any owner
the dog, cat or other animal claimed.
      1.   A dangerous and potentially dangerous dog shall not be released
until the dog owner satisfies the requirements of this Chapter and Minnesota
Statutes.
      2.   Where an animal has been seized due to a lack of basic care or due
to disease, the animal shall not be released to the owner until such release is
approved by a licensed veterinarian and the animal control authority.
   D.   Disposition of Unclaimed Animals: Any unclaimed animal will be disposed
of within ten (10) calendar days after impounding in accordance with the
contract in place with the designated pound facility.
   E.   Procedure for Seizure of Animals When Owner is Not Present: For any of
the circumstances described in this Section, any police officer or animal
control officer may enter upon private property to seize and impound an animal
if:
      1.   The officer has made a reasonable attempt to contact the owner of
the property and those attempts have either failed or have been ignored; and
      2.   The seizure will not involve the forced entry into a private
residence. Use of a passkey obtained from a property manager, landlord,
innkeeper, or other authorized person to have such key shall not be considered
unauthorized or forced entry; and
      3.   Written notice of the seizure and impoundment is left in a
conspicuous place where the dog is kept, and if possible, the owner is
contacted by telephone.
   F.   Special Provisions for Seizure and Confinement of Attacking Animals:
Any animal that attacks a person and such attack results in an abrasion or
puncture of the victim’s skin or where the victim requires the services of a
doctor, the attacking animal shall be confined pursuant to the following
procedure and Minnesota Statutes:
      1.   Confinement in City Pound: Any animal that has not been inoculated
by a live modified rabies vaccine shall be confined in the City pound for a
period of not less than ten (10) days, at the expense of the owner. The animal
may be released at the end of such time if healthy and free from symptoms of
rabies and upon the payment of all maintenance costs by the owner; or
      2.   Alternative Hospital Confinement: The owner of the animal may elect
to voluntarily and immediately confine the animal for the required period of
time in a veterinary hospital within Washington County, and provide immediate
proof of such confinement; or
      3.   Home Confinement: If the animal has been inoculated with a live
modified rabies vaccine and the owner has proof of the vaccination by a
certificate from a licensed veterinarian, the owner may confine the animal to
the owner’s property within a proper enclosure.
§ 5-4-9: DESTRUCTION OF CERTAIN ANIMALS:
   After the animal control officer has provided the owner with notice, the
animal control officer, Police Chief, Hearing Officer, or City Council is
authorized to order the proper and humane destruction of any animal upon a
finding that:
   A.   The animal has habitually destroyed property or habitually trespassed
in a damaging manner on property of persons other than the owner; or
   B.   The dog has been designated as dangerous, the owner’s right to a
hearing and appeal has been exhausted or expired, and the owner has failed to
comply with the provisions of this Section or Minnesota Statutes; or the owner
has voluntarily waived his right to administrative or judicial review and
requests that the dog be destroyed, a court orders that the dog be destroyed;
or
   C.   The dog inflicted substantial or great bodily harm on a human being
without provocation and the owner of the dog has had the opportunity for a
hearing before an impartial Hearing Officer; or
   D.   The owner of the animal has habitually demonstrated an inability or
unwillingness to control the animal and that lack of control results in injury
to persons or other animals; or
   E.   The animal is so severely injured or sick that it is suffering and it
will not likely survive and the owner cannot be immediately located; or
   F.   It is determined that the animal is infected with rabies; or
   G.   The animal presents an imminent danger to the health and safety of any
person or the animal is in the process of attacking any person; or
   H.   The dog acted under any of the circumstances set forth in Minnesota
Statutes Section 347.56.
§ 5-4-10: INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS:
   No person shall in any manner hinder or interfere with any person authorized
by the City Council to discharge their duties under this Section.
§ 5-4-11: CONCEALING ANIMALS:
   No person may harbor, hide, conceal or refuse to produce to an animal
control officer or police officer an animal that has been ordered into custody.
§ 5-4-12: KEEPING OF FOWL OR POULTRY:
   A.   Permit Provisions:
      1.   Permit Required: No person may live on any residential property or
on agricultural property of five (5) acres or less and own, harbor, keep or
have custody of fowl or poultry without a permit from the City. No more than
one (1) permit shall be allowed per property and permits shall not be granted
for properties with more than three (3) dwelling units.
      2.   Payment of Fee; Late Fee: Each owner of fowl or poultry shall obtain
a permit and pay the permit fee when the fowl or poultry attains the age of six
(6) weeks of age, or upon acquiring ownership of the fowl or poultry, or upon
establishing residence in the City, and before January 1 of each year the
permit is due. A late fee will be assessed on all licenses obtained after
January 1 of the year in which the permit is due for fowl or poultry owned
prior to that date. Permit fees are nonrefundable.
      3.   Application For Permit: The owner of fowl or poultry shall provide
the following information or documentation with the permit application:
         a.   Applicant’s name and address.
         b.   Address of the property at which the fowl or poultry will be
kept.
         c.   The name of the property owner, if different than the applicant
and written consent of the property owner for submission of the application.
         d.   A site plan and building plan for the proper enclosure and the
run, including setbacks from all property lines and setbacks from all
structures on the property and on all adjacent properties.
         e.   If the property is subject to a Homeowners’ Association, a
statement from the property owner attesting that the application does not
violate any regulations of the HOA.
         f.   Evidence of completion of a fowl or poultry-keeping course from
the University of Minnesota or other institution approved by the City.
         g.   A statement and signature of the applicant affirming that all of
the information contained in the application is true.
      4.   Permit Period: Permits shall be issued on a calendar year basis for
a period of two (2) years.
      5.   Inspection: The City shall conduct an inspection to confirm all of
the requirements of this Chapter are met and shall submit an inspection report
to the City Clerk.
      6.   Administrative Approval: The City Clerk may administratively approve
any permit that meets the criteria herein, including a satisfactory inspection
report from the City.
      7.   Non-transferrable: Permits are non-transferrable. Any new owner or
tenant of the property must apply for a new permit.
   B.   Exceptions to Permit Requirement: No permit is required for fowl or
poultry that are temporarily brought into the City for the purpose of
participating in an educational program, circus or show, or fowl or poultry
kept by farms greater than five (5) acres, zoos, circuses or nature centers,
veterinary hospitals, animal shelters or educational institutions if protective
measures are provided to adequately prevent such animals from escaping or
injuring the public.
   C.   Limitation on Number and Types of Fowl or Poultry: No person shall keep
more than six (6) fowl or poultry (or any combination thereof). Roosters and
drakes are prohibited, unless in an AG-1 or AG-2 zoning district.
   D.   Proper Enclosure and Run:
      1.   All fowl and poultry shall be kept and entirely confined in proper
enclosure and run to prevent attracting predators and to minimize any
nuisances. The proper enclosure cannot be a residential house or a garage,
unless the fowl or poultry is under six (6) weeks of age for brooding purposes.
      2.   The proper enclosure and run shall be located as follows:
         a.   In a rear yard only, which shall not be adjacent to a street;
         b.   Setback a minimum of ten feet (10') from any property line;
         c.   Closer to the principal dwelling on the property than to any
other residential dwelling on an abutting property;
         d.   Not in a drainage and utility easement, a wetland, wetland buffer
or wetland setback area;
      3.   Dimensions, Materials, other Conditions:
         a.   Dimensions:
            (1)   The proper enclosure shall have an interior floor space of a
minimum of two (2) square feet for each fowl or poultry but shall not exceed 32
square feet in size.
            (2)   The run shall be attached to the proper enclosure and shall
have a minimum area of five (5) square feet per fowl or poultry, but it shall
not exceed twenty (20) square feet per fowl or poultry.
            (3)   The maximum area for the proper enclosure and the run
combined is a total of 120 square feet.
            (4)   The proper enclosure and the run shall not exceed ten feet
(10') in height.
         b.   Materials:
            (1)   The proper enclosure shall be constructed of cedar, redwood
or cypress wood or other durable material and if not integral to the exterior
building material used, must be painted or stained for exterior use.
            (2)   The run shall be fully enclosed on the sides and overhead
with wire or mesh fencing or netting with openings that do not exceed two (2)
inches. There must be support posts of one and one-fourth (1 ¼) inches in
diameter that are sufficiently buried into the ground to provide adequate
support.
            (3)   The proper enclosure shall be winterized to provide adequate
protection and any device for heating (i.e. heat lamp) shall be properly rated
and secured so as not to cause a fire hazard.
            (4)   The construction of and materials used for the proper
enclosure and the run shall be adequate to prevent access by predators and
vermin.
         c.   Conditions:
            (1)   Only one (1) proper enclosure and one (1) run shall be
allowed per property.
            (2)   All proper enclosures and runs shall be kept in a sanitary
and odor free condition, including the frequent and regular removal, storage
and disposal of waste that may create a hazard to the public health, safety and
welfare.
            (3)   Feed must be stored inside the proper enclosure within a
watertight and vermin-proof container.
            (4)   Dead fowl or poultry must be disposed of according to the
Minnesota Board of Animal Health rules within forty-eight (48) to seventy-two
(72) hours and methods of disposal include incineration, rendering or
composting.
   E.   Prohibited Activities:
      1.   Eggs shall not be offered for sale or sold, unless it is a
traditional farm that meet the requirements of the Minnesota Department of
Agriculture Dairy and Food Inspection Division regulations.
      2.   Slaughtering of fowl or poultry on the property is prohibited.
      3.   Fowl or poultry shall not be kept for breeding purposes.
   F.   Termination of Permit; Violations:
      1.   Failure to own, harbor, keep or have custody of fowl or poultry for
a period of twelve (12) consecutive months is cause for immediate termination
of the permit.
      2.   If the permit holder moves from the property, the permit shall
terminate.
      3.   Upon a recommendation from the Code Enforcement Officer due to
violations of this Chapter, the City Clerk may immediately terminate the
permit.
      4.   Violations of this Chapter are deemed to be a public nuisance,
subject to the penalties provided in Title 4, Chapter 1, including, but not
limited to abatement (Section
4-1-6), impound and destruction of the fowl or poultry (Section
5-4-9), and the general penalties in Title 1, Chapter 3.
   G.   Appeals: An owner or applicant may appeal a decision by the City Clerk
by following the procedures set forth in City Code Section
1-3-4.
§ 5-4-13: TEMPORARY KEEPING OF GOATS FOR VEGETATION MANAGEMENT:
   It is the purpose of this Section to permit the temporary keeping of goats
brought in for the purpose of vegetation management where vegetation, which may
include non-native, invasive or noxious species cannot be otherwise reasonably
removed using conventional methods.
   A.   Definitions: The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this
Chapter shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   BUCK: Means a male goat.
   DOE: Means a female goat.
   GOAT: Means an animal in the subspecies of Capra aegagrus hircus.
   GRAZING: Means goats eating vegetation.
   WETHERS: Means a castrated buck.
   B.   Permit Required: Except as provided in Section
5-4-13.G, no person shall stable, keep, or permit any goats to temporarily
remain on any lot or premises within the City without a permit.
      1.   Upon receipt of a completed application as provided in
5-4-13.C, the City shall send a notice to property owners that are located
within one hundred fifty feet (150') of the grazing area that there is a permit
application. Such notice shall not be required if the grazing area is one
hundred fifty feet (150') or more from any residential building or commercial
building on the adjacent property. If, within ten (10) days of such notice,
there are objections by seventy-five percent (75%) of the property owners in
the notice area, then the permit must be approved by the Council.
      2.   Following the expiration of the ten (10) day notice period above,
absent the receipt of the required number of objections by property owners in
the notice area, the City Clerk or designee shall issue a permit for goats.
Failure to meet the requirements shall result in denial of the permit.
   C.   Application: Any person desiring a permit required under the provisions
of this subsection shall make written application to the City Clerk upon a form
provided by the City. The application shall contain the following:
      1.   A description of the real property upon which it is desired to keep
goats.
      2.   The breed and number of goats to be maintained on the property.
      3.   The dates the goats will be kept at the property.
      4.   A detailed site plan of the property showing the location and size
of the proposed grazing area, including dimensions, a list of the vegetation on
the property that is sought to be controlled by the grazing and the location of
the fencing, as well as any goat pen or enclosure.
      5.   List of person(s) managing and monitoring the goats, including
twenty-four (24) hour contact information, accompanied by evidence of liability
insurance in the amount of at least one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per
occurrence.
      6.   Signature from the applicant that the applicant will at all times
keep the goats in accordance with all of the conditions prescribed by the City
Clerk, or modification thereof, and that failure to obey such conditions will
constitute a violation of the provisions of this Section and grounds for
revocation of the permit.
      7.   Signature of the property owner, if different than the applicant.
      8.   Application fee as established in the City’s fee ordinance.
   D.   Limitations for the Keeping of Goats.
      1.   Permitted and Prohibited Goats: Does and wethers are permitted;
bucks are prohibited.
      2.   Permits shall not be granted from December through March.
      3.   Fences: Every owner, keeper, custodian, or harborer of goats shall
erect and/or maintain a temporary or permanent fence to contain and confine all
goats kept on the premises. The fence shall of sufficient height to contain the
goats. A permanent fence shall comply with all fence requirements of this Code.
Any temporary electric fence shall have appropriate warning signs. The goats
may be moved to a separate holding pen at night, which shall be located at
least one hundred fifty feet (150') from all residential buildings. All fencing
and any temporary holding pens must be removed within seven (7) days after the
goats are removed from the property.
      4.   Number of Goats Allowed: Up to four (4) goats on parcels that are
ten thousand (10,000) square feet in area or less, with one (1) additional goat
per every one thousand (1,000) square feet of lot area over ten thousand
(10,000) square feet.
      5.   Nuisance: Goats shall not be kept in such a manner as to constitute
a nuisance to the occupants of adjacent property.
      6.   The property shall be available for inspections by the City at all
reasonable times to determine compliance with this Section, other City Codes or
State law.
   E.   Violations:
      1.   A violation of any provision of this Section or a condition of the
permit shall be grounds for revocation of the permit by the City Clerk.
      2.   Any person violating any conditions of this permit shall reimburse
the City for all costs borne by the City to enforce the conditions of the
permit including but not limited to the impounding and safekeeping of the
goats.
   F.   Term of Permit: No property owner or person shall store goats on a
property for more than thirty (30) consecutive days or sixty (60) days in any
twelve (12) month period starting with the date the animals are moved onto the
property.
   G.   Exception: No permit shall be required by a government agency as part
of a vegetation management program on City, County, or state-owned property.
§ 5-4-14: KEEPING OF BEES:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish certain
requirements for beekeeping within the City, to avoid issues that might
otherwise be associated with beekeeping in populated areas.
      1.   Compliance with this section shall not be a defense to a proceeding
alleging that a given colony constitutes a nuisance, but such compliance may be
offered as evidence of the beekeeper’s efforts to abate any proven nuisance.
      2.   Compliance with this section shall not be a defense to a proceeding
alleging that a given colony violates applicable ordinances regarding public
health, but such compliance may be offered as evidence of the beekeeper’s
compliance with acceptable standards of practice among hobby beekeepers in the
State of Minnesota.
   B.   Definitions: The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this
Chapter have the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   APIARY: The assembly of one or more colonies of bees at a single location.
   BEEKEEPER: A person who owns or has charge of one or more colonies of bees.
   BEEKEEPING EQUIPMENT: Anything used in the operation of any apiary, such as
hive bodies, supers, frames, top and bottofn boards, and extractors.
   COLONY: An aggregate of bees consisting principally of workers, but having,
when perfect, one queen and at times drones, brood, combs, and honey.
   HIVE: The receptacle inhabited by a colony that is manufactured for that
purpose.
   HONEYBEE: All life stages of the common domestic honeybee, apis mellifera
(African subspecies and Faricanized hybrids are not allowed).
   LOT: A contiguous parcel of land under common ownership.
   C.   Standards of practice.
      1.   Honeybee colonies shall be kept in hives with removable frames,
which must be kept in sound and usable conditions.
      2.   Each beekeeper must ensure that a convenient source of water is
immediately available for each colony at all times that the colonies remain
active outside the hive.
      3.   Each beekeeper must ensure that beekeeping equipment, wax comb and
other material be handled and stored in sealed containers, or placed within a
building or other verminproof container.
      4.   Each beekeeper shall maintain his beekeeping equipment in good
condition, including keeping the hives painted if they have been painted but
are peeling or flaking, and securing unused equipment from weather.
      5.   Colonies must be fenced to prevent or deter unauthorized access. All
fencing shall meet the requirements of City Code Section 11-3-6.
      6.   Colony Density. No person is permitted to keep more than the
following numbers of colonies on any lot within the City, based upon the size
of the apiary lot:
         a.   Two colonies for parcels that are one-half acre lot or less;
         b.   Three additional colonies allowed per every additional % acre;
         c.   A beekeeper may keep more than the allowable number of the
colonies if the property upon which the colonies are kept is greater than five
acres.
      7.   Colonies must be located:
         a.   In a rear yard not adjacent to a street;
         b.   At least 25 feet from any residence on the lot or any adjacent
lot;
         c.   Set back at least 10 feet from any property line.
      8.   Sales of Products. Public sales of bee products may occur on the
premises pursuant to the following requirements:
         a.   Food products and packaging of all bee products must comply with
State and Federal laws.
         b.   Occupant must comply with home occupation requirements pursuant
to City Code Section
11-4-3.
   D.   Permit Required.
      1.   No beekeeping may occur on any property in the City without a permit
issued by the City.
      2.   A permit application must be completed by the beekeeper on forms
provided by the City with signed consent from the property owner, if different
than the beekeeper.
      3.   The property must be zoned Agricultural (AG-1, AG-2), or single-
family residential (R- 1, R-2, R-3, orR-4).
      4.   The permit will be valid for a period of two years.
      5.   Permits are non-transferable from person to person or from property
to property and do not run with the land.
      6.   All standards of practice and colony density standards shall be met
in order for a permit to be issued.
      7.   A permit shall be administratively issued by the City Clerk if all
of the conditions are met.
      8.   If any provisions of this Chapter are violated, the permit may be
revoked by the City.
      9.   Beekeeping training is recommended for the beekeeper prior to
issuance of an initial beekeeping permit by the City. Suggested beekeeping
courses are offered by the University of Minnesota and Century College.
   E.   City Inspections. The City shall conduct an inspection to confirm all
of the requirements of this Chapter are met prior to issuance of an initial
permit and shall submit an inspection report to the City Clerk with a
recommendation. The City is authorized to reinspect any property with a valid
permit for purposes of determining compliance with this Chapter. (Ord. 1076, 8-
16-2023)
CHAPTER 5: GRAFFITI PREVENTION
Section
5-5-1: Purpose and Intent
5-5-2: Definitions
5-5-3: Prohibited Acts
5-5-4: Removal of Graffiti; Costs
§ 5-5-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose: The City Council is enacting this Chapter to help prevent the
spread of graffiti vandalism and to establish a program for the removal of
graffiti from public and private property. The Council finds that graffiti is a
public nuisance and destructive of the rights and values of property owners as
well as the entire community. Unless the City acts to remove graffiti from
public and private property, the graffiti tends to remain. Other properties
then become the target of graffiti, and entire neighborhoods are affected and
become less desirable places in which to be, all to the detriment of the City.
   B.   Intent: The City Council intends, through the adoption of this Chapter,
to provide additional enforcement tools to protect public and private property
from acts of graffiti vandalism and defacement. The Council does not intend for
this Chapter to conflict with any existing anti-graffiti State laws.
§ 5-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINER: Any aerosol container that is adapted or made for
the purpose of applying spray paint or other substances capable of defacing
property.
   BROAD-TIPPED MARKER: Any felt tip indelible marker or similar implement with
a flat or angled writing surface that, at its broadest width is greater than
one-fourth inch (1/4"), containing ink or other pigmented liquid that is not
water soluble.
   ETCHING EQUIPMENT: Any tool, device, or substance that can be used to make
permanent marks on any natural or human-made surface.
   GRAFFITI: Any unauthorized inscription, word, figure, painting or other
defacement that is written, marked, etched, scratched, sprayed, drawn, painted,
or engraved on or otherwise affixed to any surface of public or private
property by any graffiti implement, to the extent that the graffiti was not
authorized in advance by the owner or occupant of the property or, despite
advanced authorization, is otherwise deemed a public nuisance by the City
Council.
   GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT: An aerosol paint container, a broad-tipped marker, gum
label, paint stick or graffiti stick, etching equipment, brush or any other
device capable of scarring or leaving a visible mark on any natural or human-
made surface.
   PAINT STICK OR GRAFFITI STICK: Any device containing a solid form of paint,
chalk, wax, epoxy, or other similar substance capable of being applied to a
surface by pressure and leaving a mark of at least one-eighth inch (1/8") in
width.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, cooperative association, private
corporation, personal representative, receiver, trustee, assignee, or any other
legal entity.
§ 5-5-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Defacement: It shall be unlawful for any person to apply graffiti to
any natural or human-made surface on any City-owned property or, without the
permission of the owner or occupant, on any non-City-owned property.
   B.   Possession of Graffiti Implements:
      1.   Minors at or Near School Facilities: It is unlawful for any person
under the age of eighteen (18) years to possess any graffiti implement while on
any school property, grounds, facilities, buildings, or structures, or in areas
immediately adjacent to those specific locations upon public property, or upon
private property without the prior written consent of the owner or occupant of
such private property. The provision of this subsection does not apply to the
possession of broad-tipped markers by a minor attending or traveling to or from
a school at which the minor is enrolled if the minor is participating in a
class at the school that formally requires the possession of broad-tipped
markers. The burden of proof in any prosecution for violation of this
subsection is upon the minor student to establish the need to possess a broad-
tipped marker.
      2.   Designated Public Places: It is unlawful for any person to possess
any graffiti implement while in or upon any public facility, park, playground,
swimming pool, recreational facility, or other public building or structure
owned or operated by the City or while in or within fifty feet (50') of an
underpass, bridge abutment, storm drain, or similar types of infrastructure
unless otherwise authorized by the City.
§ 5-5-4: REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI; COSTS:
   A.   Responsibility for Removal: It is the duty of the owner or person in
possession of the property to which the graffiti has been applied or the
perpetrator, if known, to remove graffiti. Where graffiti is applied by an
unemancipated minor, the parents or legal guardian is also responsible for such
removal or for the payment for the removal.
   B.   Graffiti that is not removed following notice and time to cure shall be
deemed a nuisance and subject to abatement pursuant to City Code Section
4-1-6.
CHAPTER 6: SOCIAL HOSTS
Section
5-6-1: Purpose and Findings
5-6-2: Definitions
5-6-3: Prohibited Acts
5-6-4: Exceptions
§ 5-6-1: PURPOSE AND FINDINGS:
   The City Council intends to discourage underage consumption of alcohol, even
if done within the confines of a private residence and intends to hold persons
criminally responsible who host events or gatherings where persons under
twenty-one (21) years of age consume alcohol regardless of whether the person
hosting the event or gathering supplied the alcohol. The City Council finds
that:
   A.   Events and gatherings held on private or public property where alcohol
is consumed by persons under the age of twenty-one (21) are harmful to those
persons and constitute a potential threat to public health requiring prevention
or abatement.
   B.   Events and gatherings held on private or public property where alcohol
is consumed by persons under the age of twenty-one (21) disturb neighbors,
damage property, and jeopardize their own or others’ safety.
   C.   Events and gatherings held on private or public property where alcohol
is consumed by persons under the age of twenty-one (21) are responsible for a
disproportionate expenditure of public safety resources which can delay or
reduce the ability of the police, fire, or EMS to respond to other emergencies.
   D.   Prohibiting underage consumption acts to protect underage persons, as
well as the general public, from injuries related to alcohol consumption, such
as alcohol overdose or alcohol related traffic collisions.
   E.   Often, events or gatherings involving underage consumption occur
outside the presence of parents or other responsible adults. However, there are
times when the parent or other adult is present and condones the activity, and,
in some circumstances, provides the alcohol.
   F.   Even though giving or furnishing alcohol to an underage person is a
crime, it is difficult to prove, and an ordinance is necessary to help further
combat underage consumption.
   G.   A deterrent effect will be created by holding a person criminally
responsible for hosting an event or gathering where underage consumption
occurs.
§ 5-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine,
whiskey, rum, brandy, gin, or any other distilled spirits including dilutions
and mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every liquid
or solid containing alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, or beer, and which contains
one-half (1/2) of one percent (1%) or more of alcohol by volume and which his
fit for beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed or combined with
other substances.
   EVENT OR GATHERING: Any group of three (3) or more persons who have
assembled or gathered together for a social occasion or other activity.
   HOST OR ALLOW: To aid, conduct, sponsor, entertain, organize, supervise,
control, or permit a gathering or event.
   PARENT: Any person having legal custody of a juvenile:
   A.   As a natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent;
   B.   As a legal guardian; or
   C.   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the court.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, partnership, corporation, or any
association of one (1) or more individuals. A person does not include any city,
county, or state agency.
   RESIDENCE OR PREMISES: Any location, including a home, yard, farm, field,
land, apartment, condominium, hotel or motel room, or other dwelling unit, or a
hall or meeting room, park, or any other place of assembly, public or private,
whether occupied on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a
dwelling or specifically for a party or other social function, and whether
owned, leased, rented, or used with or without permission or compensation.
   UNDERAGE PERSON: Any individual under twenty-one (21) years of age.
§ 5-6-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to host or allow an event or gathering at
any residence or premises where alcohol or alcoholic beverages are present and
underage persons may also be present if the person hosting the event or
gathering knows or reasonably should know that the underage person will or does
consume any alcohol or alcoholic beverage.
   B.   A person is criminally responsible for violating subsection A of this
Section if the person intentionally aids, advises, hires, counsels, or
conspires with or otherwise procures another to commit the prohibited act.
   C.   A person who hosts an event or gathering does not have to be present at
the event or gathering to be criminally responsible.
§ 5-6-4: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   This Chapter does not apply to conduct solely between an underage
person and their parents while present in the parent’s household.
   B.   This Chapter does not apply to legally protected religious observances.
   C.   This Chapter does not apply to situations where underage persons are
lawfully in possession of alcohol or alcoholic beverages during the course and
scope of employment.
TITLE 6: MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
Section
6-1-1: State Highway Traffic Regulation Act Adopted; Exceptions
6-1-2: Unattended Vehicles
6-1-3: Traffic on Certain Streets: Hadley Avenue, Between 80th and 90th Streets
6-1-4: Abatement of Vehicles
§ 6-1-1: STATE HIGHWAY TRAFFIC REGULATION ACT ADOPTED; EXCEPTIONS:
   Except for Minnesota Statutes Sections 169.04, 169.10, 169.11, 169.66,
169.78, 169.965, 169.966, and 169.98, Chapter 169, known as the Highway Traffic
Regulation Act, is hereby adopted as a traffic regulations ordinance for the
City. Every provision contained in such chapter is hereby adopted and made a
part of this Title by reference, as if fully set forth herein.
§ 6-1-2: UNATTENDED VEHICLES:
   No person shall leave a motor vehicle, except a commercial motor vehicle, in
a business or industrial district, unattended on any street, alley, used car
lot or unattended parking lot in the City without first stopping the engine,
locking the ignition, removing the key and taking it with them; provided, that
any violation of these provisions shall not mitigate the offense of stealing
such motor vehicle nor shall such violation be used to effect a recovery in any
civil action for the theft of such motor vehicle or the insurance thereon or
have any other bearing on any civil action.
§ 6-1-3: TRAFFIC ON CERTAIN STREETS: HADLEY AVENUE, BETWEEN 80TH AND 90TH
STREETS:
   A.   Definition: As used in this Section, “Gross weight” means the unloaded
weight of a vehicle or the unloaded weight of a truck-tractor and semitrailer
combination, plus the weight of the load.
   B.   Weight Restrictions: No person shall operate a motor vehicle of over
fifteen thousand (15,000) pounds gross weight on or over the portion of Hadley
Avenue lying between 80th and 90th Streets in the City.
   C.   Temporary Permit: The Director of Public Works shall have authority to
issue temporary permits for motor vehicles of over fifteen thousand (15,000)
pounds gross weight to operate on that portion of Hadley Avenue described in
subsection B of this Section.
   D.   Exempt Vehicles: The provisions of this Section shall not apply to
vehicles owned by or performing work for: (1) a sanitation company; (2) a
utility company; (3) the City; (4) the County; (5) the State; (6) the United
States; (7) the school district transportation offices; or (8) the Metropolitan
Transit Commission.
§ 6-1-4: ABATEMENT OF VEHICLES:
   Any vehicle in violation of this Chapter is deemed to be a public nuisance
and may be abated pursuant to City Code Section
4-1-6. The disposition of any impounded vehicle may be reclaimed pursuant to
City Code Section
4-1-4.D.7.
CHAPTER 2: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
6-2-1: General Parking Restrictions
6-2-2: Parking for Handicapped Persons
6-2-3: Private Parking Lots
6-2-4: Parking or Storage of Certain Vehicles Deemed Public Nuisance
§ 6-2-1: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   On Street Parking Restrictions:
      1.   Snow and Ice Removal Between November 1 and March 31: Between
November 1 and March 31, no vehicle shall be left standing or parked on the
streets of the City between the hours of two o’clock (2:00) A.M. and six
o’clock (6:00) A.M. on any day. At all other hours during such period, on
street parking shall be permitted only when the same does not interfere with
the removal of snow and ice from the City streets, and vehicles so parked shall
be removed from the street by their owners. If a motor vehicle is found in
violation of this subsection, a police officer is authorized to issue a
citation and/or have the motor vehicle removed at the owner’s expense.
      2.   Snow and Ice Removal Before November 1 and After March 31: Before
November 1 and after March 31, on street parking shall be permitted only when
the same does not interfere with the removal of snow and ice from the City
streets, and vehicles so parked shall be removed from the street by their
owners. It shall be unlawful to park on such streets until the snow removal
operation is completed in the area involved. If a motor vehicle is found in
violation of this subsection a police officer is authorized to ticket and/or
have the motor vehicle removed at the owner’s expense. The Director of Public
Safety or their designee may authorize a temporary stay of the enforcement of
this ordinance if the circumstances are warranted.
      3.   Number of Days Limited: No vehicle shall be parked continuously on a
public street for a period of seventy-two (72) hours or more. This prohibition
is in addition to subsection A.1 of this Section.
      4.   Exemptions: All emergency and official vehicles responding to an
emergency call, including doctors’ automobiles, shall be excluded from the
provisions of this subsection A.
   B.   No Parking Zones: No vehicle shall be left standing or parked on the
streets of the City:
      1.   Where any section of street has been designated as a no parking zone
by resolution of the City Council or by order of the Public Safety Director or
their designee.
      2.   Within fifteen feet (15') of any mailbox on Monday through Saturday.
   C.   Liability of Owner: Whenever any motor vehicle shall be parked or left
standing within the City by any person other than the owner, with the consent
of the owner, express or implied, the operator thereof shall be deemed to be
the agent of the owner of such motor vehicle for the purposes of subsections A
and B of this Section.
§ 6-2-2: PARKING FOR HANDICAPPED PERSONS:
   A.   Parking Restrictions: No person shall park a motor vehicle in a parking
space designated and reserved for the physically handicapped, on either private
or public property, unless:
      1.   That person is physically handicapped in a manner rendering it
difficult and burdensome for such person to walk or such person is operating
the vehicle under the direction of such a physically handicapped person; and
      2.   The vehicle visibly bears or contains the certificate or insignia
issued to physically handicapped persons by the Minnesota Department of Public
Safety pursuant to Minnesota Statutes Section 169.345, subdivision 2.
   B.   Signs Posted: Notice of such designation of handicapped parking spaces
shall be given by the posting of appropriate signs.
   C.   Prima Facie Proof: In any prosecution charging a violation of the
provisions of this Section, proof of the identity of the registered owner of
the particular vehicle described in the citation or complaint at the time of
the violation shall create a prima facie presumption that the individual was
the person who parked such vehicle at the point where the violation occurred.
   D.   Violation; Vehicle Impoundment: A violation of this Section shall
constitute a petty misdemeanor. Vehicles in violation may be removed,
impounded, and kept in custody under the direction of the Director of Public
Safety.
§ 6-2-3: PRIVATE PARKING LOTS:
   A.   Purposes: The purposes of this Section are to promote the safe
operation of motor vehicles on public roads and highways and in private parking
lots and to protect the public health, safety and general welfare of persons
using private parking lots.
   B.   Definitions: The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this
Chapter shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   OPERATING: Controlling or parking a motor vehicle. For the purposes of this
Section, a motor vehicle located in a private parking lot shall constitute
prima facie evidence that the vehicle was operated in such private parking lot.
   PRIVATE PARKING LOT: A parking lot ordinarily used by, or accessible to the
public, and any driveways connecting such parking lot to a public street or
highway, except driveways in zoning districts R1 through R4, inclusive.
   A.   Prohibited Acts: The following acts are prohibited:
      1.   Operating a motor vehicle in a private parking lot without proper
motor vehicle equipment as required by Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 169, the
Highway Traffic Regulation Act.
      2.   Operating a motor vehicle in a private parking lot without proper
insurance as required by Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 65B, the No Fault
Automobile Insurance Act.
      3.   Operating a motor vehicle in a private parking lot without proper
vehicle registration as required by Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 168.
      4.   Operating a motor vehicle in a private parking lot without a proper
driver’s license as required by Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 171.
§ 6-2-4: PARKING OR STORAGE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES DEEMED PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   A.   Findings: The presence and accumulation of an excessive number of motor
vehicles, or improper parking and storage of such vehicles on real property is
hereby found to create an unsightly condition tending to reduce the value of
real property, to create fire and safety hazards, and to constitute an
attractive nuisance creating a hazard to the public health and safety. The
accumulation or improper parking of such vehicles is further found to promote
blight and deterioration in the community; and to violate the zoning
regulations of the City in many instances, particularly where such vehicles are
maintained in required setback areas of residential property. Therefore, the
accumulation and improper parking of such vehicles on real property is hereby
declared to constitute a public nuisance which may be abated pursuant to City
Code Section
4-1-6 and reclaimed pursuant to City Code Section
4-1-4.D.7.
   B.   Definitions: The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this
Chapter shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE, CLASS I: Vehicles exceeding an axle weight of five (5)
tons or more, or any of the following types of vehicles, regardless of axle
weight: semitrailers, the tractor portion of semitrucks, garbage trucks, tank
trucks, dump trucks, flatbed trucks, tow trucks, cattle trucks, trucks carrying
or designed to carry explosive or flammable materials, well drilling equipment,
earth moving equipment, or school buses.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE, CLASS II: All commercial vehicles other than class 1
commercial vehicles including pickup trucks, vans, trailers, and recreational
vehicles which are used for commercial purposes.
   PARK OR PARKING: The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, other
than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in, receiving,
or discharging passengers or loading or unloading merchandise, or in obedience
to traffic regulations, signs or signals or an involuntary stopping of the
vehicle by reason of causes beyond the control of the operator of the vehicle.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Any vehicle used primarily for recreation including,
but not limited to, a camper, snowmobile, trail bike, all-terrain vehicle,
motor vehicle licensed for highway operation which is being used for off road
recreational purposes, boat or other recreational watercraft, and any trailer
for transportation of such recreational vehicle.
   TRAILER: Any device designed for carrying persons or property which is drawn
by a vehicle and is not self-propelled. For purposes of this Section, a trailer
shall be deemed a vehicle whether standing alone or hitched to another vehicle.
   VEHICLE: Any self-propelled device in, or upon, or by which any person or
property is or may be transported. A vehicle properly loaded on a trailer shall
constitute a single vehicle.
   C.   General Parking Requirements: Vehicles must be parked in accordance
with the following provisions:
      1.   A vehicle must not be parked upon the private property of any person
without the consent of such property owner.
      2.   In residential districts, no more than a total of four (4) vehicles
may be parked on a single lot outside of a building or accessory structure.
      3.   In residential districts, the parking surface must extend a minimum
of one foot (1') around the perimeter of the vehicle.
      4.   A parked vehicle on public or private property must not be parked in
a location or manner which limits or impairs sightlines for motorists traveling
in the public right of way.
      5.   An uncoupled boat, camper, or trailer may not be parked on any
public right of way.
      6.   A recreational vehicle or any trailer attached to a motor vehicle
may not be parked in the public right of way except for the purposes of loading
or unloading or rendering service.
   D.   Class I Commercial Vehicle Parking Restricted in Residential Areas:
      1.   No class I commercial vehicle may be parked in a residential
district except as follows:
         a.   Class 1 commercial vehicles while loading, unloading, or
rendering a service.
         b.   Moving vans may be parked for up to a forty-eight (48) hour
period adjacent to the dwelling.
   E.   Class 2 Commercial Vehicle Parking in Residential Districts Restricted:
No more than one (1) class 2 commercial vehicle may be parked or stored on a
property located in a residential district.
   F.   Blocking Entries Prohibited: No person shall park a vehicle upon a
highway in front of or within ten feet (10') on either side of the entrance to
any building designated by official no parking signs.
CHAPTER 3: TOWING SERVICES
Section
6-3-1: Purpose
6-3-2: Bids and Contracts
6-3-3: Compliance with Towing and Impounding Specifications
§ 6-3-1: PURPOSE:
   The Public Safety Department requests that motor vehicles be towed in order
to remove them from the public right of way.
§ 6-3-2: BIDS AND CONTRACTS:
   The City shall let bids for a towing company to provide the towing and
impound service needs of the City. The contract shall be awarded for up to
three (3) years to the lowest responsible bidder.
§ 6-3-3: COMPLIANCE WITH TOWING AND IMPOUNDING SPECIFICATIONS:
   Detailed specifications for the towing and impounding of vehicles shall be
complied with by the provider. A tow provider shall meet the minimum standards
provided in the specifications in order to provide the service required by the
Public Safety Department. The requirements of this Chapter must be met in order
to be eligible to provide the City’s towing services on a contract.
CHAPTER 4: SNOWMOBILES
Section
6-4-1: State Regulations Adopted
6-4-2: Definitions
6-4-3: Vehicle Registration Required
6-4-4: Operators of Snowmobiles
6-4-5: Operation in Certain Areas Restricted
6-4-6: Hours of Operation
6-4-7: Speed Limit; Reckless Operation
6-4-8: Equipment Requirements
6-4-9: Enforcement
§ 6-4-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
   Minnesota Statutes Sections 84.81 through 84.88 are hereby adopted as
snowmobile regulations of the City and made part of this Title by reference as
if fully set forth herein.
§ 6-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   BOULEVARD: The portions of the street right of way between the curb and/or
street line and the property line.
   DESIGNATED TRAIL: That series of snowmobile trails designated on a map dated
October 1 of each year and labeled snowmobile designated trail system, which
map is on file with the City Clerk, reviewed by the Public Safety, Health and
Welfare Commission and approved by the City Council.
   EASEMENT: A grant by an owner of land for a specific use by persons other
than the owner.
   ROADWAY: That portion of a street right of way improved, designed, or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
   SNOWMOBILE: A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice
steered by skis or runners.
   WRITTEN PERMISSION: The expressed written permission of the owner of the
land authorizing snowmobile use. The written permission must be on file with
the Police Department, or in the alternative, the operator must have the
written permission on their person and in their possession while operating the
snowmobile; the written permission shall specify the specific area where
operation is permitted.
§ 6-4-3: VEHICLE REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   No person shall operate a snowmobile within the City unless it is registered
as provided by State law.
§ 6-4-4: OPERATORS OF SNOWMOBILES:
   A.   Ages of Operators; Application of Certificate:
      1.   Children under the age of twelve (12) are not allowed to operate a
snowmobile on designated public lands or waters and are prohibited to cross
streets or highways.
      2.   Children ages twelve (12) and thirteen (13) can operate a snowmobile
upon designated lands and/or waters with a snowmobile safety certificate. They
are prohibited to cross any street or highway.
      3.   Children ages fourteen (14) through seventeen (17) can operate a
snowmobile upon designated public lands or waters with a snowmobile safety
certificate. They can cross legally designated streets and highways.
      4.   Persons ages eighteen (18) and over can operate snowmobiles upon
designated public lands or waters without a certificate.
§ 6-4-5: OPERATION IN CERTAIN AREAS RESTRICTED:
   A.   The operation of snowmobiles within the City is prohibited except:
      1.   Upon a designated snowmobile trail system approved by the City.
      2.   When used by law enforcement in the officers’ performance of their
duties.
      3.   Upon private land with the expressed written permission of the
owner.
      4.   Upon the highway right of way of U.S. Highway 61 and Highway 95,
which is in conformance with Minnesota State Statutes.
   B.   Snowmobile operation is prohibited on Jamaica Avenue between 70th
Street and East Point Douglas Road and on 70th Street west of Keats Avenue;
snowmobiles may otherwise be operated upon a public roadway when a snowmobile
is being operated on the most direct route from the operator’s residence to
access or return from a designated snowmobile trail system when:
      1.   The snowmobile is operated in single file.
      2.   The snowmobile is operated on the extreme right-hand curb line.
      3.   The snowmobile is operated at a speed not greater than thirty (30)
miles per hour.
      4.   The snowmobile is being operated on the most direct route to access
or return from a designated snowmobile trail system.
   C.   As part of the designated trail system, a snowmobile may enter upon and
cross street rights of way under the following conditions:
      1.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety degrees
(90°) to the direction of the public street or public highway and at a place
where no obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing; and
      2.   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way of the public street or public highway; and
      3.   The driver yields the right of way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard; and
      4.   Crossing a divided public street or public highway, the crossing is
made only at an intersection of such public street or public highway with
another public street or public highway.
§ 6-4-6: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   Except when being operated on a designated trail system, snowmobiles may be
operated within the City only during the following hours:
   A.   Between the hours of seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o’clock (10:00)
P.M., Sunday through Thursday.
   B.   On Friday from seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. to one o’clock (1:00) A.M. on
Saturday morning.
   C.   On Saturday from seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. until one o’clock (1:00)
A.M. on Sunday morning.
§ 6-4-7: SPEED LIMIT; RECKLESS OPERATION:
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any snowmobile in
the following ways:
   A.   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under all the
surrounding circumstances; and
   B.   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger the
person or property of another or to cause injury or damage to person or
property.
§ 6-4-8: EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Vehicle Equipment: It shall be unlawful to operate or ride upon a
snowmobile in the City without the following equipment:
      1.   Muffler: A standard engine muffler and exhaust system in good
operating condition to prevent excessive noise. No person shall use a muffler
cutout, bypass or similar device to defeat such muffling.
      2.   Throttle: A safety or deadman throttle which automatically cuts the
fuel supply to the engine whenever the operator releases pressure on the
throttle.
      3.   Lights: A headlight and taillight displayed when operating.
   B.   Helmets: No person shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile
while it is being operated on the roadways or highway within the City without
wearing a protective helmet that complies with standards established by the
Minnesota Commissioner of Public Safety.
§ 6-4-9: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Official: A peace officer is hereby authorized and
empowered to enforce all requirements of this Chapter and related State
Statutes.
   B.   Impoundment; Redemption; Disposal: A peace officer is hereby authorized
and empowered to seize and confiscate any snowmobile, trailer or vehicle used
by the owner or any other person with their knowledge in violating this
Chapter. Upon conclusion of the prosecution of any case, the snowmobile,
trailer, or vehicle seized pursuant to this Section shall be returned to the
lawful owner thereof upon payment to the City of all costs incurred by the City
in seizure, to include towing fees and storage or impound fees. In the event
the lawful owner cannot be determined or located, the property shall be
disposed of in compliance with State Statute or court order.
   C.   Violation: All violations of this Chapter and/or State statutes, unless
otherwise designated, relating to the operation of snowmobiles, shall be
punishable as a misdemeanor.
   D.   Liability of Registered Owner:
      1.   The person registered as owner of a snowmobile may be charged with a
misdemeanor if a snowmobile bearing their registration number is operated
contrary to the provisions of this Chapter. The registered owner may not be so
charged if:
         a.   The snowmobile was reported as stolen to a law enforcement agency
at the time of the alleged unlawful act.
         b.   The registered owner demonstrates that the snowmobile was stolen.
         c.   The registered owner furnished to law enforcement officers, upon
request, the identity of the person in actual physical control of the
snowmobile at the time of such violation.
      2.   The provisions of this subsection D do not apply to any person who
rents or leases a snowmobile if such person keeps a record of the name and
address of the person or persons renting or leasing such snowmobile, the
registration number thereof, the departure date and time and expected time of
return thereof. Such record shall be preserved for at least six (6) months and
shall be prima facie evidence that the person named therein was the operator
thereof at the time it was operated contrary to this Chapter. The provisions of
this subsection D do not prohibit or limit the prosecution of a snowmobile
operator for violating any provisions of this Chapter.
CHAPTER 5: RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
6-5-1: Definitions
6-5-2: Operation Restrictions
6-5-3: Storage and Parking of Recreational and Other Electric or Motorized
Vehicles
6-5-4: Hours of Operation
6-5-5: Noise Limits
6-5-6: Helmets
§ 6-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   PRIVATE PROPERTY: All lands other than public property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY: Lands owned by the United States, the State, or any
political subdivision thereof.
   RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle designed for, used or capable
of use for sport, amusement or recreation, whether or not eligible to be
licensed for use upon streets and highways, including, but not limited to
electric or liquid fuel powered scooters, minibikes, motorcycles, go-carts,
hovercraft, snowmobiles converted to use with wheels, all-terrain vehicles or
dune buggies, but not including motor vehicles designed for commercial,
industrial or agricultural use, motorized foot scooters as defined by Minnesota
Statutes Section 169.011, subdivision 46, electric-assisted bicycles as defined
by Minnesota Statutes Section 169.011, subdivision 27, electric personal
assistive mobility devices as defined by Minnesota Statutes Section 169.011,
subdivision 26, and snowmobiles propelled by tracks.
§ 6-5-2: OPERATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to operate a recreational motor vehicle within the
City:
      1.   Upon private property without the written permission of the owner or
person entitled to possession thereof. This restriction shall not apply to
motor vehicles registered under Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 168 when operated
by a driver licensed under Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 171 upon private
driveways, roadways, lanes, ways, or parking lots where the operation of
licensed motor vehicles is not expressly prohibited by posted notice.
      2.   Upon any school grounds, public park, playground, recreational area,
golf course, or other public property, except at such times and places as the
proper authorities may authorize or designate and subject to conditions imposed
by such authorities. No operation whatsoever shall be allowed on the foregoing
areas or places described in this subsection when the recreational motor
vehicle does not bear a license plate evidencing registration as required under
Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 168.
      3.   Upon any public sidewalk, walkway, or boulevard.
      4.   Upon the right of way of any public street or highway unless:
         a.   The recreational motor vehicle is licensed under Minnesota
Statutes, Chapter 168; and
         b.   The operator is licensed under Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 171;
and
         c.   The vehicle is operated upon the improved portion of the right of
way.
   B.   Exceptions: Recreational motor vehicles or other electric or motorized
vehicles may be operated by a City employee or contractor in the performance of
official duties.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to operate a motorized foot scooter within the
City in locations identified in City Code 6-5-2.A.2 and 3. These devices they
may be operated upon any public right of way of any street or highway, in
accordance with state law.
   D.   Electric personal assistive mobility devices are allowed on any public
right of way or public property and must be operated in accordance with
Minnesota Statutes Section 169.212.
§ 6-5-3: STORAGE AND PARKING OF RECREATIONAL AND OTHER ELECTRIC OR MOTORIZED
VEHICLES:
   A.   No person shall park a recreational motor vehicle, electric foot
scooter or electric-assisted bicycle against any window or parking meter or on
the main traveled portion of the sidewalk, nor in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard to pedestrians, traffic, or property.
   B.   No recreational motor vehicle, electric foot scooter or electric-
assisted bicycle shall be left unattended on the streets, sidewalks, alleys, or
other public grounds.
   C.   A violation of this section is a public nuisance and subject to the
penalty provided in Title 4 Chapter 1 of this Code.
§ 6-5-4: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   Except for licensed vehicles operated upon streets or highways by licensed
operators, no recreational motor vehicle shall be operated between the hours of
nine o’clock (9:00) P.M. and eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. upon any public
property, or within one-fourth (¼) mile of any platted area.
§ 6-5-5: NOISE LIMITS:
   Recreational motor vehicles shall meet the noise limits established for
motorcycles by Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 169.
§ 6-5-6: HELMETS:
   Persons operating a recreational motor vehicle within the City or riding
upon such recreational motor vehicle shall wear a helmet that complies with
standards established by the Minnesota Commissioner of Public Safety.
TITLE 7: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
7-1-1: Street Names and Building Numbers
7-1-2: Prohibited Snow and Ice Deposits
7-1-3: Sidewalks and Trails
§ 7-1-1: STREET NAMES AND BUILDING NUMBERS:
   A.   System Adopted: A uniform system of naming streets and numbering
properties and principal buildings, as shown in the manual of procedures
identified by the title uniform street and property numbering system, which is
filed in the City office and the County courthouse, is hereby adopted for use
in the City. This map and all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted and
made a part of this Section.
   B.   Compliance with System
      1.   Building Numbers: All properties or parcels of land within the City
shall be as designated by the uniform property numbering system.
      2.   Street Names: The names of all streets in the City shall be as
designated by the uniform street naming system.
   C.   Location of Numbers on Buildings: Each principal building shall bear
the number assigned to the frontage on which the front entrance is located. In
the event a principal building is occupied by more than one (1) business or
family dwelling unit, each separate front entrance of such building shall bear
a separate number.
   D.   Specifications of Numerals: Numerals indicating the official numbers
for each principal building or each front entrance to such building shall be at
least four inches (4") in height and be reflectorized and shall be posted in a
manner so as to be visible from the street on which the property is located. In
zoning districts AG-1, AG-2, R-1 and R-2, the official numbers, at least two
inches (2") in height, shall be displayed on the mailbox.
   E.   Administration of System:
      1.   Building Numbers:
      2.   The Department of Administration shall assign to any property owner
in the City, upon request, a number for each principal building or separate
front entrance to such building.
§ 7-1-2: PROHIBITED SNOW AND ICE DEPOSITS:
   A.   Unless approved by the City’s Director of Public Works, it shall be
unlawful to deposit snow removed from private property onto public property,
including boulevard areas; except that snow removed from boulevard areas of
driveways and sidewalks may be placed on adjacent boulevard areas.
   B.   Snow removed from private property may not be deposited upon other
private property without the consent of the owner thereof.
   C.   Removal operations shall in no manner interfere with the use of public
streets, nor shall snow be accumulated or deposited by motor-driven equipment
in such a manner as to interfere with visibility at intersections or curves of
any public street within the City.
§ 7-1-3: SIDEWALKS AND TRAILS:
   A.   Classification: Sidewalks shall be classified according to pedestrian
use and location in the following categories:
      1.   Safety sidewalk and trail.
      2.   Low use sidewalk and trail.
   B.   Snow Removal by City:
      1.   Safety Sidewalks and Trails: Safety sidewalks and trails shall be
cleared by the City within forty-eight (48) hours after the snow has ceased to
fall, if possible.
      2.   Low Use Sidewalks and Trails: Low use sidewalks and trails shall not
be plowed by the City and are the responsibility of the adjacent property
owner.
CHAPTER 2: STREET, DRIVEWAY AND PARKING LOT CONSTRUCTION
Section
7-2-1: Permit Requirements
7-2-2: Curb Cuts
7-2-3: Driveways and Parking Lots; Procedures and Specifications
7-2-4: Table of Driveway Dimensions
7-2-5: Additional Construction Requirements for Certain Driveways
§ 7-2-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit and Compliance Required: No person shall make any curb cut or
install any driveway or parking lot without first obtaining a building permit
from the City. The applicant shall provide the required information and shall,
in addition, conform with the regulations of this Chapter.
   B.   Application for Permit: Any person desiring a permit shall present a
written application to the City, describing the improvements to be made and, if
specified by the Public Works Director, plans which indicate that the
requirements of this Chapter will be met.
   C.   Revocation of Permit: Any permit issued may be revoked by the City,
upon request by the City Engineer, at any time after its issuance for failure
to comply with the conditions of the permit.
   D.   Appeals: Appeals shall be conducted pursuant to City Code Section
1-3-4.
§ 7-2-2: CURB CUTS:
   A.   There shall only be one (1) curb cut for each residential lot having
curb and gutter. Approval of a new or second curb cut shall require that the
original curb cut be closed, and the driveway removed, and the curb cut
repaired at the applicant’s expense.
   B.   No curb cuts shall be made which will impair proper street drainage or
cause ingress and egress from properties to constitute a hazard to traffic if
so determined by the Public Works Director.
   C.   The performance of the work and quality of materials shall be in
accordance with the latest revision of the City Standard Specifications and the
State Department of Highways Standard Specifications for Highway Construction.
   D.   The existing curb shall be removed in complete whole sections. No
cutting, sawing or breaking of the existing curb shall be allowed, except for
blacktop curbs. Expansion joints between the existing curb and the new entrance
shall be made at the existing joints in the in-place curb.
   E.   Any portion of the existing pavement structure disturbed during the
curb cut work shall be repaired with similar materials of equal or greater
structural capacity. Repair limits shall be defined by right angle saw cuts so
oriented to provide the least noticeable surface patch.
   F.   On existing streets, improved with curb and gutter, the period between
removing the in-place curb and constructing the new entrance shall not exceed
seventy-two (72) hours.
   G.   The permit fee for a curb cut shall be set by City Council resolution.
The fee shall be waived if application is made in connection with the issuance
of a building permit for new construction.
§ 7-2-3: DRIVEWAYS AND PARKING LOTS; PROCEDURES AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   The following procedures and specifications shall be required for all
driveway construction from streets to private garages, and for all parking lot
construction in areas served by streets with curb and gutter. Developments in
rural areas where storm sewer is not installed may utilize rural cross section
roads, and driveways may be of crushed rock, gravel, or other durable
materials:
   A.   Procedures:
      1.   The driveway or parking lot shall be excavated to remove all organic
or other unstable soils from the area to be surfaced.
      2.   The area to be surfaced shall be graded and compacted to the
elevation that will permit the placement of the full pavement section.
      3.   The performance of the work and the quality of materials shall be in
accordance with the latest revision of the City Standard Specifications and the
State Department of Highways Standard Specifications for Highway Construction.
      4.   The Public Works Director, or designee, shall be granted access to
the improvement area during all phases of construction pursuant to City Code
Section
1-3-1. The contractor or owner shall arrange for inspections of the grading
work, the aggregate base placement, and the bituminous course placement with
the Public Works Director prior to proceeding with the subsequent work phase.
Any and all stability, compaction, gradation or other material or placement
tests that the Public Works Director may request shall be provided by the
contractor or owner through a testing company acceptable to the City.
   B.   Specifications:
      1.   Driveways and parking lots shall be constructed so as to provide
drainage from the garage to the street or storm sewer system unless an
alternative method is approved by the Public Works Director.
      2.   Minimum pavement sections for asphalt driveways and parking lots
shall be:
         a.   Driveways for residential buildings with four (4) units or less
per building:
            (1)   2360 bituminous wearing course - two inches (2").
            (2)   Compacted class 5 aggregate base - not less than four inches
(4") compacted.
         b.   Parking lots and driveways for residential buildings with more
than four (4) units per building, and commercial, industrial, and institutional
areas:
            (1)   2360 bituminous wearing course - two inches (2") compacted.
            (2)   2360 bituminous non-wearing course - two inches (2")
compacted class 5 aggregate base - six inches (6") compacted unless alternates
are approved in writing by the City. In all cases, alternate pavement sections
shall be considered only if sufficient data to justify another pavement design,
based on the current Minnesota Transportation Department design procedure for
flexible pavement, is submitted as part of a formal alternate request. If,
based on the plan that is presented, the Public Works Director determines that
the proposed driveway or parking lot construction is not deemed adequate due to
traffic volumes or types of traffic, additional construction materials may be
required by the City based on Minnesota Transportation Department design
criteria.
               (i.)   Minimum pavement requirements for concrete driveways
shall be:
                  (a)   Gravel base - three inches (3") compacted.
                  (b)   Slab - four inches (4").
                  (c)   Reinforcement - 6 x 6 no. 10 mesh.
      3.   Minimum requirements for gravel driveways shall be at least six
inches (6") (compacted) of class 5 gravel meeting state transportation
department specification 2118.
   C.   Permit Fee: The permit fee for driveways and parking lots shall be in
such amount as provided by ordinance of the City Council from time to time.
§ 7-2-4: TABLE OF DRIVEWAY DIMENSIONS:
   All driveways constructed in the City shall conform to the dimensions set
forth in the following table:
DRIVEWAY DIMENSIONS
Driveway Dimensions Residential Urban Rural Commercial - Industrial Urban Rural
DRIVEWAY DIMENSIONS
Driveway Dimensions  Residential Urban Commercial - Industrial Urban Rural
                     Rural
Driveway angle (Y)   60 - 90           60 - 90 60      90      60      90
Minimum driveway     12'               12'     26'     32'     26'     32'
width (W)
Recommended driveway 16'               16'     26'     32'     26'     32'
width (W)
Maximum driveway     28'               28'     *       *       *       *
width (W)
Radius of curvature  15' max           5' min  5' min  5' min  10' min 10' min
(R1)                                   15' max 30' max 30' max 40' max 40' max
Radius of curvature  15' max           5' min  5' min  5' min  5' min  10' min
(R2)                                   15' max 15' max 15' max 15' max 40' max
Minimum edge                                 5'      5'      10'     10'
clearance (E)
Minimum distance
between double-      20'               30'     20'     20'     30'     30'
driveways (D)
Minimum corner
clearance from major 30'               60'     75'     75'     75'     75'
street (C)
Minimum corner
clearance from minor 20'               60'     50'     50'     60'     60'
street (C)
 
§ 7-2-5: ADDITIONAL CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN DRIVEWAYS:
   Where a proposed driveway is to be constructed so that it opens onto any
street designated as a State, County or Federal trunk highway, all additional
specifications of the appropriate highway departments will apply, and the
required permits shall be obtained from the appropriate department.
CHAPTER 3: PARKS
Section
7-3-1: Purpose
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Activities Requiring Permit
7-3-4: Prohibited Acts
7-3-5: Park Permits, Runs, Walks, Races and Parades
§ 7-3-1: PURPOSE:
   The purpose of this Chapter is to:
   A.   Protect the safety, convenience, comfort, and general welfare of those
using the City parks;
   B.   Promote the use of the parks for the benefit of the general public; and
   C.   Preserve and maintain park facilities and regulate use of parks to
minimize unnecessary maintenance to parks caused by uses which damage park
facilities.
§ 7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Any beverage containing more than one-half of one
percent (0.5%) alcohol by volume.
   AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any contrivance, device, gadget, machine, or structure
designed to test the skill or strength of the user or to provide the user with
any sort of ride, lift, swing or fall experience, including, but not limited
to, any ball throwing contest device, pinball type device, electronic video,
animal ride device, dunk tank, ball and hammer device, trampoline device and
the like.
   MOTORIZED RECREATION VEHICLE: Any motorized self-propelled, off the road or
all-terrain vehicle, including, but not limited to, any snowmobile, minibike,
amphibious vehicle, motorcycle, go-cart, trail bike, dune buggy or all-terrain
cycle.
   NATURAL RESOURCES: All flora and fauna within parks and physical factors
upon which they depend, including air, water, soil, and minerals.
   PARK: Any public land or water area, and all facilities thereon, under the
jurisdiction, control, or ownership of the City, including, but not limited to,
parks, playgrounds, recreation areas, or open spaces.
   WATERCRAFT: Any contrivance used or designated for navigation on water,
other than: (a) a duck boat during the duck hunting season, or (b) a seaplane.
§ 7-3-3: ACTIVITIES REQUIRING PERMIT:
   No person shall engage in the following activities, except pursuant to a
permit for the activity:
   A.   Cut or remove firewood on park property.
   B.   Possess, use, or display fireworks or other pyrotechnics.
   C.   Solicit, sell, or otherwise peddle goods, wares, merchandise, services,
liquids, or edibles.
   D.   Erect any sign, advertisement, notice, poster, or display.
   E.   Use park property for starting or landing of aircraft, hot air
balloons, parachutes, or hang gliders.
   F.   Occupy designated camping sites on park property for purposes of
overnight use.
   G.   Ride, lead or allow a horse within a park.
   H.   Operate motorized vehicles and equipment on park and open space
property, except in parking lots or designated areas.
   I.   Bring in, set up, construct, manage or operate any amusement device.
   J.   Dig trenches, holes, or other excavations.
   K.   Introduce natural resources, such as trees and shrubs, within park
property.
   L.   Events, runs, walks, races or parades.
§ 7-3-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   The following acts are prohibited:
   A.   Garbage and Refuse: Deposit, scatter, drop or abandon in a park,
bottles, cans, broken glass, grass clippings, tree branches, hot coals, ashes,
sewage, pet waste or other material, except in receptacles provided for such
purposes.
   B.   Fires:
      1.   Start a fire in a park, except in designated areas, other than in
fire rings, portable stoves or grills.
      2.   Leave a fire unattended or fail to fully extinguish a fire.
      3.   Scatter or leave unattended lighted matches, burning tobacco, paper
or other combustible material.
   C.   Vehicles:
      1.   Operate a bicycle or other motorized recreation vehicle, except as
posted.
      2.   Operate a snowmobile except on designated trails.
      3.   Operate any vehicle in excess of twenty-five (25) miles per hour or
other posted speed limits.
      4.   Park off of paved surfaces or in non-designated parking areas.
   D.   Pets and Animals:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to permit a domestic animal to run at large,
whether or not the owner is present, in City parks. Dogs or cats must be
continuously under restraint on a leash and accompanied by a person reasonably
able and effectively restraining the dog or cat. Unleashing of dogs is allowed
within the boundaries of the public off leash dog park and is subject to the
posted rules of the park which includes the owner having verbal or physical
command over the dog.
      2.   Permit a pet under one’s control to disturb, harass or interfere
with any park visitor or park visitor’s personal property.
      3.   Remove, release, or abandon any animal within a park without a
permit.
      4.   No owner or custodian of any animal shall cause or allow such animal
to soil, defile or defecate on any public property or upon any street,
sidewalk, public way, play area unless such owner immediately removes and
disposes of all feces deposited by such animal in a sanitary manner.
      5.   It is unlawful for any person owning, keeping or harboring an animal
to cause or permit said animal to be on any public property, without having in
their immediate possession a device for the removal of feces and depository for
the transmission of excrement to a proper receptacle.
   E.   Liquor:
      1.   Possess or consume any alcoholic beverages in glass containers in
any park or park parking lot or open space area.
      2.   Possess or consume any type of alcoholic beverage at the Cottage
Grove Ice Arena.
   F.   Use for Storage; Construction of Sheds, Fences, Etc.: Park/store
firewood, construction materials, boats, campers, snowmobiles, trailers, and
vehicles on park property; construct compost bins, storage sheds, play
structures, fences, underground electrically controlled cable, retaining walls,
or other personal property on park property. Such property shall be removed by
the City, or by others under contract with the City, on ten (10) days’ written
notice to the owner, if ascertainable. All costs incurred for removal and
storage shall be at the property owner’s expense.
   G.   Gardens: Create and maintain gardens.
   H.   Tampering with, Damage to Property: Intentionally remove, alter,
injure, or destroy any park property, including natural resources.
   I.   Trespassing: Enter any building, installation, or area under
construction or locked or closed to public use; or enter or be upon any
building, installation, or area during times when the park property is not open
to the public.
   J.   Smoking and Vaping of Tobacco Products: It shall be unlawful to
vaporize or smoke tobacco products in a public park. For purposes of this
section, River Oaks Golf Course shall not be considered a public park. A
violation of this provision shall be a petty misdemeanor with a fine of $100.
   K.   Golfing: Putt, drive or in any other manner play or practice golf
except at established facilities. (amd. Ord. 1077, 10-18-2023)
§ 7-3-5: PARK PERMITS, RUNS, WALKS, RACES AND PARADES:
   A.   Findings of Fact; Purpose: This Section governs the time, place, and
manner of certain events on public property when an event’s impact upon the
health, fire, law enforcement, transportation or other services exceeds those
regularly provided to that property. This Section is enacted in order to
promote the health, safety and welfare of all residents and visitors of the
City by ensuring that events do not create disturbances, become nuisances,
menace, or threaten life, health and property, disrupt traffic or threaten or
damage public property. It is not the intent of the City Council to regulate in
any manner the content of speech or infringe upon the right to assemble, except
for regulating the time, place and manner of speech and assembly and this
Section should not be interpreted or construed otherwise.
   B.   Definitions: The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this
Section shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR: The Cottage Grove City Administrator or designee.
   SPECIAL SERVICES: The exclusive allocation of City resources, including, but
not limited to, City personnel, equipment, rights of way, property, or
facilities for use in conjunction with a specific event or activity that are
deemed necessary by City staff in order to maintain or protect the public
health, safety or welfare. Special services shall include, but not be limited
to, any of the following: street closures; requiring police officers to stop or
reroute traffic; special police protection, security or monitoring; stationing
emergency vehicles at or in the immediate vicinity of the event; exclusive use
of City streets as a staging area or for event parking; additional street
cleaning and garbage removal services; special signage, such as temporary no
parking signs; the use of any City building, equipment or other property for
any purpose other than the normal daily operations of the City; or the City
otherwise providing exclusive services.
   C.   Permit:
      1.   Permit Required: Any person or organization desiring to hold an
event within any City park must first obtain a permit from the Parks and
Recreation Department in addition to any other permits required for the event
by state law or City Code Section
7-3-3.
      2.   Exceptions: A permit is not required for:
         a.   Golf tournaments.
         b.   The use of traditional public forums as alternative channels of
communication by the public, provided that such use is for the free exercise of
constitutionally protected activities and does not disrupt or interfere with
traffic on public streets or the use of public places by other members of the
public.
         c.   Any event for which the City is a sponsor.
         d.   Runs, walks, races or parades using any part of the public right
of way, however, if these types of events are expected to attract more than
three hundred (300) people, the event organizer must notify the Director of
Public Safety at least sixty (60) days in advance and comply with all
conditions imposed by the Public Safety Department.
   D.   Permit Application:
      1.   Form: An application for a park permit must be completed on a form
provided by the Parks and Recreation Department and must contain a statement
made upon oath or affirmation that the statements contained therein are true
and correct to the best knowledge of the applicant.
      2.   Permit Fee: An applicant must pay a nonrefundable permit fee in the
amount established by the City Council pursuant to the City’s fee ordinance.
   E.   Permit Review: Certain permit applications may be distributed to the
Public Safety Department and to any other departments that may require special
services or other conditions for the event. Each such department will review
the application and determine the amount of special services that are
necessary, if any, and shall forward a cost estimate for the special services
associated with their department to the Parks and Recreation Department who
shall apply the appropriate fees to the permit.
   F.   Permit Denial:
      1.   Denial of Application: The Parks and Recreation Director may deny an
application for a permit if it determines from a consideration of the
application or other pertinent information, that:
         a.   The information contained in the application or supplemental
information requested from the applicant is false or nonexistent in any
material detail.
         b.   The applicant fails to supplement the application after having
been notified by the City of additional information or documents needed.
         c.   The applicant fails to agree to abide or comply with all of the
conditions and terms of the permit, including payment of all costs and
expenses.
         d.   The time, hours, location, or size of the event will
unnecessarily disrupt or interfere with the movement of traffic, would
interfere with access to the fire station or fire hydrants, or would interfere
with access to businesses or residences in the immediate vicinity of the event
and there are not sufficient City resources available to mitigate the
disruption at the time of the event.
         e.   The event is of the size or nature that it is unduly burdensome
to the Public Safety Department or other City resources or City infrastructure.
         f.   The proposed date and time of the event conflicts with a
previously scheduled event and there are not available at the time of the
proposed event sufficient City resources to provide services for both events
without substantially or unnecessarily interfering with police, fire,
ambulance, water, public works, or other services to the City as a whole.
         g.   The location of the event will substantially interfere with any
construction or maintenance work scheduled to take place upon or along public
property or right of way.
         h.   The event would substantially or unnecessarily interfere with
police, fire, ambulance, water, public works, or other services to the City as
a whole and there are not available at the time of the proposed event
sufficient City resources to mitigate the disruption.
         i.   The event would likely endanger the public safety or health.
         j.   The event would likely create or constitute a public nuisance.
         k.   The event would be likely to cause significant damage to public
property or facilities.
         l.   The event would engage in or encourage participants to engage in
disorderly conduct activity, disturbances, or illegal acts.
         m.   The applicant, responsible party, or the person on whose behalf
the application is submitted has on prior occasions made material
misrepresentations regarding the nature of an event in the City, or has
violated the terms of a prior permit.
   G.   Special Services Fees:
      1.   Special Services Fee: If any special services are required for the
event, the applicant will be required to pay for the special services. The
special services fee shall be determined by the Parks and Recreation Department
and will be based upon the actual cost of the special services. The special
services fee must be paid by the applicant at least five (5) days before the
event. If additional special services are required during the event that
exceeds the fees collected, the applicant will be invoiced for the additional
fees. No new permits will be issued until all previous fees have been paid,
with interest, if applicable.
      2.   Special Services Rates: The rates charged for the use of City
personnel, equipment, facilities and rights of way shall be set by the City
Council pursuant to the City’s fee ordinance.
   H.   Revocation: Any permit issued pursuant to this Section may be summarily
revoked by a law enforcement officer at any time when, by reason of disaster,
public calamity, riot or other emergency, the law enforcement officer
determines that the safety of the public or property requires such revocation.
The Parks and Recreation Director, or their designee, may also summarily revoke
any permit issued pursuant to this Section if they find that the permit has
been issued based on false information or when the permittee exceeds the scope
of the permit or violates any term or condition of the permit or this Section.
CHAPTER 4: PLANTING TREES ON BOULEVARD
Section
7-4-1: Purpose
7-4-2: Definitions
7-4-3: Permitted Trees
7-4-4: Size and Location of Permitted Trees
7-4-5: Tree Planting and Care; Permit Provisions
7-4-6: Removal or Damage of Trees by Property Owner
7-4-7: Inspections; Nuisance Provisions
§ 7-4-1: PURPOSE:
   The City recognizes the intrinsic, aesthetic, and material value that trees
bring to our community. Some of these benefits include:
   A.   Combating climate change.
   B.   Cleaning the air.
   C.   Providing oxygen.
   D.   Energy conservation and cooling.
   E.   The prevention of water pollution and soil conservation.
   F.   Muffling sound and creation of visual barriers.
   G.   Providing a canopy and habitat for wildlife.
   H.   Increased property values.
   I.   Improvement of business viability and economic growth.
   As an ongoing process, the City maintains our forest catalog through various
care and upkeep initiatives including regular trimming, abatement of diseased,
damaged, and/or perished trees and installation and replacement of those trees
deemed necessary at no cost to the associated property owner. It is the purpose
of this Chapter to protect and promote the public health, safety, and general
welfare by allowing property owners to plant and maintain the boulevard areas
adjoining their property in a manner that enhances and improves the aesthetic
appearance of City streets, avenues, and alleys, as well as prevent and abate
hazardous and nuisance conditions within the City, while preventing the
unauthorized removal or damage to the City’s trees.
§ 7-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   BOULEVARD: The public right-of-way lying between the property line and
sidewalk, and between the sidewalk and the roadway, or where no sidewalk
exists, between the property line and the roadway.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS: The annual, biennial, and perennial plants that are deemed by
the Minnesota Commissioner of Agriculture to be injurious to public health,
environment, public roads, crops, livestock, and other property.
   PLANTINGS: Trees, flowers, grass, and other plants.
   PUBLIC PLACES: Areas including, but not limited to public parks, trail
systems, City-owned property, wetlands, drainage beds, and all public rights-
of-way or easements along any boulevard or street.
§ 7-4-3: PERMITTED TREES:
   A.   Master Tree List: A list of approved trees that may be planted on the
boulevard portion of a public right-of-way is on file in the Office of the
Public Works Director.
   B.   Revisions To List: Revisions or changes in such master tree list may be
made from time to time by the Public Works Director.
   C.   Compliance With List; Exceptions: All trees hereinafter planted in, or
which may overhang the public streets of the City must be on the master tree
list unless a written permit from the Public Works Director is obtained in
advance.
§ 7-4-4: SIZE AND LOCATION OF PERMITTED TREES:
   All trees planted must be at least one inch (1") in diameter at six inches
(6") above the ground. Trees must be cultivated nursery stock with straight
trunks not less than six feet (6') high. No trees shall be placed so as to
cause a traffic hazard. Specific measurement regulations are as follows.
   A.   Spacing: Required spacing guidelines will be provided by the Public
Works Director on the approved list of trees.
   B.   Curb Returns and Intersections: Trees must not be planted closer than
thirty feet (30') from future or existing curb returns at intersections.
   C.   Driveways: Trees must be planted at least five feet (5') from
driveways.
   D.   Boulevards: Except where special permit is obtained from the Public
Works Director, no tree may be planted on any boulevard where the distance
between the nearest edge of the sidewalk and curb is less than three feet (3').
   E.   Sidewalks and Curbs: Trees must be a minimum of five feet (5') from the
nearest public street pavement, curb, sidewalk, or trail. All trees must be
planted equally distanced from the nearest edge of the proposed or existing
sidewalk and curb, except when the Public Works Director may direct otherwise.
   F.   Assistance: The Public Works Director or their designee will assist in
staking out the location of the tree planting.
§ 7-4-5: TREE PLANTING AND CARE; PERMIT PROVISIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person, other than the Public Works Director or
their designee or deputy, shall cut, trim, prune, spray, brace, plant, move,
remove, or replace any tree on any public street, nor cause the same to be done
without a written permit from the Public Works Director.
   B.   Public Utilities: Any person doing business as a public utility shall
be given a permit from the Public Works Director, valid for one (1) year from
the date of issuance, allowing tree trimming, bracing, removal or such other
acts with respect to trees growing adjacent to the public streets, or which
grow upon private property to the extent that they encroach upon such public
streets, as may be necessary to comply with the safety regulations and as may
be necessary to maintain the safe operation of its business.
§ 7-4-6: REMOVAL OR DAMAGE OF TREES BY PROPERTY OWNER:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to willfully cut down, deface, break,
injure, chemically damage, or pierce with nails or other objects, any tree
located, standing, or growing upon any public place within the City, without
first having obtained written permission from the Public Works Director.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to place or construct any material
impervious to air and water around any street/boulevard tree so as to impede
the free access of air and water to the roots.
   C.   It is unlawful to place any excess soil, building materials, debris,
equipment, or pour any deleterious material, around any street/boulevard tree,
without first having obtained written permission from the Public Works
Director.
   D.   The owner of property abutting a boulevard may request the removal of a
boulevard tree from in front of the owner’s property. If deemed necessary by
the Public Works Director, the tree will be removed by the City at no cost to
the property owner.
§ 7-4-7: INSPECTIONS; NUISANCE PROVISIONS:
   The Public Works Director may inspect any tree adjacent to or overhanging
any public street in the City to determine whether the same or any portion
thereof is in such a condition as to constitute a hazard or impediment to the
progress or vision of anyone traveling upon such public street, and may declare
the tree a nuisance under City Code Section
4-1-1.B.15. If not removed by the property owner, the City may abate the
nuisance pursuant to City Code Section
4-1-6.
CHAPTER 5: BOATING AND WATER USE
Section
7-5-1: Purpose, Intent and Application
7-5-2: State Regulations Adopted; Violations
7-5-3: Definitions
7-5-4: Use Regulations and Limitations
7-5-5: Exemptions
7-5-6: Enforcement
§ 7-5-1: PURPOSE, INTENT AND APPLICATION:
   As authorized by Minnesota Statutes Sections 86B.201, 86B.205, and 459.20,
this Chapter is enacted for the purpose and with the intent to control and
regulate the use of waters of Moore Lake and Grey Cloud Slough within the City,
said bodies of water being located partially within the boundaries of Grey
Cloud Island Township and partially within the City of Cottage Grove, to
promote its fullest use and enjoyment by the public in general, and the
citizens of Grey Cloud Island Township and the City of Cottage Grove in
particular; to ensure safety for the persons and property in connection with
the use of said waters; to harmonize and integrate the varying uses of said
waters; and to promote the general health, safety and welfare of the citizens
of Grey Cloud Island Township and the City of Cottage Grove.
§ 7-5-2: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED; VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Adoption of State Regulations: The Minnesota Waters and Watercraft
Safety Laws, Minnesota Statutes Section 86B.001 et seq. by the State Department
of Natural Resources, and Minnesota Rules Parts 6110.0100 through 6110.2300,
incorporated by reference, and made part hereof as if fully set forth in their
entirety. At least three (3) copies of said Minnesota Waters and Watercraft
Safety Laws and Boat and Water Safety Rules and Regulations so adopted shall be
marked as official copies and filed in the office of the City Clerk, City of
Cottage Grove and Grey Cloud Island Township along with this Chapter.
   B.   Violations: Any person violating the Minnesota Waters and Watercraft
Safety Laws and the Boat and Water Safety Rules and Regulations promulgated by
the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources, adopted, and incorporated herein
by reference, shall be subject to the penalties and punishment as provided in
City Code Section
1-3-2.
§ 7-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   GREY CLOUD SLOUGH: That body of water as is delineated and set forth on the
official map of Grey Cloud Island Township as Grey Cloud Slough, copies of
which are available from the Cottage Grove City Clerk and at least three (3)
copies of which are marked as official copies and are filed of record in the
office of the Cottage Grove City Clerk along with this Chapter.
   MOORE LAKE: That body of water as is delineated and set forth on the
official map of Grey Cloud Island Township as Moore Lake or Mooer Lake, copies
of which are available from the Cottage Grove City Clerk and at least three (3)
copies of which are marked as official copies and are filed of record in the
office of the Cottage Grove City Clerk along with this Chapter.
   MOTORBOAT: Any watercraft propelled in any manner by machinery including
watercraft temporarily equipped with detachable motors.
   SLOW-NO-WAKE SPEED: The slowest possible speed necessary to maintain
steerage but not greater than five (5) miles per hour.
§ 7-5-4: USE REGULATIONS AND LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Slow-No-Wake Zones: On the surface of Moore Lake no motorboat shall be
operated at greater than a slow-no-wake zone speed within fifty feet (50') of
the shoreline. No watercraft towing a person on water skis, aqua plane or
similar device shall be operated at any time in a slow-no-wake zone; provided,
however, that any watercraft launching or landing a person on water skis, aqua
plane, or similar device by the most direct route to open water or shore shall
be exempt from this Section.
   B.   Anchoring on Private Property: No person shall anchor or beach any
watercraft on or enter upon any property not owned by that individual unless
the individual has written permission from the owner or legal occupant of such
property in their possession or unless such person is in the immediate presence
of and has the permission and consent of the owner or legal occupant of such
property.
   C.   Docks: Except in established marinas, or as may be authorized by permit
from the Town Board for waterways within Grey Cloud Island Township or the
Cottage Grove City Council for waterways within the City of Cottage Grove, no
person shall construct or maintain any dock or structure which protrudes more
than thirty-five feet (35') from the shoreline or more that twenty-five percent
(25%) of the width of the channel (whichever is less), at the point such dock
exists, or is constructed.
§ 7-5-5: EXEMPTIONS:
   All authorized resource management, police, fire and ambulance emergency and
enforcement personnel, while acting in the performance of their assigned
duties, are exempt from the restrictions of this Chapter.
§ 7-5-6: ENFORCEMENT:
   Enforcement Officials: The enforcement of this Chapter shall be the primary
responsibility of the Washington County Sheriff’s Department. Other licensed
peace officers, including the Cottage Grove Police Division and the
conservation officers of the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources are also
authorized to enforce this Chapter.
CHAPTER 6: MANAGEMENT OF UTILITIES
Section
7-6-1: Findings, Purpose, and Intent
7-6-2: Election to Manage the Public Rights-of-Way
7-6-3: Definitions
7-6-4: Administration
7-6-5: Utility Coordination Committee
7-6-6: Registration and Right-of-Way Occupancy
7-6-7: Registration Information
7-6-8: Reporting Obligations
7-6-9: Permit Requirement
7-6-10: Permit Applications
7-6-11: Issuance of Permit; Conditions
7-6-12: Exemptions from Small Wireless Facility Permits
7-6-13: Permit Fees
7-6-14: Right-of-Way Patching and Restoration
7-6-15: Joint Applications
7-6-16: Supplementary Applications
7-6-17: Other Obligations
7-6-18: Denial of Permit
7-6-19: Installation Requirements
7-6-20: Inspection
7-6-21: Work Done Without a Permit
7-6-22: Supplementary Notification
7-6-23: Revocation of Permits
7-6-24: Mapping Data
7-6-25: Undergrounding
7-6-26: Relocation of Facilities
7-6-27: Interference by Other Facilities
7-6-28: Right-of-Way Vacation; Reservation of Right
7-6-29: Indemnification and Liability
7-6-30: Abandoned and Unusable Facilities
7-6-31: Appeal
7-6-32: Reservation of Regulatory and Police Powers
§ 7-6-1: FINDINGS, PURPOSE, AND INTENT:
   A.   To provide for the health, safety and welfare of its citizens, and to
ensure the integrity of its streets and the appropriate use of the rights-of-
way, the City strives to keep its rights-of-way in a state of good repair and
free from unnecessary encumbrances.
   B.   Accordingly, the City enacts this Chapter relating to right-of-way
permits and administration. This Chapter imposes reasonable regulation on the
placement and maintenance of facilities and equipment currently within the
City’s rights-of-way or to be placed therein at some future time. It is
intended to complement the regulatory roles of State and Federal agencies.
Under this Chapter, persons excavating and obstructing the rights-of-way will
bear financial responsibility for their work through the recovery of out-of-
pocket and projected costs from persons using the public rights-of-way.
   C.   This Chapter shall be interpreted consistently with Minnesota Statutes
Sections 237.16, 237.162, 237.163, 237.79, and 237.81 (the “Act”) and the other
laws governing applicable rights of the City and users of the right-of-way.
This Chapter shall also be interpreted consistent with Minnesota Rules Parts
7819.0050 - 7819.9950 where possible. To the extent that any provision of this
Chapter cannot be interpreted consistently with the Minnesota Rules, the
interpretation most consistent with the Act and other applicable statutory and
case law is intended.
§ 7-6-2: ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
   Pursuant to the authority granted to the City under State and Federal
statutory, administrative, and common law, the City elects pursuant to
Minnesota Statutes Section 237.163, subdivision 2(b), to manage rights-of-way
within its jurisdiction.
§ 7-6-3: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   ABANDONED FACILITY: A facility no longer in service or physically
disconnected from a portion of the operating facility, or from any other
facility, that is in use or still carries service. A facility is not abandoned
unless declared so by the right-of-way user.
   APPLICANT: Any person requesting permission to excavate or obstruct a right-
of-way.
   CITY: The City of Cottage Grove, Minnesota. For purposes of this Chapter,
CITY means its elected officials, officers, employees, and agents.
   COLLOCATE: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or replace a small
wireless facility on, under, within, or adjacent to an existing wireless
support structure that is owned privately or by the City.
   COMMISSION: The Minnesota Public Utilities Commission.
   CONGESTED RIGHT-OF-WAY: A crowded condition in the subsurface of the public
right-of-way that occurs when the maximum lateral spacing between existing
underground facilities does not allow for construction of new underground
facilities without using hand digging to expose the existing lateral facilities
in conformance with Minnesota Statutes Section 216D.04, subdivision 3, over a
continuous length in excess of five hundred feet (500').
   CONSTRUCTION PERFORMANCE BOND: Any of the following forms of security
provided at permittee’s option: individual project bond; cash deposit; security
of a form listed or approved under Minnesota Statutes Section 15.73,
subdivision 3; or letter of credit, in a form acceptable to the City; self-
insurance, in a form acceptable to the City; a blanket bond for projects within
the City, or other form of construction bond, for a time specified and in a
form acceptable to the City.
   DEGRADATION: A decrease in the useful life of the right-of-way caused by
excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct such right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
or disturbance did not occur.
   DEGRADATION COST: Subject to Minnesota Rules Part 7819.1100 means the cost
to achieve a level of restoration as determined by the City at the time the
permit is issued, not to exceed the maximum restoration shown in plates 1 to
13, set forth in Minnesota Rules Parts 7819.9900 to 7819.9950 and incorporated
in this Chapter by reference.
   DEGRADATION FEE: The estimated fee established at the time of permitting by
the City to recover costs associated with the decrease in the useful life of
the right-of-way caused by the excavation, and which equals the degradation
cost.
   DELAY PENALTY: The penalty imposed as a result of unreasonable delays in
right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration as established
by permit.
   DEPARTMENT: The Department of Public Works of the City.
   DEPARTMENT INSPECTOR: Any person authorized by the City to carry out
inspections related to the provisions of this Chapter.
   DIRECTOR: The Director of the Department of Public Works of the City or
designee.
   EMERGENCY: A condition that: (a) poses a danger to life or health, or of a
significant loss of property; or (b) requires immediate repair or replacement
of facilities in order to restore service to a customer.
   EQUIPMENT: Any tangible asset used to install, repair, or maintain
facilities in any right-of-way.
   EXCAVATE: To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or
penetrate any part of a right-of-way.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT: The permit which, pursuant to this Chapter, must be
obtained before a person may excavate in a right-of-way. An excavation permit
allows the holder to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such
permit.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT FEE: Money paid to the City by an applicant to cover the
costs as provided in Section
7-6-13 of this Chapter.
   FACILITY OR FACILITIES: Tangible asset in the public right-of-way required
to provide utility service. The term does not include facilities to the extent
the location and relocation of such facilities are preempted by Minnesota
Statutes Section 161.45, governing utility facility placement in State trunk
highways.
   5-YEAR CIP: Shows projects planned by the City for construction within the
next five (5) years.
   HIGH DENSITY CORRIDOR: A designated portion of the public right-of-way
within which telecommunications right-of-way users having multiple and
competing facilities may be required to build and install facilities in a
common conduit system or other common structure.
   HOLE: An excavation in the right-of-way, with the excavation having a length
less than the width of the pavement or adjacent pavement.
   LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE: A local person or persons, or designee of such person
or persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and to make decisions
for that registrant regarding all matters within the scope of this Chapter.
   MANAGEMENT COSTS: The actual costs the City incurs in managing its rights-
of-way, including such costs, if incurred, as those associated with registering
applicants; engineering, surveying, issuing, processing, and verifying right-
of-way or small wireless facility permit applications; preparatory construction
work, inspecting job sites and restoration projects; maintaining, supporting,
protecting, or moving user facilities during right- of-way work; determining
the adequacy of right-of-way restoration; restoring work inadequately performed
after providing notice and the opportunity to correct the work; and revoking
right-of-way or small wireless facility permits. Management costs do not
include payment by a telecommunications right-of-way user for the use of the
right-of-way, unreasonable fees of a third party contractor used by the City,
or the fees and cost of litigation relating to the interpretation of Minnesota
Statutes Section 237.162 or 237.163 or any ordinance enacted under those
sections, or the City fees and costs related to appeals taken pursuant to
Section
7-6-31 of this Chapter.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is no larger than
twenty-four inches (24") long, fifteen inches (15") wide, and twelve inches
(12") high, and whose exterior antenna, if any, is no longer than eleven inches
(11").
   OBSTRUCT: To place any tangible object in a right-of-way so as to hinder
free and open passage over that or any part of the right-of-way.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT: The permit which, pursuant to this Chapter, must be
obtained before a person may obstruct a right-of-way, allowing the holder to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of that right-of-way,
for the duration specified therein, including a blanket permit for a period of
time and for types of work specified by the Director, if deemed appropriate in
their discretion.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE: Money paid to the City by a permittee to cover the
costs as provided in Section
7-6-13 of this Chapter.
   PATCH OR PATCHING: A method of pavement replacement that is temporary in
nature. A patch consists of: (a) the compaction of the subbase and aggregate
base, and (b) the replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement.
   PAVEMENT: Any type of improved surface that is within the public right-of-
way and that is paved or otherwise constructed with bituminous, concrete,
aggregate, or gravel.
   PERMIT: Has the meaning given “right-of-way permit” in Minnesota Statutes
Section 237.162.
   PERMITTEE: Any person to whom a permit to excavate or obstruct a right-of-
way has been granted by the City under this Chapter.
   PERSON: An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of this State,
however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or foreign,
whether for profit or nonprofit, and whether natural, corporate, or political.
   PROBATION: The status of a person that has not complied with the conditions
of this Chapter.
   PROBATIONARY PERIOD: One (1) year from the date the permittee has been
notified in writing that it has been placed on probation.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY OR RIGHT-OF-WAY: Has the meaning given it in Minnesota
Statutes Section 237.162.
   REGISTRANT: Any person who: (a) has or seeks to have its equipment or
facilities located in any right-of-way, or (b) in any way occupies or uses, or
seeks to occupy or use, the right-of-way or place its facilities or equipment
in the right-of-way.
   RESTORATION COST: The amount of money paid to the City by a permittee to
achieve the level of restoration according to plates 1 to 13 of Minnesota Rules
Part 7819.1100, subpart 1, on file with the Director.
   RESTORE OR RESTORATION: The process by which an excavated right-of-way and
surrounding area, including pavement and foundation, is returned to the same
condition and life expectancy that existed before excavation.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT: Either the excavation permit or the obstruction permit,
or both, depending on the context, required by this Chapter.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY USER: A telecommunications right-of-way user as defined by
Minnesota Statutes Section 237.162; or a person owning or controlling a
facility in the right-of-way that is used or intended to be used for providing
utility service, and who has a right under law, franchise, or ordinance to use
the public right-of-way.
   SERVICE LATERAL: An underground facility that is used to transmit,
distribute, or furnish gas, electricity, communications, or water from a common
source to an end use customer. A service lateral is also an underground
facility that is used in the removal of wastewater from a customer’s premises.
   SERVICE OR UTILITY SERVICE: Means and includes: (a) services provided by a
public utility as defined in Minnesota Statutes Section 216B.02, subdivisions 4
and 6; (b) services of a telecommunications right-of-way user, including
transporting of voice or data information; (c) services of a cable
communications system as defined in Minnesota Statutes Section 238.02,
subdivision 3; (d) natural gas or electric energy or telecommunications
services provided by the City; (e) services provided by a cooperative electric
association organized under Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 308A; and (f) water,
sewer, steam, cooling or heating services.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A wireless facility that meets the following
qualifications:
   A.   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six (6)
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all its exposed elements could fit within an enclosure of no
more than six (6) cubic feet; and
   B.   All other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless
facility, provided such equipment is in aggregate no more than twenty-eight
(28) cubic feet in volume, not including electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, battery backup power systems, grounding
equipment, power transfer switches, cutoff switches, cable, conduit, vertical
cable runs for the connection of power and other services, and any equipment
concealed from public view or behind an existing structure or concealment; or
   C.   A micro wireless facility.
   SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION: An application made to excavate or obstruct more
of the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend, a permit that had already
been issued.
   TELECOMMUNICATION RIGHT-OF-WAY USER OR A RIGHT-OF-WAY USER: A person owning
or controlling a facility in the right-of-way or seeking to own or control a
facility in the right-of-way, that is used or is intended to be used for
providing wireless service or transporting telecommunication or other voice or
data information. For purposes of this Chapter, a cable communication system
defined and regulated under Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 238, and
telecommunication activities related to providing natural gas or electric
energy services, a public utility as defined in Minnesota Statutes Section
216B.02, a municipality, a municipal gas or power agency organized under
Minnesota Statutes, Chapters 453 and 453A, or a cooperative electric
association organized under Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 308A, are not
telecommunications right-of-way users for purposes of this Chapter, except to
the extent these entities are offering wireless services.
   TEMPORARY SURFACE: The compaction of subbase and aggregate base and
replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement only to the edges of the
excavation. It is temporary in nature except when the replacement is of
pavement included in the City’s two-year plan, in which case it is considered
full restoration.
   TRENCH: An excavation in the right-of-way, with the excavation having a
length equal to or greater than the width of the pavement or adjacent pavement.
   TWO (2) YEAR PROJECT PLAN: Shows projects adopted by the City for
construction within the next two (2) years.
   UTILITY POLE: A pole that is used in whole or in part to facilitate
telecommunications or electric service.
   WIRELESS FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables the provision
of wireless services between user equipment and a wireless service network,
including:
   A.   Equipment associated with wireless service;
   B.   A radio transceiver, antenna, coaxial or fiber- optic cable, regular
and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration;
   C.   A small wireless facility.
   WIRELESS SERVICE: Any service using licensed or unlicensed wireless
spectrum, including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or by means
of a mobile device that is provided using wireless facilities. Wireless service
does not include services regulated under Title VI of the Communications Act of
1934, as amended, including a cable service under United States Code, Title 47,
Section 522, Clause (6).
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A new or existing structure in a public right-
of-way designed to support or capable of supporting small wireless facilities,
as reasonably determined by the City.
   WIRELINE BACKHAUL FACILITY: A facility used to transport communications data
by wire from a wireless facility to a communications network.
§ 7-6-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   The Director is the principal City official responsible for the
administration of the rights-of-way, right-of-way permits, and small wireless
facility permits, and the ordinances related thereto. The Director may delegate
any or all of the duties hereunder.
§ 7-6-5: UTILITY COORDINATION COMMITTEE:
   The City may create an advisory Utility Coordination Committee.
Participation on the Committee is voluntary. It will be composed of any
registrants that wish to assist the City in obtaining information and by making
recommendations regarding use of the right-of-way, and to improve the process
of performing construction work therein. The City may determine the size of
such Committee and shall appoint members from a list of registrants that have
expressed a desire to assist the City.
§ 7-6-6: REGISTRATION AND RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Registration: Each person who occupies, uses, or seeks to occupy or
use, the right-of-way or place any equipment or facilities in or on the right-
of-way, including persons with installation and maintenance responsibilities by
lease, sublease or assignment, must register annually with the City.
Registration will consist of providing application information and paying a
registration fee.
   B.   Registration Prior to Work: No person may construct, install, repair,
remove, relocate, or perform any other work on, or use any facilities or any
part thereof in any right-of-way without first being registered with the City.
   C.   Mailbox and Tree in Right-Of-Way: Only one (1) mailbox per household
(meeting Cottage Grove’s standard detail plate) and one (1) deciduous tree (one
(1) in each right-of-way for a corner lot) are allowed on the right-of-way.
There must be one (1) support post for one (1) mailbox and two (2) support
posts for multiple mailboxes.
   D.   Other Items Placed in Right-of-Way: Any other items located in the
right-of-way are placed at the risk of the property owner. Items placed in the
right-of-way may be subject to damage due to routine maintenance (such as
snowplowing, utility repairs, etc.) by the City upon which no replacement or
compensation will be given. In addition, if items in the right-of-way pose a
safety hazard, they are subject to removal by the City or representative of the
City without any compensation or replacement. Examples of items not allowed in
the right-of-way without written permission from the City include, but are not
limited to: irrigation systems, rocks, landscaping, play equipment, fencing,
invisible fencing, retaining walls, large mailbox construction, lighting,
bollards and private walkways.
   E.   Compliance: Nothing herein relieves a person from complying with the
provisions of the Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 216D, Gopher One Call Law.
§ 7-6-7: REGISTRATION INFORMATION:
   A.   Information Required: The information provided to the City at the time
of registration shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Each registrant’s name, gopher one call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers.
      2.   The name, address, and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be accessible for consultation at all times. Current information
regarding how to contact the local representative in an emergency shall be
provided at the time of registration.
      3.   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         a.   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company authorized to do business in the State of
Minnesota, or a form of self-insurance acceptable to the City;
         b.   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the: (1) use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees and permittees, and (2) placement and use of
facilities and equipment in the right-of-way by the registrant, its officers,
agents, employees and permittees, including, but not limited to, protection
against any liability arising from completed operations, damage of underground
facilities and collapse of property;
         c.   Either naming the City as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all such coverages or otherwise providing evidence
satisfactory to the Director that the City is fully covered and will be
defended through registrant’s insurance for all actions included in Minnesota
Rules Part 7819.1250;
         d.   Requiring that the City be notified thirty (30) days in advance
of cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term;
         e.   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile liability
coverage, workers’ compensation and umbrella coverage established by the City
in amounts sufficient to protect the City and the public and to carry out the
purposes and policies of this Chapter.
      4.   The City may require a copy of the actual insurance policies if
necessary to ensure the Director that the policy provides adequate third-party
claim coverage and City indemnity and defense coverage for all actions included
in the indemnity required by Minnesota Rules Part 7819.1250.
      5.   Such evidence as the Director may require that the person is
authorized to do business in Minnesota.
   B.   Notice of Changes: The registrant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times by providing to the City information as to
changes within fifteen (15) days following the date on which the registrant has
knowledge of any change.
§ 7-6-8: REPORTING OBLIGATIONS:
   A.   Operations: Each registrant shall, at the time of registration and by
December 1 of each year, file a construction and major maintenance plan for
underground facilities with the City. Such plan shall be submitted using a
format designated by the City and shall contain the information determined by
the City to be necessary to facilitate the coordination and reduction in the
frequency of excavations and obstructions of rights-of-way.
   The plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following information:
      1.   The locations and the estimated beginning and ending dates of all
projects to be commenced during the next calendar year (in this section, a
“next-year project”); and
      2.   To the extent known, the tentative locations and estimated beginning
and ending dates for all projects contemplated for the five (5) years following
the next calendar year (in this section, a “five (5) year project”).
   The term “project” in this Section shall include both next-year projects and
five (5) year projects. By January 1 of each year the City will have available
for inspection in the City’s office a composite list of all projects of which
the City has been informed of the annual plans. All registrants are responsible
for keeping themselves informed of the current status of this list. Thereafter,
by February 1, each registrant may change any project in its list of next-year
projects and must notify the City and all other registrants of all such changes
in said list. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a registrant may at any time join
in a next year project of another registrant listed by the other registrant.
   B.   Additional Next Year Projects: Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City
will not deny an application for a right-of-way permit for failure to include a
project in a plan submitted to the City if the registrant has used commercially
reasonable efforts to anticipate and plan for the project.
§ 7-6-9: PERMIT REQUIREMENT:
   A.   Permit Required: Except as otherwise provided in this Code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way or install or place facilities in the
right-of-way without first having obtained the appropriate right-of-way or
small wireless facility permit from the City to do so.
      1.   Excavation Permit: An excavation permit is required by a registrant
to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such permit and to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by
placing facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration
specified therein.
      2.   Obstruction Permit: An obstruction permit is required by a
registrant to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of the
right-of-way by placing equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the
extent and for the duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not
required if a person already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same
project.
      3.   Small Wireless Facility Permit: A small wireless facility permit is
required to erect or install a wireless support structure, to collocate a small
wireless facility, or to otherwise install a small wireless facility in the
right-of-way. Such permit shall remain in effect for the length of time the
facility is in use, unless lawfully revoked. Small wireless facilities are
prohibited outside of the rights-of-way.
   B.   Permit Extensions: No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless: (1) such person makes
a supplementary application for another right-of-way permit before the
expiration of the initial permit, and (2) a new permit or permit extension is
granted.
   C.   Delay Penalty: In accordance with Minnesota Rules Part 7819.1000,
subpart 3 and notwithstanding the provisions herein, the City shall establish
and impose a delay penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation,
obstruction, patching, or restoration. The delay penalty shall be established
from time to time by City Council ordinance. A delay penalty will not be
imposed for delays due to force majeure, including inclement weather, civil
strife, acts of God, or other circumstances beyond the control of the
applicant.
   D.   Permit Display: Permits issued under this Section shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the City.
§ 7-6-10: PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   Application for a permit is made to the City and must be signed by the
applicant. Right-of-way and small wireless facility permit applications shall
contain, and will be considered complete only upon compliance with the
requirements of the following provisions:
   A.   Registration with the City pursuant to this Section;
   B.   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities;
   C.   Payment of money due the City for:
      1.   Permit fees, and escrow for management costs;
      2.   Past due permit fees;
      3.   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the City because
of applicant’s prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way or any
emergency actions taken by the City;
   D.   Payment of disputed amounts due the City by posting security or
depositing in an escrow account an amount equal to at least one hundred ten
percent (110%) of the amount owing;
   E.   Posting a construction performance bond or an escrow for excavation
permits when deemed necessary.
§ 7-6-11: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS:
   A.   Permit Issuance: If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this Chapter, the City shall issue a permit.
   B.   Conditions: The City may impose reasonable conditions upon the issuance
of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to protect the
public health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-of-
way and its current use.
   C.   Small Wireless Facility or Small Wireless Support Structure Permit
Conditions: The City desires high quality wireless services to accommodate the
needs of residents and businesses. At the same time, the City strives to
minimize the negative impacts that small wireless facilities can create. These
negative impacts include, but are not limited to, interference with right-of-
way user sight lines, impacts to right-of-way user circulation, incompatible
aesthetics with the surrounding area, fall zone risk, clear zone risk, creating
navigation obstacles, interference with future travel way expansion plans,
interference with the delivery of other utility services, interference with
stormwater management facilities and increased noise pollution. In addition to
any conditions imposed by the City pursuant to subsection B of this Section,
the erection or installation of a small wireless facility or small wireless
support structure shall be subject to the following:
      1.   Location: To preserve the significant financial investment made by
the City in the public improvements and aesthetic enhancements surrounding the
landscaping, special lighting, pedestrian friendly walkways, and similar
amenities in the rights-of-way, in order to protect the public health, safety
and welfare, approval for the location of small wireless facilities and support
structures shall be accommodated in the following order:
         a.   In the right-of-way on or adjacent to a principal arterial, other
arterial, major collector, or minor collector roads, as classified by the
Metropolitan Council Functional Classification System.
         b.   Collocated on existing wireless support structures within the
right-of-way.
         c.   Located on a new wireless support structure within the right- of-
way that replaces an existing wireless support structure of the same height.
         d.   Located on a new wireless support structure within the right- of-
way that replaces an existing wireless support structure whose height is less
than or equal to fifty feet (50').
         e.   Located on a new wireless support structure within the right- of-
way whose height is similar to nearby structures.
         f.   Located on a new wireless support structure within the right-of-
way whose height is less than fifty feet (50').
      2.   Other Requirements:
         a.   To avoid excessive clutter visible from public areas, a new
wireless support structure shall be separated from other wireless support
structures by a minimum of six hundred feet (600').
         b.   No new wireless support structure shall exceed fifty feet (50')
in height.
         c.   Any new wireless support structure shall be of the same design
and look as similar as possible to the newest light standard support structures
that exist on the street or in the neighborhood where the support structures
are proposed to be located.
         d.   When an applicant proposes to replace an existing wireless
support structure with a structure of the same height and the existing wireless
support structure exceeds fifty feet (50') in height, the City may impose
conditions or requirements to protect the public health, safety or welfare or
to protect the right-of- way and its current use.
         e.   When an applicant proposes collocation on an existing wireless
support structure, the small wireless facility shall not block light emanating
from the structure or otherwise interfere with the intended purpose of the
structure.
         f.   All wireless support structures shall be reasonably protected
against unauthorized climbing. The base of the tower to twelve feet (12') above
ground level shall be designed in a manner to discourage unauthorized climbing.
         g.   There shall be no advertising or identification of any kind on
the wireless support structures, except for warning signs or signs related to
equipment information that is required by the manufacturer, or by Federal,
State, or local regulations. Use of the smallest and lowest visibility radio
frequency warning sticker and/or node identification sticker allowed by
government or by utility regulations shall be the same color as the pole.
         h.   Small wireless facilities shall not be illuminated by artificial
means, except when mounted on an existing light pole, or when required by
Federal, State or local regulations, or when the lighting is part of a
camouflage design of the support structure.
         i.   For wireless support structures made of metal, all wiring shall
be mounted on the interior of the support structure so that there is no exposed
wiring. For wireless support structures made of wood, wiring may be surface-
mounted but shall be enclosed in conduit that matches the color of the support
structure. A minimal amount of wiring may be exposed from the attachments to
the support structure.
         j.   No wireless facility may extend more than ten feet (10') above
its wireless support structure or more than two and one-half feet (2 ½')
outward from the wireless support structure.
         k.   The diameter of a new wireless support structure that replaces an
existing wireless support structure shall not exceed the diameter of the
existing wireless support structure by more than fifty percent (50%).
         l.   Any ground equipment related to small wireless facilities must be
placed underground and approved by the City Engineer.
         m.   Non-reflective, matte and anti-graffiti painting shall be
required on all small wireless facilities. All attachments shall match the
color of the support structure. Any fasteners shall be made of stainless steel
or of corrosive resistant material.
         n.   Small wireless facilities and wireless support structures must
comply with all federal, State and local regulations.
   D.   Small Wireless Facility Collocation Agreement: If a small wireless
facility is to be collocated on a small wireless support structure owned or
controlled by the City, or any other City-owned asset or infrastructure in the
right-of-way, it may only do so after the applicant has executed a standard
small wireless facility collocation agreement with the City. When an applicant
proposes to replace a City-owned wireless support structure, the City may
impose reasonable restocking, replacement, or relocation requirements on the
replacement of such structure. The standard collocation agreement may require
the following payments for each City-owned structure:
      1.   Up to one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per year for rent;
      2.   Twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per year for maintenance;
      3.   A monthly fee for electrical service as follows:
         a.   Seventy-three dollars ($73.00) per radio node less than or equal
to one hundred (100) maximum watts;
         b.   One hundred eighty-two dollars ($182.00) per radio node over one
hundred (100) maximum watts; or
         c.   The actual costs of electricity, if the actual cost exceeds the
foregoing.
      4.   Such costs and payments may be automatically adjusted pursuant to
the amounts set forth in Minnesota Statutes Section 237.163, subdivision 6(g).
The standard collocation agreement shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of,
the required small wireless facility permit, and any obstruction or excavation
permits that may be required.
   E.   Action on Small Wireless Facility Permit Applications:
      1.   Approval or Denial: The City shall approve or deny a small wireless
facility permit application within sixty (60) days after filing of such
application for an existing structure and ninety (90) days for a new wireless
support structure. For applications involving both new and existing structures,
the longer deadline applies. The small wireless facility permit, and any
associated building permit application, shall be deemed approved if the City
fails to approve or deny the application within the review periods established
in this Section.
      2.   Consolidated Applications: An applicant may file a consolidated
small wireless facility permit application addressing the proposed collocation
of up to fifteen (15) small wireless facilities, or a greater number if agreed
to by the City, provided that all small wireless facilities in the application:
         a.   Are located within a two(2) mile radius;
         b.   Consist of substantially similar equipment; and
         c.   Are to be placed on similar types of wireless support structures.
   In rendering a decision on a consolidated permit application, the City may
approve some small wireless facilities sites and deny others but may not use
denial of one (1) or more permits as a basis to deny all small wireless
facilities in the application.
      3.   Tolling of Deadline: The deadline for action on a small wireless
facility permit application may be tolled if:
         a.   The City receives applications from one (1) or more applicants
seeking approval of permits for more than thirty (30) small wireless facilities
within a seven (7) day period. In such case, the City may extend the deadline
for all such applications by thirty (30) days by informing the affected
applicants in writing of such extension.
         b.   The applicant fails to submit all required documents or
information and the City provides written notice of incompleteness to the
applicant within thirty (30) days of receipt of the application. Upon
submission of additional documents or information, the City shall have ten (10)
days to notify the applicant in writing of any missing information.
         c.   The City and a small wireless facility applicant agree in writing
to toll the review period.
   An approval of a small wireless facility permit under this Section
authorizes the installation, placement, maintenance, or operation of a small
wireless facility to provide wireless service and shall not be construed to
confer authorization to provide any service other than a wireless service, or
to install, place, maintain, or operate a wireline backhaul facility in the
right-of-way.
§ 7-6-12: EXEMPTIONS FROM SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY PERMITS:
   The City shall not require a right-of-way user to pay a small wireless
facility permit fee, obtain a small wireless facility permit, or enter into a
small wireless facility collocation agreement solely in order to conduct any of
the following activities:
   A.   Routine maintenance of an existing small wireless facility;
   B.    Replacement of a small wireless facility with a new facility that is
substantially similar or smaller in size, weight, height, and wind or
structural loading than the small wireless facility being replaced;
   C.   Installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement of
micro wireless facilities that are suspended on cable strung between existing
utility poles in compliance with National Safety Codes.
   However, if any of the aforementioned work will hinder free and open passage
of the right-of-way, an obstruction permit is required pursuant to subsection
7-6-9.A.2 of this Chapter.
§ 7-6-13: PERMIT FEES:
   A.   Fee Schedule and Fee Allocation: The City’s permit fee schedule shall
be available to the public and established in advance where reasonably
possible. The permit fees shall be designed to recover the City’s actual costs
incurred in managing the right-of-way and shall be based on an allocation among
all users of the right-of-way, including the City.
   B.   Payment of Permit Fees: No permit shall be issued without payment of
the appropriate permit fees as set by City Council resolution. The City may
allow applicant to pay such fees within thirty (30) days of billing, or on some
other payment plan agreed to by the Director at his discretion.
   C.   Nonrefundable: Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the City
has revoked for a breach as stated in Section
7-6-23 of this Chapter are not refundable. Permit fees for which the City has
denied the permit application are not refundable.
   D.   Application to Franchises: Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
§ 7-6-14: RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION:
   A.   Timing: The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under
Section
7-6-17 of this Chapter.
   B.   Patch and Restoration: Permittee must patch its own work. The City may
choose either to have the permittee restore the surface and subgrading portions
of the right-of-way or to restore the surface portion of the right-of-way
itself.
      1.   City Restoration: If the City restores the surface portion of the
right-of-way, permittee shall pay the costs thereof within thirty (30) days of
billing. If, following such restoration, the pavement settles due to
permittee’s improper backfilling, the permittee shall pay to the City, within
thirty (30) days of billing, all costs associated with correcting the defective
work.
      2.   Permittee Restoration: If the permittee restores the right-of- way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minnesota
Rules Part 7819.3000.
      3.   Degradation Fee in Lieu of Restoration: In lieu of right-of- way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee. However,
the right-of-way user shall remain responsible for replacing and compacting the
subgrade and aggregate based material in the excavation and the degradation fee
shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
   C.   Standards: The permittee shall perform patching and restoration
according to the standards and with the materials specified by the City and
shall comply with Minnesota Rules Part 7819.1100.
   D.   Duty to Correct Defects: The permittee shall correct defects in
patching or restoration performed by permittee or its agents. Upon notification
from the City, permittee shall correct all restoration work to the extent
necessary, using the method required by the City. Unless otherwise agreed to by
the Director, said work shall be completed within five (5) calendar days of
receipt of the notice from the City, not including days during which work
cannot be done because of circumstances constituting force majeure or days when
work is prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under Section
7-6-17 of this Chapter.
   E.   Failure to Restore: If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the City, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the City, the
City shall notify the permittee in writing of the specific alleged failure or
failures and shall allow the permittee ten (10) days from receipt of said
written notice to cure said failure or failures, unless otherwise extended by
the Director. In the event the permittee fails to cure, the City may at its
option perform the necessary work and permittee shall pay to the City, within
thirty (30) days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way. If
permittee fails to pay as required, the City may exercise its rights under the
construction performance bond.
§ 7-6-15: JOINT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Joint Application: Registrants may jointly apply for permits to
excavate or obstruct the right-of-way at the same place and time.
   B.   Shared Fees: Registrants who apply for permits for the same obstruction
or excavation, which the City does not perform, may share in the payment of the
obstruction or excavation permit fee. In order to obtain a joint permit,
registrants must agree among themselves as to the portion each will pay and
indicate the same on their applications.
   C.   With City Projects: Registrants who join in a scheduled obstruction or
excavation performed by the City, whether or not it is a joint application by
two (2) or more registrants or a single application, are not required to pay
the excavation or obstruction and degradation portions of the permit fee, but a
permit would still be required.
§ 7-6-16: SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Limitation on Area: A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area of
the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work outside
the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any permittee
which determines that an area greater than that specified in the permit must be
obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater area: (1) make
application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees required
thereby, and (2) be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   B.   Limitation on Dates: A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date.
§ 7-6-17: OTHER OBLIGATIONS:
   A.   Compliance with Other Laws: Obtaining a right-of-way permit does not
relieve permittee of its duty to obtain all other necessary permits, licenses,
and authority and to pay all fees required by the City or other applicable
rule, law, or regulation. A permittee shall comply with all requirements of
local, State and federal laws, including Minnesota Statutes Sections 216D.01-09
(Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System). A permittee shall perform all work
in conformance with all applicable codes and established rules and regulations
and is responsible for all work done in the right-of-way pursuant to its
permit, regardless of who does the work.
   B.   Prohibited Work: Except in an emergency, and with the approval of the
City, no right-of-way obstruction or excavation may be done when seasonally
prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work.
   C.   Interference with Right-of-Way: A permittee shall not so obstruct a
right-of-way that the natural free and clear passage of water through the
gutters or other waterways shall be interfered with, unless otherwise approved
by the Director. Private vehicles of those doing work in the right-of-way may
not be parked within or next to a permit area, unless parked in conformance
with City parking regulations. The loading or unloading of trucks must be done
solely within the defined permit area unless specifically authorized by the
permit.
   D.   Traffic Control: A permittee shall implement traffic-control measures
in the area of the work and shall use traffic-control procedures in accordance
with the most recent manuals on uniform traffic control, traffic control
devices and traffic zone layouts published by the State of Minnesota.
   E.   Trenchless Excavation: As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including, but not limited
to, horizontal directional drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 216D and Minnesota Rules, Chapter 7560, and shall
require potholing or open cutting over existing underground utilities before
excavating, as determined by the Director.
§ 7-6-18: DENIAL OF PERMIT:
   A.   The City may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements and
conditions of this Chapter or if the City determines that the denial is
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare or when necessary
to protect the right-of-way and its current use.
   B.   Any denial of a right-of-way or small wireless facility permit must be
made in writing and must document the basis for the denial. The City must
notify the applicant in writing within three (3) business days of the decision
to deny the permit. If a permit application is denied, the applicant may cure
the deficiencies identified by the City and resubmit its application. If
applicant user resubmits the application within thirty (30) days of receiving
written notice of the denial, no additional filing or processing fee shall be
imposed. The City must approve or deny the revised application within thirty
(30) days after the revised application is submitted.
§ 7-6-19: INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS:
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minnesota Rules
Parts 7819.1100 and 7819.5000 and other applicable local requirements, in so
far as they are not inconsistent with Minnesota Statutes Sections 237.162 and
237.163. Installation of service laterals shall be performed in accordance with
Minnesota Rules, Chapter 7560 and this Chapter. Service lateral installation is
further subject to those requirements and conditions set forth by the City in
the applicable permits and/or agreements referenced in subsection
7-6-24.B of this Chapter.
§ 7-6-20: INSPECTION:
   A.   Notice of Completion: When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
with Minnesota Rules Part 7819.1300.
   B.   Site Inspection: Permittee shall make the work site available to the
City and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable
times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   C.   Authority of Director:
      1.   At the time of inspection, the Director may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety
or well-being of the public.
      2.   The Director may issue an order to the permittee to correct any work
that does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or code. If the work failure is a “substantial breach” within the
meaning of Minnesota Statutes Section 237.163, subdivision 4(c), the order
shall state that failure to correct the violation will be cause for revocation
of the permit after a specified period determined by the Director. The
permittee shall present proof to the Director that the violation has been
corrected within the time period set forth by the Director in the order. Such
proof shall be provided no later than the next business day following the day
of completion. If such proof has not been presented within the required time,
the Director may revoke the permit pursuant to Section
7-6-23 of this Chapter.
§ 7-6-21: WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT:
   A.   Emergency Situations: Each registrant shall immediately notify the
Director of any event regarding its facilities that the registrant considers to
be an emergency. The registrant may proceed to take whatever actions are
necessary to respond to the emergency. Within two (2) business days after the
occurrence of the emergency the registrant shall apply for the necessary
permits, pay the fees associated therewith and fulfill the rest of the
requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with this Chapter for
the actions it took in response to the emergency. If the City becomes aware of
an emergency regarding a registrant’s facilities, the City will attempt to
contact the local representative of each registrant affected, or potentially
affected, by the emergency. In any event, the City may take whatever action it
deems necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost of which shall be borne
by the registrant whose facilities occasioned the emergency.
   B.   Nonemergency Situations: Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs, or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit, pay an unauthorized work permit
fee in an amount established from time to time by the City Council, deposit
with the City the fees necessary to correct any damage to the right-of-way and
comply with all of the requirements of this Chapter.
§ 7-6-22: SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION:
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the City of
the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
§ 7-6-23: REVOCATION OF PERMITS:
   A.   Substantial Breach: The City reserves its right to revoke any right-of-
way permit, without a fee refund, if there is a substantial breach of the terms
and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule or regulation, or any material
condition of the permit. A substantial breach by permittee shall include, but
shall not be limited to, the following:
      1.   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      2.   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the City or its citizens;
      3.   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      4.   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner; unless a permit
extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to reasons
beyond the permittee’s control; or
      5.   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to Section
7-6-20 of this Chapter.
   B.   Written Notice of Breach: If the City determines that the permittee has
committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation, or any condition of the permit the City shall make
a written demand upon the permittee to remedy such violation. The demand shall
state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the permit. A
substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the City to place additional or
revised conditions on the permit to mitigate and remedy the breach.
   C.   Response to Notice of Breach: Within a time established by the Director
following permittee’s receipt of notification of the breach, permittee shall
provide the City with a plan to cure the breach, acceptable to the City.
Permittee’s failure to submit a timely and acceptable plan, or permittee’s
failure to timely implement the approved plan, shall be cause for immediate
revocation of the permit. Further, permittee’s failure to contact the City, or
permittee’s failure to submit an acceptable plan, or permittee’s failure to
reasonably implement the approved plan, may result in probation for up to one
(1) full year.
   D.   Cause for Probation: The City may establish a list of conditions of the
permit, that if breached will be grounds to place the permittee on probation.
The City shall not enforce a probation program unless and until it has
established such conditions, which it may amend from time to time.
   E.   Reimbursement of City Costs: If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the City for the City’s reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorney fees
incurred in connection with such revocation.
   F.   Automatic Revocation: If a permittee, while on probation, commits a
breach as outlined in subsection D, “Cause for Probation”, of this Section,
permittee’s permit will automatically be revoked and permittee will not be
allowed further permits for one (1) full year except for emergency repairs.
   G.   Notification: Any revocation of a right-of-way or small wireless
facility permit must be made in writing and must document the basis for the
revocation. The City must notify the right-of-way user in writing within three
(3) business days of the decision to revoke a permit.
§ 7-6-24: MAPPING DATA:
   A.   Information Required: Each registrant and permittee shall provide
mapping information required by the City in accordance with Minnesota Rules
Parts 7819.4000 and 7819.4100. Within ninety (90) days following completion of
any work pursuant to a permit, the permittee shall provide the Director
accurate maps and drawings certifying the “as built” location of all equipment
installed, owned and maintained by the facilities and equipment and shall be
provided consistent with the City’s electronic maps and drawings pursuant to
this subsection. Failure to comply with this subsection shall be grounds for
revoking the permit holder’s registration.
   B.   Service Laterals: All permits issued for the installation or repair of
service laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minnesota Rules Part
7560.0150, subpart 2, shall require the permittee’s use of appropriate means of
establishing the horizontal locations of installed service laterals, and the
service lateral vertical locations in those cases where the Director reasonably
requires it. Permittees or their subcontractors shall submit to the Director
evidence satisfactory to the Director of the installed service lateral
locations. Compliance with this section, with applicable Gopher State One Call
Law, and Minnesota Rules governing service laterals installed after December
31, 2005, shall be a condition of any City approval necessary for: (1) payments
to contractors working on a public improvement project including those under
Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 429, and (2) City approval of performance under
development agreements, or other subdivision or site plan approval under
Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 462. The Director shall reasonably determine the
appropriate method of providing such information to the City. Failure to
provide prompt and accurate information on the service laterals installed may
result in the revocation of the permit issued for the work or for future
permits to the offending permittee or its subcontractors.
§ 7-6-25: UNDERGROUNDING:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to promote the health, safety,
and general welfare of the public and is intended to foster: (1) safe travel
over the right-of-way, (2) nontravel related safety around homes and buildings
where overhead feeds are connected and (3) orderly development in the City.
Location and relocation, installation, and reinstallation of facilities in the
right-of-way must be made in accordance with this Section. This Section is
intended to be enforced consistently with State and Federal law regulating
right-of-way users, specifically including, but not limited to, Minnesota
Statutes Sections 161.45, 237.162, 237.163, 301B.01, 222.37, 238.084 and
216B.36 and the Telecommunications Act of 1996, Title 47, USC Section 253.
   B.   Undergrounding of Facilities: Facilities newly installed, constructed
or otherwise placed in the public right-of-way or in other public property held
in common for public use must be located and maintained underground pursuant to
the terms and conditions of this Section and in accordance with applicable
construction standards, subject to the exceptions below. Aboveground
installation, construction, modification, or replacement of meters, gauges,
transformers, street lighting, pad mount switches, capacitor banks, reclosers
and service connection pedestals shall be allowed. The requirements of this
section shall apply equally outside of the corporate limits of the City
coincident with City jurisdiction of platting, subdivision regulation or
comprehensive planning as may now or in the future be allowed by law.
   C.   Exceptions to Undergrounding: The following exceptions to the strict
application of this Section shall be allowed upon the conditions stated:
      1.   Transmission Lines: Aboveground installation, construction, or
placement of those facilities commonly referred to as “high voltage
transmission lines” upon which a conductor’s normal operating voltage equals or
exceeds twenty three thousand (23,000) volts (phase to phase) shall be allowed
only by prior approval of the Council; provided, however, that sixty (60) days
prior to commencement of construction of such a project, the City shall be
furnished notice of the proposed project and, upon request, the right-of-way
user involved shall furnish all relevant information regarding such project to
the City. This provision shall not be construed as waiving the requirements of
any other ordinance or regulation of the City as the same may apply to any such
proposed project.
      2.   Technical and Economic Feasibility: Aboveground installation,
construction, or placement of facilities shall be allowed in residential,
commercial and industrial areas where the Council, following consideration and
recommendation by the Planning Commission, finds that:
         a.   Underground placement would place an undue financial burden upon
the landowner, ratepayers, or right-of-way user or would deprive the landowner
of the preservation and enjoyment of substantial property rights; or
         b.   Underground placement is impractical or not technically feasible
due to topographical, subsoil or other existing conditions that adversely
affect underground facilities placement.
      3.   Temporary Service: Aboveground installation, construction, or
placement of temporary service lines shall only be allowed:
         a.   During new construction of any project for a period not to exceed
twenty-four (24) months;
         b.   During an emergency in order to safeguard lives or property
within the City;
         c.   For a period of not more than seven (7) months when soil
conditions make excavation impractical.
   D.   Undergrounding of Permanent Replacement, Relocated or Reconstructed
Facilities: If the City finds that one (1) or more of the purposes set forth in
subsection A of this Section would be promoted, the City may require a
permanent replacement, relocation, or reconstruction of a facility of more than
three hundred feet (300') to be located, and maintained underground, with due
regard for seasonal working conditions. For purposes of this Section,
reconstruction means any substantial repair of or any improvement to existing
facilities. Undergrounding may be required whether a replacement, relocation or
reconstruction is initiated by the right-of-way user owning or operating the
facilities, or by the City in connection with: (1) the present or future use by
the City or other local government unit of the right-of-way or other public
ground for a public project, (2) the public health or safety, or (3) the safety
and convenience of travel over the right-of-way.
   E.   Retirement of Overhead Facilities: The City Council may determine
whether it is in the public interest that all facilities within the City, or
facilities within certain districts designated by the City, be permanently
placed and maintained underground by a date certain or target date,
independently of undergrounding required pursuant to subsection B of this
Section (new facilities) and subsection D of this Section (replacement
facilities). The decision to underground must be preceded by a public hearing,
after published notice and written notice to the utilities affected (two (2)
weeks published: thirty (30) days written). At the hearing the Council must
consider items in subsection G.1 through G.4 of this Section and make findings.
Undergrounding may not take place until City Council has, after hearing and
notice, adopted a plan containing items in subsection I.1 through I.6 of this
Section.
   F.   Public Hearings: A hearing must be open to the public and may be
continued from time to time. At each hearing any person interested must be
given an opportunity to be heard. The subject of the public hearings shall be
the issue of whether facilities in the right-of-way in the City, or located
within a certain district, shall all be located underground by a date certain.
Hearings are not necessary for the undergrounding required under subsection B
or D of this Section.
   G.   Public Hearing Issues: The issues to be addressed at the public
hearings include, but are not limited to:
      1.   The costs and benefits to the public of requiring the undergrounding
of all facilities in the right-of-way.
      2.   The feasibility and cost of undergrounding all facilities by a date
certain as determined by the City and the affected utilities.
      3.   The tariff requirements, procedure and rate design for recovery or
intended recovery of incremental costs for undergrounding by the utilities from
ratepayers within the City.
      4.   Alternative financing options available if the City deems it in the
public interest to require undergrounding by a date certain and deems it
appropriate to participate in the cost otherwise borne by the ratepayers.
   H.   Upon completion of the hearing or hearings, the City Council must make
written findings on whether it is in the public interest to establish a plan
under which all facilities will be underground, either Citywide or within
districts designated by the City.
   I.   Undergrounding Plan: If the Council finds that it is in the public
interest to underground all or substantially all facilities in the public
right-of-way or in non-right-of-way public ground, the Council must establish a
plan for such undergrounding. The plan for undergrounding must include at least
the following elements:
      1.   Timetable for the undergrounding.
      2.   Designation of districts for the undergrounding unless the
undergrounding plan is Citywide.
      3.   Exceptions to the undergrounding requirement and procedure for
establishing such exceptions.
      4.   Procedures for the undergrounding process, including, but not
limited to, coordination with City projects and provisions to ensure compliance
with nondiscrimination requirements under the law.
      5.   A financing plan for funding of the incremental costs if the City
determines that it will finance some of the undergrounding costs, and a
determination and verification of the claimed additional costs to underground
incurred by the utility.
      6.   Penalties or other remedies for failure to comply with the
undergrounding.
   J.   Facilities Location:
      1.   In addition to complying with the requirements of Minnesota Statutes
Sections 216D.01-09 (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System), before the
start date of any right-of-way excavation, each registrant who has facilities
located in the area to be excavated shall mark the horizontal placement of all
said facilities. To the extent its records contain such information, each
registrant shall provide information regarding the approximate vertical
location of its facilities to excavators upon request. Nothing in this
subsection is meant to limit the rights, duties, and obligations of facility
owners or excavators as set forth in Minnesota Statutes Sections 216D.01-09.
Any right-of-way user whose facility is less than twenty inches (20") below a
concrete or asphalt surface shall notify and work closely with the excavation
contractor in an effort to establish and mark the exact horizontal and vertical
location of its facility and the best procedure for excavation.
      2.   All facilities shall be placed in appropriate portions of right-of-
way so as to cause minimum conflict with other underground facilities. When
technically appropriate, all utilities shall be installed, constructed, or
placed within the same trench.
   K.   Developer Responsibility: All owners, platters, or developers are
responsible for complying with the requirements of this Section, and prior to
final approval of any plat or development plan, shall submit to the Director
written instruments from the appropriate right-of-way users showing that all
necessary arrangements with said users for installation of such facilities have
been made.
§ 7-6-26: RELOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A right-of-way user shall promptly and at its own expense, with due regard
for seasonal working conditions, permanently remove and relocate its facilities
in the right-of-way when it is necessary to prevent interference, and not
merely for the convenience of the City, in connection with: (a) a present or
future City use of the right-of-way for a public project; (b) the public health
or safety; or (c) the safety and convenience of travel over the right-of-way.
§ 7-6-27: INTERFERENCE BY OTHER FACILITIES:
   When the City does work in the right-of-way in its governmental right-of-way
management function and finds it necessary to maintain, support, or move a
registrant’s facilities to carry out the work without damaging registrant’s
facilities, the City shall notify the local representative as early as is
reasonably possible. The City costs associated therewith will be billed to that
registrant and must be paid within thirty (30) days from the date of billing.
Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any facilities
in the right-of-way which it or its facilities damages.
§ 7-6-28: RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION; RESERVATION OF RIGHT:
   If the City vacates a right-of-way that contains the facilities of a
registrant, the registrant’s rights in the vacated right-of- way are governed
by Minnesota Rules Part 7819.3200.
§ 7-6-29: INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY:
   By registering with the City, or by accepting a permit under this Chapter, a
registrant or permittee agrees to defend and indemnify the City in accordance
with the provisions of Minnesota Rules Part 7819.1250.
§ 7-6-30: ABANDONED AND UNUSABLE FACILITIES:
   A.   Discontinued Operations: A registrant who has determined to discontinue
all or a portion of its operations in the City must provide information
satisfactory to the City that the registrant’s obligations for its facilities
in the right-of-way under this Chapter have been lawfully assumed by another
registrant.
   B.   Removal: Any registrant who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-
way shall remove it from that right-of-way if required in conjunction with
other right-of-way repair, excavation, or construction, unless this requirement
is waived by the City.
§ 7-6-31: APPEAL:
   A right-of-way user that: (a) has been denied registration; (b) has been
denied a permit; (c) has had permit revoked; or (d) believes that the fees
imposed are not in conformity with Minnesota Statutes Section 237.163,
subdivision 6 may have the denial, revocation, or fee imposition reviewed, upon
written request, by the City Council. The City Council shall act on a timely
written request at its next available meeting. A decision by the City Council
affirming the denial, revocation, or fee imposition will be in writing and
supported by written findings establishing the reasonableness of the decision.
§ 7-6-32: RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS:
   A permittee’s or registrant’s rights are subject to the regulatory and
police powers of the City to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to
protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
TITLE 8: WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1: WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
8-1-1: Management of Water and Sewage Systems
8-1-2: Water and Sewer Connections; On-Site Sewage Disposal; Private Wells
8-1-3: Connection Permits and Fees
8-1-4: Water Meters
8-1-5: Connection Requirements
8-1-6: Excavations
8-1-7: Liability for Maintenance of and Repairs to Water and Sewer Lines
8-1-8: Consent to Rules, Regulations and Rates
8-1-9: Rates and Charges; Bills for Service; Discontinuance of Service
8-1-10: Water Conservation
8-1-11: Nonliability of City for Water Deficiency
8-1-12: Cross-Connection Control
8-1-13: Valves
8-1-14: Discharge of Storm and Surface Waters
8-1-15: Sewage Service Availability and Connection Charges
8-1-16: Waste Control Regulations
8-1-17: Industrial User Strength Charge
§ 8-1-1: MANAGEMENT OF WATER AND SEWAGE SYSTEMS:
   A.   The water and sewer systems as they are now constituted or shall
hereafter be enlarged or extended shall be operated and maintained under the
provisions of this Chapter subject to the authority of the City Council at any
time to amend, alter, change, or repeal the same.
   B.   The City Council shall have charge and management of the water and
sewer systems, subject to such delegation of the authority to the City
Engineer, City Administrator and to other City employees as the City Council
shall provide.
§ 8-1-2: WATER AND SEWER CONNECTIONS; ON-SITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL; PRIVATE WELLS:
   A.   Within Urban Service Area: Within the city’s urban service area, as
defined by the comprehensive plan, all structures designed for human occupancy
shall be connected to the public water and sewage disposal systems where
feasible. On-site sewage disposal systems and private wells may be allowed
within the urban service area on a temporary basis. Such facilities shall be
designed so as to be easily connected to the public systems. If an on-site
sewage disposal system or private well fails and a property has access to city
facility, the property must connect to the public system. All private on-site
sewage disposal systems within the urban service area shall conform with all
other standards adopted by the city for their design, installation and
maintenance.
   B.   Outside Urban Service Area: On-site sewage disposal systems and private
wells will be permitted outside of the city’s urban service area, as defined by
the comprehensive plan, only when all of the following conditions are met:
      1.   All on-site sewage disposal systems and private wells shall be
designed, maintained and installed in accordance with applicable regulations of
the state department of health, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency
standards and all other city regulations.
      2.   Where on-site sewage disposal systems are to be utilized, the lot
shall have a minimum area of one and one-half (1 ½) acres of land on a slope of
less than thirteen percent (13%), regardless of more lenient zoning
regulations.
      3.   No on-site sewage disposal systems will be permitted in the
following areas:
         a.   Areas where slopes are eighteen percent (18%) or greater;
         b.   Designated floodplains or wetlands;
         c.   Within seventy-five feet (75') from the normal high-water mark of
a body of water or designated bluff lines; or
         d.   Any other areas designated by the utilities element of the
Comprehensive Plan as unsuitable.
      4.   Special engineering of on-site sewage disposal systems may be
required in the following cases:
         a.   Areas where slopes are greater than twelve percent (12%) but less
than eighteen percent (18%);
         b.   Where percolation rates are slower than sixty (60) minutes per
inch or faster than five (5) minutes per inch;
         c.   Where the ground water table is less than five feet (5') deep;
         d.   Where bedrock is within five feet (5') of the bottom of the
system; or
         e.   Where soil classifications require the use of alternative
systems.
§ 8-1-3: CONNECTION PERMITS AND FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall make any type of connection to the
water system, sanitary sewer, or storm sewer system except upon making an
application therefor on a form provided by the City and receiving a permit
issued by the City for such purposes.
   B.   Application for Permit: The application shall include the legal
description of the property to be served, the uses for which the connection is
requested, and the size of the service line to be used.
   C.   Fees: At the time of making such application, there shall be paid to
the City Building Inspection Division the following fees for the following
purposes:
      1.   Utilities: No connections shall be made with respect to any sanitary
sewer, water system, or storm sewer system serving the property of any person
or occupants of the land, parcel, or premises affected that have not paid or
provided for the payment of the full and proportionate share of the utilities,
which share shall be payable as follows:
         a.   For service to property to which service lines have not been
previously run from the street laterals to the property line, the owner,
occupant, or user shall pay into the City Treasury an amount of not less than
the cost of making the necessary connections, taps, and installation of pipe
and appurtenances to provide service to the property and the necessary street
repairs.
         b.   For service to property to which service lines have been run to
the property line, but which have not been paid for, the owner, occupant, or
user shall pay in cash or agree to pay charges in the form of special
assessments to be levied against the property to be spread over a number of
years coincident with the maturity requirements of any special improvement
bonds sold for the purpose of financing the construction of the sanitary sewer,
City water, or storm sewer system serving the property. Such cash payment or
assessment charge shall be in the principal amount of not less than the
payments made by or charges placed against comparable properties for like
services for such sanitary sewer, water, or storm sewer system in an amount as
may be established by the City Council. In the instance of services run to the
property lines as provided under subsection C.1.a of this Section, the payment
to the City of any amount required under this subsection C.1.b shall be reduced
by the amount paid to the City under said subsection C.1.a. Payment to the City
in the form of a special assessment charge shall be in the form of equal annual
installments together with interest on the unpaid balance from year to year,
which interest shall be computed at the then prevailing statutory rate of
interest.
      2.   Area and Connection Charges: Before proceeding with the
construction, enlargement, alteration, or repair of any water or sewer lines
connecting the water system, sanitary sewer system, or storm sewer system in
any house or building, the owner or their agent shall first obtain a permit for
such purposes from the City through its Building Inspection Division. The fees
for area charges and connection charges shall be established in the City’s fee
ordinance. All connection and trunk charges are in addition to the sewer
availability charges imposed by Section
8-1-15 of this Chapter.
         a.   Area charges shall be collected for:
            (1)   All new commercial, industrial, or institutional development.
The area charges shall be computed on the acreage of all tax parcels included
in the development site.
            (2)   Expansion of existing commercial, industrial, or
institutional uses, when additional land is acquired and where City approval is
required for the subdivision of the additional land. The charges shall be
computed on the acreage of the additional land which is being added to the
existing development.
            (3)   Residential development or any new residential lot, where
City approval for the residential construction is required. The area charges
shall be computed on the gross land area being developed, excluding from the
computation the acreage for ponding areas, major highway rights of way and
floodplains.
         b.   Area charges and connection fees shall be paid at the time a
building permit is obtained, unless a subdivision agreement, development
agreement, or resolution approving a subdivision, rural subdivision, or lot
division provides otherwise.
      3.   Water Meters: Before any water conveyed through the City water
system shall be used on the land or premises of any person, there shall first
be installed a water meter that will accurately measure the water actually
consumed on the premises, except and unless such installation shall be exempted
by the City. All meters installed shall be of a type approved by the City. If a
proposed meter location is not readily accessible to City personnel, the
Building Official may require installation of outside reading remote meters.
All meters shall be purchased by the applicant from the City and after
installation shall become and remain the property of the City.
§ 8-1-4: WATER METERS:
   A.   Property of City: All water meters installed shall be and remain the
property of the City or its successor.
   B.   Application for Meter: All applications for the installation,
maintenance, and repair of water meters shall be made to the City Water and
Wastewater Division. City Water and Wastewater Division staff shall proceed to
comply with such application within a reasonable time thereafter.
   C.   Authority to Install, Maintain, Repair and Break Seal: No person other
than the City or its designee shall install, maintain, or repair any water
meter within the City limits. Every water meter connected to the water system
shall be sealed by or under the direction of the Building Official, and no
person shall break or remove such seal; provided, however, that a plumber
licensed to do business in the City may break such seal or remove such meter
for necessary repairs. In all cases where a seal is broken or a meter is
removed by a licensed plumber, such plumber shall notify the Building Official
of the fact within twenty-four (24) hours after the seal is broken or the meter
is removed. Whenever any seal attached to a water meter by or under the
direction of the Building Official is found broken, the broken condition of
such seal shall be prima facie evidence that such seal was broken contrary to
the terms and provisions in violation of this Chapter.
   D.   Accessibility of Meters: All water meters connected to the water system
shall be accessible to the Building Official or designee at any reasonable hour
of any business day. The refusal of admission by any owner or occupant of any
premises wherein a water meter is installed after such owner or occupant has
been notified that admission is desired for the purpose of inspecting a water
meter installed in such premises shall constitute a violation of this Chapter.
   E.   Repairs: Meters shall be repaired from time to time as is necessary to
ensure accurate measuring of the flow of water; except, that whenever a meter
has been damaged due to negligence on the part of persons other than the
employees of the City, the owner, occupant, or user of the premises or such
other persons desiring the use of the water shall reimburse the City within a
reasonable time and, upon demand therefor, the water service and supply to such
premises may be shut off or discontinued as determined to be in the best
interest of the City.
   F.   Additional Meters: In the event a customer utilizes water in such a way
that it is not discharged into the City sanitary sewer system, installation of
additional meters may be authorized to measure the volume of such consumption
to prevent payment of sewer charges on that amount. Any such additional meters
now installed or installed in the future between the City water main and the
customer’s primary water service meter shall comply in all respects with all
ordinances and regulations governing water meters set forth herein.
   G.   Meter Tests: Whenever a water user questions the accuracy of the meter
and desires that their meter be tested, water user shall pay a fee established
by Council resolution if the meter tests accurate within a range of minus three
percent (-3%) to plus one and one-half percent (1 ½%). If it is not accurate
within this range, no charge will be made for testing, and adjustment on the
water bill will be made for the period of time that the meter is assumed to be
inaccurate, not to exceed two (2) billing periods.
   H.   Tampering with Meters: No person shall tamper with, alter, bypass or in
any manner whatsoever interfere with the proper use and functioning of any
water meter within the City.
§ 8-1-5: CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Valves Required: There shall be installed in every connection to the
City water system one (1) full-way valve which shall be installed at a point
between the curb stop and the meter so that the water may be turned off and the
meter and house plumbing entirely drained. There shall be installed another
full-way valve in the pipe on the house side of the meter.
   B.   Pipe Specifications: All service pipes connected to the City system
shall be a type K copper, a minimum of one inch (1") inside diameter or its
approved equal, and shall be laid at a depth not less than seven and one-half
feet (7 ½') below the established grade, or as low as the street mains.
   C.   Separate Lines Required: Separate water and sewer service lines shall
be required of each unit of a dwelling, whether it be single-family, town
house, or duplex-type construction.
   D.   Connection by Certified Contractor: All connections to the water system
or sanitary sewer system shall be performed by a person currently certified by
the Minnesota Utilities Contractors Association.
§ 8-1-6: EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Supervision: All installation work or repair of connections to the
water and sewer systems, including grades, bends, and backfilling, shall be
performed under the direction and supervision of the City.
   B.   Permit Required: No digging in any permanent type of street shall be
permitted except by special permission from the City.
   C.   Protective Devices: All work and excavations shall be protected by
barricades and warning markers and lights reasonable and suitable to the
purpose.
   D.   Nonliability of City: The City shall be held harmless for any claim or
loss as might otherwise arise for damage, loss, or injury caused by or arising
by reason of such work being performed, and the applicant causing such work to
be done shall give undertaking to the City with respect thereto.
§ 8-1-7: LIABILITY FOR MAINTENANCE OF AND REPAIRS TO WATER AND SEWER LINES:
   After the initial connection has been made to the sanitary sewer line or to
the water system, the responsibility for maintenance and repair shall be as
follows:
   A.   Sanitary Sewer Lines:
      1.   The owner, occupant, or user of the premises shall be responsible
for all maintenance from the premises to the sanitary sewer main.
      2.   The City shall be responsible for the repair of any break between
the curb line and the sewer main.
   B.   Water Lines:
      1.   The owner, occupant, or user of the premises shall be responsible
for all maintenance and repair of water lines between the premises and the curb
stop.
      2.   The City shall be responsible for all maintenance and repairs of the
water lines from the water main up to, and including, the curb stop.
   C.   Curb Stop Box Installation:
      1.   The curb stop box shall be maintained at a height at finished grade
of the land or property, and the owner of such property shall not interfere
with the same.
      2.   No structure or driveway shall be installed in such a manner as to
interfere with access to the curb stop box.
      3.   The homeowner shall be responsible to ensure that the curb stop box
remains at finished grade where there is any landscaping or where grade changes
are made.
   D.   Grease Interceptors: All restaurants and grease producing facilities
shall make all necessary provisions to supply and maintain approved grease
interceptors as per the State Plumbing Code.
   E.   Definition: “Maintenance”, as used in this Section, shall include
repair of any break, cleaning and/or removal of roots, debris, or clogs between
the premises and the sewer main.
§ 8-1-8: CONSENT TO RULES, REGULATIONS AND RATES:
   Every person applying for water or sewer service, every owner of property
for which any such application is made, every person accepting water or sewer
service and every owner of property where such service is accepted shall be
deemed upon making such application or accepting such service to consent to all
rules, regulations and rates as established by this Chapter and as may
hereafter be set forth and adopted by the City Council by ordinance.
§ 8-1-9: RATES AND CHARGES; BILLS FOR SERVICE; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
   A.   Authority: The City Council shall have the authority to prescribe by
ordinance or resolution the rates to be charged for water and sewer service to
the customer from time to time and may prescribe the date of billing, a
discount for payment within a prescribed period, penalty for failure to pay
within such period and such further rules and regulations relative to the use
and operation of such systems as it may deem necessary from time to time.
   B.   Meter Readings; Billing Areas: The City Council may provide a system of
water meter reading by postcard, meter person, or any other method deemed
suitable to the purpose by the Council. The Council may also establish billing
areas or districts and provide for the reading of meters and billing charges by
calendar quarters or monthly quarters or such periodic intervals as the City
Council shall determine suitable and necessary from time to time. The sewer
charge for residential users shall be based on the lower of the actual water
use for that quarter or the average winter consumption; the winter use for that
quarter or the average winter consumption; the winter consumption shall be a
minimum of two thousand (2,000) gallons determined on a monthly basis. The
sewer consumption for commercial users shall be the actual water use.
   C.   Discontinuance of Service: The City reserves the right to discontinue
service to any customer of the water and sanitary sewer system without notice
when necessary for repairs, additional connection or reconnection, for
nonpayment of charges or bills, or for disregard of any rules or regulations in
connection with the use or operation of such system. Whenever any service has
been discontinued for nonpayment of the charges or bills, for disregard of any
rules or regulations, or for any other purpose, it shall not be resumed except
upon payment of the charges or bills accrued, together with interest thereon,
or upon compliance with the rules and regulations previously violated and
payment to the City of a restoration fee established in the City’s fee
ordinance.
   D.   Delinquent Bills; Lien: In the event a water or sewer bill is unpaid at
the end of the calendar quarter or the billing period under which the billing
is sent out, the billing shall be considered delinquent, the service may be
discontinued as provided in subsection C of this Section, and the City Council
may cause the charges noted in such billing to become a lien against the
property served by certifying to the County Auditor the amount of such
delinquent bill in accordance with the Statutes of the State.
   E.   Final Meter Readings; Water Shutoff; Reconnections: After a final meter
reading, the water shall be forthwith shut off, unless a responsible party
assumes the obligation of payment of the new water bill. Any reconnection or
turn on outside of the Water and Wastewater Division’s regular working hours
shall be charged a fee established by the City’s fee ordinance.
   F.   Meter Failures; Determination of Charges: If a meter fails to register
or accurately measure the water, the charge for water consumed shall be paid
for at the established rate based upon past average billings.
§ 8-1-10: WATER CONSERVATION:
   A.   Emergency Regulations: The Mayor or assigned designee may impose
emergency water usage regulations by limiting the times and hours, or
completely prohibiting water use of the City’s water system for sprinkling
lawns, landscaping and gardens, irrigation, and other uses. The Mayor or
assigned designee must give notice by publication or by posting in the City
Hall and other public places.
   B.   Watering Lawns and Gardens:
      1.   The watering and sprinkling of lawns and/or gardens from a municipal
water supply system shall be permitted on even numbered days for property with
even numbered addresses and on odd numbered days for property with odd numbered
addresses; except, that no property may be watered on the thirty-first (31st)
day of any month.
      2.   Outdoor watering is prohibited between the hours of twelve o’clock
(12:00) noon and four o’clock (4:00) P.M.
      3.   The foregoing limitations shall apply only to property served by
City water.
      4.   A violation of a provision of this subsection is a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine or imprisonment or both. Each act of violation and each
day on which a violation occurs or continues is a separate violation.
   C.   Exempt Watering Activities:
      1.   Hand watering flower beds, washing vehicles, and water apparatus
used by children playing are exempt from the even-odd day and time of day
watering bans.
      2.   Watering lawns and landscaping for the first thirty (30) days after
the establishment or planting of new lawns or landscaping is permitted with a
permit from Public Works.
   D.   Leak in Service Line: Any owner, occupant, or user of premises who
shall discover a leak in a service line to the premises shall notify the Public
Works Department within twenty-four (24) hours. Any water wasted due to failure
of such person to comply with this regulation shall be estimated by the City
Water and Wastewater Division and be charged against the owner of such premises
at the established rate.
§ 8-1-11: NONLIABILITY OF CITY FOR WATER DEFICIENCY:
   The City shall not be held liable at any time for any deficiency or failure
in the supply of water to the customer whether the same be occasioned by
shutting off the water for repairs or connections or for any cause whatever.
§ 8-1-12: CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL:
   Whenever any premises are connected to the City water system, there shall be
maintained a complete physical separation between the City water supply system
and the private water supply system so that it is impossible to intentionally
or unintentionally allow any water produced by a private system to be
introduced in the supply line from the City system.
§ 8-1-13: VALVES:
   A.   Backflow Valves: All water lines serving commercial, industrial, or
multiple dwelling structures which are connected to the municipal water system
shall contain an automatic backflow valve to prevent contamination of the
municipal water in the event of low pressure. The valve shall be of a type
approved by the Building Official. This subsection shall be retroactive.
   B.   Hydrant Shutoff Valves: All fire hydrants installed in the City, except
those in single-family residential districts, shall be equipped with a shutoff
valve in the water supply line.
§ 8-1-14: DISCHARGE OF STORM AND SURFACE WATERS:
   A.   Discharge to Sanitary Sewers Prohibited: No owner, occupant or user of
any premises shall direct into or allow any storm water or surface water to
drain into the sanitary sewer system of the City.
   B.   Discharge Pipe: A discharge pipe shall be installed to the outside wall
of all new and remodeled buildings with rigid pipe (plastic, copper, galvanized
or black pipe) three-fourths inch (¾") inside diameter minimum with a union or
other approved coupling for easy disconnection for repair or replacement. The
discharge pipe shall have a hose bib or three-fourths inch (¾") hose connector
at the outside of the hose wall, and shall be installed at the time of sump
basket installation.
§ 8-1-15: SEWAGE SERVICE AVAILABILITY AND CONNECTION CHARGES:
   A.   Statement of Purpose: The Metropolitan Council Environmental Services
(MCES) Agency reserves unused capacity in the Metropolitan Disposal System
(MDS) each year for local government units in which new buildings will be
connected to the system or new connections to the system are commenced during
each year and allocates the debt service costs of such unused capacity for the
year among such local government units. In order for the City to pay such costs
allocated to it each year, sewer service availability and connection charges
are levied for all new connections or increased volume to the Metropolitan
Disposal System.
   B.   Service Availability Charge Established:
      1.   For the purpose of paying costs of reserve capacity allocated to the
City each year by the Metropolitan Council Environmental Services Agency, there
is hereby established a service availability charge (SAC) for:
         a.   The availability of treatment works and interceptors comprising
the Metropolitan Disposal System; and
         b.   Connections, direct and indirect, to the Metropolitan Disposal
System.
      2.   The charge is imposed on each building or structure in the City and
each connection to the Metropolitan Disposal System directly or through the
City’s system, inside any sewer service area established by the Metropolitan
Council Environmental Services Agency. The charge shall be payable upon the
issuance of a building permit or a connection permit, as the case may be, but
no charge shall be due upon the issuance of a connection permit if a charge was
paid upon issuance of a building permit.
      3.   The service availability charge (SAC) for each building or structure
shall be equal to the estimated number of units of sewage volume that it will
discharge. Service availability charge (SAC) determinations and related fees
are established by the Metropolitan Council Environmental Services Agency and
allocated as follows:
         a.   Single-family homes, town homes, condominiums, apartments and
duplex units with plumbing for laundry facilities shall comprise one (1) SAC
unit each.
         b.   Condominiums and apartments may receive a twenty percent (20%)
rate reduction if there is no plumbing for laundry facilities within each
dwelling unit. This is generally evidenced by common laundry facilities.
         c.   Other buildings and structures shall be assigned one (1) unit for
each one hundred thousand (100,000) gallons of flow or part thereof which it is
estimated they will discharge.
         d.   Public housing units and housing units subsidized under any
government program for low and moderate income housing may receive a twenty-
five percent (25%) reduction of the unit equivalent for that type of housing.
Application for the reduction must be made in writing to the Metropolitan
Council Environmental Services Agency.
   C.   Information Provided: The Building Official shall prepare or revise
building permit or sewage connection permit application forms to provide
information necessary for the computation of the number of units assignable to
the building or structure in question and shall collect the applicable charge
before issuance of a permit. The City shall make such information available to
the Metropolitan Council Environmental Services (MCES) Agency on a report
format provided by them for that purpose or upon request. If, upon filing a
report covering such permit with the Metropolitan Council Environmental
Services (MCES) Agency, the MCES Agency determines that a greater number of
units is assignable to the building or structure in question, any additional
cost allocated to the City as a result shall be paid by the person or company
to whom the permit was granted.
§ 8-1-16: WASTE CONTROL REGULATIONS:
   The waste discharge rules and fees as established for the Metropolitan
Disposal System, as regulated by the Metropolitan Council Environmental
Services Agency, are hereby adopted by reference as if stated herein in full.
§ 8-1-17: INDUSTRIAL USER STRENGTH CHARGE:
   A.   Recitals: The Metropolitan Council Environmental Services Agency, a
metropolitan area agency organized and existing under the laws of the State, in
order to receive and retain grants in compliance with the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 and regulations thereunder, imposes an
industrial user sewer strength charge upon users of the metropolitan disposal
system (as defined in Minnesota Statutes Section 473.121, subdivision 24) to
recover operation and maintenance costs of treatment works attributable to the
strength of the discharge of industrial waste, such sewer strength charge being
in addition to the charge based upon the volume of discharge. In order for the
City to pay such costs based upon strength of industrial discharge and
allocated to it each year by the Commission, it is hereby found, determined,
and declared to be necessary to establish sewer strength charges and a formula
for the computation thereof for all industrial users receiving waste treatment
services within or served by the City. Furthermore, Minnesota Statutes Section
444.075, subdivision 3, empowers the City to make such sewer charge a charge
against the owner, lessee, occupant, or all of them and certify unpaid charges
to the County Auditor as a tax lien against the property served.
   B.   Strength Charges Established: For the purpose of paying the costs
allocated to the City each year by the Metropolitan Council Environmental
Services Agency that are based upon the strength of discharge of all industrial
users receiving waste treatment services within or served by the City, there is
hereby approved, adopted, and established, in addition to the sewer charge
based upon the volume of discharge, a sewer charge upon each person, company,
or corporation receiving waste treatment services within or served by the City,
based upon strength of industrial waste discharged into the sewer system of the
City (the “strength charge”).
   C.   Payment of Charges: It is hereby approved, adopted, and established
that the strength charge established by subsection B of this Section shall be
paid by each industrial user receiving waste treatment services and subject
thereto before the twentieth (20th) day next succeeding the date of billing
thereof to such user by or on behalf of the City, and such payment thereof
shall be deemed to be delinquent if not so paid to the billing entity before
such date. Furthermore, it is hereby established, approved, and adopted that if
such payment is not paid before such date, an industrial user shall pay
interest compounded monthly at the rate of two-thirds of one percent (0.66%)
per month on the unpaid balance due.
   D.   Failure to Pay; Tax Lien: As provided by Minnesota Statutes Section
444.075, subdivision 3, it is hereby approved, adopted, and established that if
payment of the strength charge established by subsection B of this Section is
not paid before the sixtieth (60th) day next succeeding the date of billing
thereof to the industrial user by or on behalf of the City, said delinquent
sewer strength charge, plus accrued interest established pursuant to subsection
C of this Section, shall be deemed to be a charge against the owner, lessee,
and occupant of the property serviced, and the City or its agent shall certify
such unpaid delinquent balance to the County Auditor with taxes against the
property served for collection as other taxes are collected; provided, however,
that such certification shall not preclude the City or its agent from recovery
of such delinquent sewer strength charge and interest thereon under any other
available remedy.
CHAPTER 2: STORMWATER; ILLICIT DISCHARGE AND ILLICIT CONNECTION
Section
8-2-1: Findings, Purpose, and Intent
8-2-2: Definitions
8-2-3: Applicability
8-2-4: Minimum Standards
8-2-5: Stormwater and Urban Runoff Control
§ 8-2-1: FINDINGS, PURPOSE, AND INTENT:
   A.   The City of Cottage Grove hereby finds that non-stormwater discharges
to the City’s municipal separated storm sewer system (MS4) are subject to
higher levels of pollutants that enter into receiving water bodies and
adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare by impacting
water quality, creating nuisances, impairing other beneficial uses of
environmental resources, and hindering the ability of the City of Cottage Grove
to provide adequate water, sewage, flood control, and other community services.
   B.   The purpose of this Chapter is to promote, preserve and enhance the
natural resources within the City of Cottage Grove and protect them from
adverse effects occasioned by non-stormwater discharges by regulating
discharges that would have an adverse and potentially irreversible impact on
water quality and environmentally sensitive land.
   C.   The intent of this Chapter is to promote the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of Cottage Grove, Minnesota, by requiring
illicit discharge management practices for all discharge activities.
§ 8-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP): Practices to prevent or reduce the
pollution of the waters of the state, including schedules of activities,
prohibitions of practices, and other management practices, and also includes
treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control plant
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge, or waste disposal or drainage from raw
material storage.
   DISCHARGE: The addition; including, but not limited to, introducing,
releasing, leaking, spilling, casting, throwing, or emitting; of any pollutant
to the waters of the state or to any disposal system.
   GROUND WATER: Water contained below the surface of the earth in the
saturated zone including, without limitation, all waters whether under
confined, unconfined, or perched conditions, in near surface unconsolidated
sediment or regolith, or in rock formations deeper underground.
   ILLICIT CONNECTION: Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or
subsurface, which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm sewer system
including, but not limited to, any conveyances that allow any non-stormwater
discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water and any
connections to the storm sewer system from indoor drains and sinks, regardless
of whether said drain or connection had been previously allowed, permitted, or
approved by a City; or
   Any drain or conveyance connected from a residential, commercial, or
industrial land use to the storm drain system that has not been documented in
plans, maps, or equivalent records and approved by a City.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE: Any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the
municipal separate storm sewer system, except as exempted in subsection
8-2-5.B.1 of this Chapter.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY: Activities subject to NPDES industrial stormwater
permits as defined in 40 CFR Section 122.26(b)(14).
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4): The system of conveyances
(including sidewalks, roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch
basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade channels, or storm drains) owned and
operated by the City and designed or used for collecting or conveying
stormwater, and which is not used for collecting or conveying sewage.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES): The program for
issuing, modifying, revoking, reissuing, terminating, monitoring, and enforcing
permits under the Clean Water Act (Sections 301, 318, 402, and 405) and United
States Code of Federal Regulations Title 33, Sections 1317, 1328, 1342, and
1345 authorizing the discharge of pollutants to waters of the State.
   NONSTORMWATER: Discharge not composed entirely of stormwater.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, franchise,
association or governmental entity recognized by law and acting as either the
owner or as the owner’s agent.
   POLLUTANT: Anything that causes or contributes to pollution, including any
sewage, industrial waste, hazardous waste, or other wastes discharged into a
disposal system or to waters of the State.
   POLLUTE: To discharge pollutants into waters of the State.
   POLLUTION: The direct or indirect addition of pollutants into waters of the
State.
   STORM SEWER SYSTEM: Conveyance or system of conveyances that is owned and
operated by the City or other entity and designed or used for collecting or
conveying stormwater.
   STORMWATER: Precipitation runoff, stormwater runoff, snowmelt runoff, and
any other water surface runoff and drainage.
   SURFACE WATER: All waters of the state other than groundwaters, which
include ponds, lakes, rivers, streams, wetlands, public ditches, tax ditches,
and public drainage systems except those designed and used to collect, convey,
or dispose of sanitary sewage.
   WATERS OF THE STATE: Streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or border upon the State or any portion thereof.
§ 8-2-3: APPLICABILITY:
   Applicability: This Chapter shall apply to all water entering the storm
sewer system generated on any developed and undeveloped land unless explicitly
exempted by the City.
§ 8-2-4: MINIMUM STANDARDS:
   The standards set forth in this Chapter and promulgated pursuant to this
Chapter are minimum standards. This Chapter does not intend or imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, or unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
§ 8-2-5: STORMWATER AND URBAN RUNOFF CONTROL:
   A.   Illegal Disposal and Dumping:
      1.   No person shall throw, deposit, place, leave, maintain, keep, or
otherwise discharge or allow others to discharge any substance into the MS4 or
the storm sewer system or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, storm drain, inlet,
catch basin, conduit or drainage structure, business place, or upon any public
or private plot of land, so that the same is or will become a pollutant, except
in containers, recycling bags, or other lawfully established waste disposal
facilities.
      2.   No person shall intentionally dispose of grass, leaves, dirt, or
landscape material into the storm sewer system or into a water resource,
buffer, street, road, alley, catch basin, culvert, inlet, ditch, natural
watercourse, flood control channel, canal, storm drain or any stormwater
system.
   B.   Illicit Discharges and Connections:
      1.   No person shall cause or allow others under its control to cause any
illicit discharge to
enter the MS4 or any surface water unless such discharge:
         a.   Consists of non-stormwater that is authorized by an NPDES point
source permit obtained from the MPCA;
         b.   Is associated with firefighting activities or other activities
necessary to protect public health and safety; or
         c.   Is one (1) of the following exempt discharges: water line
flushing or other potable water sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering,
diverted stream flows, rising ground water, ground water infiltration to storm
drains, uncontaminated pumped ground water, foundation or footing drains (but
not active ground water dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air
conditioning condensation, springs, noncommercial washing of vehicles, natural
riparian habitat or wetland flows, dechlorinated swimming pools, and any other
water discharge not containing pollutants.
      2.   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the authorized enforcement authority prior to the time of the
test.
      3.   No person shall use any illicit connections to intentionally convey
non-stormwater into the storm sewer system.
      4.   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit
connections to the storm sewer system is prohibited. This prohibition expressly
includes, without limitation, illicit connections made in the past, regardless
of whether the connection was permissible under law or practices applicable or
prevailing at the time of connection.
      5.   A person is considered to be in violation of this Chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4 or allows such a connection
to continue.
   C.   Good Housekeeping Provisions: Any owner or occupant of property within
the City shall comply with the following good housekeeping requirements:
      1.   Chemical or Septic Waste: No person shall leave, deposit, discharge,
dump, or otherwise expose any chemical or septic waste in an area where
discharge to streets or the storm sewer system or MS4 may occur. This section
shall apply to both actual and potential discharges.
         a.   Individual septic systems must be maintained to protect the
public health, safety, and general welfare and to prevent failure, which has
the potential to pollute surface water.
         b.   Recreational vehicle sewage shall be disposed to a proper
sanitary waste facility. Waste should not be discharged in an area where
drainage to streets or the storm sewer system may occur.
         c.   For chlorinated pools, water should sit seven (7) days without
the addition of chlorine (to allow for the evaporation of chlorine) before
discharge.
      2.   Runoff of Water from Residential, Commercial, and Industrial
Property: Runoff of water from residential property shall be minimized to the
maximum extent practicable. Runoff of water from the washing down of paved
areas in commercial or industrial property is prohibited unless necessary for
health or safety purposes and not in violation of any other provisions in this
Code.
      3.   Mobile Washing Companies: Mobile washing companies, including, but
not limited to, carpet cleaning, and mobile vehicle washing, shall dispose of
wastewater to the sanitary sewer. Wastewater from these company activities
should not be discharged where drainage to streets or a storm sewer system may
occur.
      4.   Storage of Materials, Machinery, and Equipment:
         a.   Objects, such as motor vehicle parts, containing grease, oil or
other hazardous substances, and unsealed receptacles containing hazardous
materials shall not be stored in areas susceptible to runoff or drainage into
the storm sewer system or MS4.
         b.   Any machinery or equipment that is to be repaired or maintained
in areas susceptible to runoff or drainage shall be placed in a confined area
to contain leaks, spills, or discharges.
         c.   Any deicing materials including deicing salt or grit material
mixed with deicing salt shall be stored such that it is covered or indoors and
located on impervious surfaces. In addition, practices and procedures shall be
put in place for transferring material in the designated storage area to
minimize exposure of the material to stormwater.
      5.   Debris and Residue: Debris and residue shall be removed, as noted
below:
         a.   All motor vehicle parking lots; including, but not limited to,
commercial, nonprofit organization, and multi-family residential parking lots;
and private streets should be swept, at a minimum of twice a year, once in the
spring and once in the fall, to remove debris. Such debris should be collected
and properly disposed.
         b.   Fuel and chemical residue or other types of potentially harmful
material, such as animal waste, garbage or batteries shall be removed as soon
as possible and properly disposed.
         c.   Household hazardous waste may be disposed of through the county
collection program or at any other appropriate disposal site and shall not be
placed in a trash container.
   D.   Industrial Activity Discharges: Any person subject to an industrial
activity NPDES stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of
such permit. Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form
acceptable to the City prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4. All
facilities that have stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity
must adhere to the following guideline:
      1.   Any person responsible for a property or premises, which is, or may
be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at said
person’s expense, additional structural and nonstructural BMPs to prevent the
further discharge of pollutants to the MS4. These BMPs shall be part of a storm
water pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) as necessary for compliance with
requirements of the NPDES permit.
   E.   Notifications of Spills: Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as
soon as any person responsible for a facility or operation, or responsible for
emergency response for a facility or operation has information of any known or
suspected release of materials which are resulting or may result in illicit
discharges or pollutants discharging into stormwater, the storm sewer system,
the MS4, or waters of the state, said person shall take all necessary steps to
ensure the discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of
such a release of hazardous materials, said person shall immediately notify
emergency response agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services.
In the event of a release of nonhazardous materials, said person shall notify
the City no later than the next business day. If the discharge of prohibited
materials emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or
operator of such establishment shall also retain an onsite written record of
the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records
shall be retained for at least three (3) years. Failure to provide notification
of a release as provided herein is a violation of this Chapter.
   F.   Access To Buildings for Inspection, Monitoring, and/or Dye Testing:
      1.   This section applies to commercial, industrial, and residential
buildings and facilities.
      2.   The City shall be permitted to enter and inspect all buildings under
this Chapter as often as may be necessary to determine compliance with this
Chapter. If a building has security measures in force that require proper
identification and clearance before entry into the premises, the owner or its
designee shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to the City.
      3.   Facility operators shall allow the City ready access to all parts of
the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, dye testing, examination
and copying of records that relate to the discharge of stormwater.
      4.   The City shall have the right to set up at any building such devices
as are necessary in the opinion of the City to conduct monitoring, sampling, or
dye testing of the facility’s stormwater discharge.
      5.   The City has the right to require the discharger to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the discharger at its own expense.
      6.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the City and shall not be replaced.
The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the operator.
      7.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the City access to a facility are a
violation of this Chapter.
   G.   Requirement to Prevent, Control, and Reduce Stormwater Pollutants by
the Use of Best Management Practices: The City will adopt requirements
identifying best management practices for any activity, operation, or facility
which may cause or contribute to pollution or contamination of stormwater, the
storm sewer system, or waters of the state. The owner or operator of such
activity, operation, or facility, shall provide, at their own expense,
reasonable protection from accidental discharge or prohibited materials or
other wastes into the municipal storm sewer system through the use of these
structural and nonstructural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a
property or premises that is, or may be, the source of illicit discharge, may
be required to implement, at said person’s expense, additional structural and
nonstructural BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the MS4.
These BMPs shall be part of a storm water management plan (SWMP) as necessary
for compliance with the requirements of the NPDES permit.
   H.   Watercourse Protection: Every person owning property through which a
watercourse passes, or such person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part
of the watercourse within the property free of trash, debris, excessive
vegetation, and other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or
significantly retard the flow of water through the watercourse. The owner or
lessee shall maintain existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to
a watercourse, so that such structures will not become a hazard to the use,
function, or physical integrity of the watercourse.
   I.   Suspension of Storm Sewer System Access:
      1.   Suspension Due to Illicit Discharges in Emergency Situations: The
City may, without prior notice, suspend storm sewer system discharge access to
a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened
discharge that presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the
environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of
the state. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an
emergency, the City may take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or
minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the state, or to minimize danger to
persons.
      2.   Suspension Due to the Detection of Illicit Discharge: Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this Chapter may have their MS4 access
terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The
City will notify a violator of the proposed termination of its MS4 access.
   J.   Enforcement:
      1.   Notice of Violation: Whenever the City finds that a person has
violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this Chapter, the
City may order compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible
person. Such notice may require, without limitation:
         a.   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
         b.   The elimination of illicit connections or illicit discharges;
         c.   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease
and desist;
         d.   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
         e.   The payment of administrative and remediation costs; and
         f.   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
      2.   Deadline For Remediation or Restoration: If abatement of a violation
or restoration of affected property is required, the notice shall set forth a
deadline within which such remediation or restoration must be completed. Said
notice shall further advise that, should the violator fail to remediate or
restore within the established deadline, the work will be done by a designated
governmental agency or a contractor and the expense thereof shall be charged to
the violator.
      3.   Appeal: Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the
determination pursuant to City Code Section
1-3-4.
      4.   Collection of Charges: If the bill received for abatement or
restoration is not paid within thirty (30) days, the City may draw the amount
of the bill from any financial guarantees the City may hold or may assess the
property from which the violation occurred or is occurring. After notice and
hearing as provided pursuant to Minnesota Statutes Section 429.061, the City
Council may then spread the charges against the property benefited as a special
assessment under Minnesota Statutes Section 429.101, for certification to the
County Auditor and collection along with the current taxes the following year
or in annual installations not exceeding ten (10) years as the City Council may
determine in each case.
      5.   If Violation is Not Corrected: Violations that are not corrected
shall be subject to abatement pursuant to City Code Section
4-1-6.
   K.   Compensatory Action: In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and
remedies authorized by this Chapter, the City may impose alternative
compensatory actions upon a violator, such as storm drain stenciling,
attendance at compliance workshops, stormwater pond cleanup, or related
activities.
TITLE 9: BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1: BUILDING CODE
Section
9-1-1: State Code Adopted
§ 9-1-1: STATE CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Building Code: The Minnesota State Building Code as adopted by the
Commissioner of Administration pursuant to Minnesota Statutes Sections 326B.101
to 326B.16, including all of the amendments, rules and regulations established,
adopted, and published from time to time by the Minnesota Commissioner of
Administration, through the building codes and standards division is hereby
adopted by reference with the exception of the optional chapters, unless
specifically adopted in this Code. The Minnesota State Building Code is hereby
incorporated as if fully set out herein.
   B.   Application, Administration, and Enforcement: The application,
administration, and enforcement of the Code shall be in accordance with the
Minnesota State Building Code. The Code shall be enforced within the
extraterritorial limits permitted by Minnesota Statutes Section 326B.121,
subdivision 1, when so established by this Code. A Minnesota Certified Building
Official designated by the City is authorized to administer the Minnesota State
Building Code.
   C.   Permits and Fees: The issuance of permits and the collection of fees
shall be as authorized in Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 326B.
CHAPTER 2: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
9-2-1: Policy; Purpose; Objective
9-2-2: Adoption of International Property Maintenance Code
9-2-3: Application of Provisions
9-2-4: Duties of Owners and Occupants of All Structures
§ 9-2-1: POLICY; PURPOSE; OBJECTIVE:
   A.   Policy: It is the policy of the City to enhance the supply of safe,
sanitary, and adequate structures and living conditions for its citizens and to
prevent the deterioration of the existing structures in the City.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this Chapter is to carry out the policy stated
in subsection A of this Section by establishing minimum standards and
procedures for their enforcement consistent with the right to personal privacy,
for the protection of life, limb, health, property, safety and welfare of the
general public.
   C.   Objectives: The objectives of this Chapter include, but are not limited
to, the following:
      1.   Protection and preservation of the stability and character of all
areas within the City.
      2.   The prevention and correction of conditions that adversely affect
the life, safety, health and general well-being of owners, managers, and
occupants of structures in the City.
      3.   The establishment of minimum standards for light, space,
ventilation, cooling, heating, sanitation, protection from the elements, life
safety, safety from fire and other hazards, and for the safe and sanitary
maintenance necessary to ensure the health and safety of owners, managers, and
occupants of structures in the City.
      4.   The establishment of minimum standards for the maintenance of rented
single and multi-family dwellings, both owner-occupied and non-owner occupied
dwellings.
      5.   The prevention of all blighted and deteriorating structures in the
City.
      6.   The preservation of the value of land and all structures in the
City.
§ 9-2-2: ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
   Except as modified or amended by the Minnesota State Building Code (or as it
may be amended) or by City ordinance, or by this Chapter, the most current
edition of the International Property Maintenance Code (“IPMC”) is adopted by
reference and is made a part of this City Code as if fully set out at length.
One (1) copy of the IPMC, together with a copy of this Chapter, each marked
“Official Copy”, must be kept on file at City Hall and be available for public
inspection. The following provisions of the IPMC are modified or clarified as
follows:
   A.   References to plumbing, mechanical, fire, and electrical codes shall be
replaced by current Minnesota State-adopted plumbing, mechanical, fire, and
electrical codes.
   B.   Section 101.2 is replaced as follows: Scope. The provisions of this
Code shall apply to all residential rental structures and premises and
constitute minimum requirements and standards for premises, structures,
equipment and facilities for light, ventilation, space, heating, sanitation,
protection from the elements, life safety, safety from fire and other hazards,
and for safety and sanitary maintenance; for the responsibility of owners,
managers and occupants, for the occupancy of existing structures and premises
and for the administration and enforcement of this Code.
   C.   The following sections are deleted: Sections 102.3 (Application of
other codes), 103 (Department of Property Maintenance Inspection), 104 (Duties
and Powers of the Code Official), 106 (Violations), 107 (Notices and Orders),
109 (Emergency Measures), 110 (Demolition), 111 (Means of Appeal).
   D.   Section 102.7.1 is replaced as follows: Conflicts. Where conflicts
occur between provisions of the International Property Maintenance Code and the
Minnesota State Building Code, the provisions of the Minnesota State Building
Code shall apply. Where conflicts occur between the provisions of the IPMC and
City Code, the provisions of the City Code shall apply.
   E.   In Section 202 (General Definitions), the following definitions are
deleted: Exterior Property, Garbage, Inoperable Motor Vehicle, Rubbish, Yard.
   F.   In Section 202 (General Definitions), the following definitions are
replaced with the definitions in Section
11-1-3 of the City Code: Dwelling Unit, Lot, Owner, Structure.
   G.   The following sections are deleted: Sections 302.1 (Sanitation), 302.3
(Sidewalks and Driveways), 302.4 (Weeds), 302.7 (Accessory Structures), 302.8
(Motor Vehicles), 302.9 (Defacement of Property), 303 (Swimming Pools, Spas and
Hot Tubs), 304.3 (Exterior Structures - Premises Identification), 308 (Rubbish
and Garbage).
   H.   Insect screens: Insect screens are required from April 1 to October 31.
   I.   Heat Supply: Heat shall be supplied from September 1 to May 31.
§ 9-2-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Generally: This Code applies to all principal structures, their
premises, and accessory structures thereto.
   B.   Existing Structures:
      1.   All structures must conform to this Chapter. A building need not be
altered or changed to exceed the requirements of the Building Code in effect at
the time of its construction, except in the following cases:
         a.   If the structure is altered or enlarged pursuant to the State
Building Code;
         b.   If the structure is moved or relocated;
         c.   If the structure is determined to be unsafe or hazardous by the
Housing Official pursuant to the State Building Code or State law; or
         d.   If a change in use has occurred.
      2.   Occupancy in structures lawfully existing under the Building Code
may be continued under this Code.
§ 9-2-4: DUTIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS OF ALL STRUCTURES:
   A.   Sanitation:
      1.   The occupant of a structure must maintain their occupied part of the
structure and yard in a clean and sanitary condition, and is responsible for
the occupant’s own misuse of any common areas.
      2.   The owner or operator of a multi-family dwelling must maintain the
shared or public areas of the complex in a clean and sanitary condition.
      3.   The owner or occupant of a dwelling unit must keep all mechanical
equipment and appliances, including furnace, water heater, plumbing fixtures,
air conditioner, stove, refrigerator, dishwasher, and the like, in a clean and
sanitary condition and is responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in
their proper use and operation.
   B.   Removal of Waste Matter:
      1.   The occupant of a structure must dispose of rubbish, debris, garbage
and other organic waste in a clean and sanitary manner as provided by Section
4-2-10 of the City Code.
      2.   The owner or operator of a multi-family dwelling is responsible for
the clean and sanitary maintenance of common storage or disposal facilities and
must dispose of rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner as provided in City Code
Section
4-2-10.
   C.   Appliances and Equipment: The owner or operator of all structures must
make all necessary provisions for the safe operation or repair of all faulty or
inoperable mechanical equipment and appliances. This includes smoke detectors
and carbon monoxide detectors.
   D.   Pest Extermination:
      1.   The occupant or owner of a structure is responsible for the
extermination of insects, vermin infestations or rodents on the premises.
      2.   The owner of any multi-family dwelling is responsible for such
extermination when in the opinion of the Housing Official, the dwelling unit is
infested or requires extermination.
      3.   After extermination, it is the responsibility of the owner to
correct such maintenance or other problems as designated by the Housing
Official to eliminate the source of the infestation.
   E.   Utilities: Except as otherwise provided by law, an owner, operator, or
occupant may not cause service equipment or utility service that is required by
this Code to be removed, shut off or discontinued for any occupied structure
let or occupied by that person, except for such temporary interruption as may
be necessary while actual repairs or alterations are in process or during
temporary emergencies.
   F.   Notice of Maximum Occupancy: An owner or operator must advise the
occupant, in writing, by insertion in the lease between the parties or
otherwise, of the maximum number of occupants permitted.
   G.   Transfer of Responsibility: A contract between owner and operator,
operator and occupant, or owner and occupant, with regard to compliance with
this Code, does not relieve the owner of a duty imposed by this Code.
CHAPTER 3: BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES; FEES
Section
9-3-1: Building Permits
9-3-2: Use or Occupancy
9-3-3: Inspections
9-3-4: Fees
§ 9-3-1: BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required; Authority to Issue: No person, firm, or corporation
shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, convert, or
demolish any building or structure in the City or cause the same to be done
without first obtaining a separate building permit for each such building or
structure from the Building Official. The Building Official shall have the
authority to issue permits for the moving, demolition, erecting, enlargement or
alteration of all buildings or structures.
   B.   Exceptions: Permits shall not be required for minor remodeling or
alteration work, provided a record of such work has been filed with and
approved by the Building Inspection Division, and the construction shall not
increase the physical size, create a room, or alter the structural framework of
the existing building.
   C.   Application for Permit: To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first
file an application in writing, on a form designated by the City for that
purpose. Every such application shall:
      1.   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is made.
      2.   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done, by lot,
block, tract, and house and street address, or similar description that will
readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or work.
      3.   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended.
      4.   Be accompanied by plans and specifications as required in subsection
D of this Section.
      5.   State the valuation of the proposed work.
      6.   Be signed by the permittee, and property owner if they are
different, or an authorized agent, who may be required to submit evidence to
indicate such authority.
      7.   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
Building Official.
   D.   Plans and Specifications:
      1.   Plans and Specifications Required; Exceptions:
         a.   For a residential building permit application, one (1) set of
full-size plans and a certificate of survey prepared by a land surveyor showing
the building elevations and site drainage conforming to the grading plans for
the project, and if there are no drainage plans, a proposed drainage/run-off
shall be reflected. One (1) digital copy of all plans and the survey shall also
be provided.
         b.   For commercial and industrial permit applications, one (1) set of
full-size plans and specifications and a certificate of survey by a registered
land surveyor showing the building elevations and site drainage conforming to
the grading plans for the project, and if there are no drainage plans, a
proposed drainage/run-off shall be reflected. One (1) digital copy of all plans
and specifications and the survey shall also be provided.
         c.   When authorized by the Building Official, plans and
specifications need not be submitted for minor remodeling or alteration work;
provided, that the work which is proposed does not involve work which can
affect the safety of either the occupants or the public.
      2.   Information on Plans and Specifications: Plans and specifications
shall be drawn to scale upon paper and shall be of sufficient clarity to
indicate the nature and extent of the work proposed and show in detail that it
will conform to the provisions of the Building Code and all relevant laws,
ordinances, rules, and regulations. The first sheet of each set of plans shall
give the house and street address of the proposed work and the name and address
of the property owner and person who prepared them. Plans shall include a plot
plan showing the location of the proposed building and of every existing
building on the property. In lieu of detailed specifications, the Building
Official may approve references on the plans to a specific section or part of
the Building Code or other ordinances or laws. Computation, stress diagrams,
and other data sufficient to show the correctness of the plans shall be
submitted when required by the Building Official.
      3.   Retention of Plans: One (1) set of approved plans, specifications,
and computations shall be retained by the Building Official for a period of not
less than one (1) year from date of completion of the work covered therein for
residential permits and not less than fifteen (15) years from the date of
completion of the work covered therein for commercial and industrial permits.
One (1) set of approved plans, specifications, and computations shall be kept
on such building or work at all times during which the work authorized thereby
is in progress. Plans submitted for which no permit is issued and on which no
action is taken by the applicant for ninety (90) days shall be returned to the
last known address of the applicant; to renew action on said plans and payment
of a new plan-check fee shall be required.
   E.   Issuance of Permit:
      1.   The application, plans, and specifications filed by an applicant for
a permit shall be checked by the Building Official. Such plans may be reviewed
by other departments of the City to check compliance with the laws and
ordinances under their jurisdiction. If the Building Official is satisfied that
the work described in an application for permit and the plans filed therewith
conform to the requirements of the Building Code and other pertinent laws and
ordinances, and that the fees specified have been paid, a permit shall issue
therefor to the applicant.
      2.   When the Building Official issues the permit, all received copies of
plans and specifications shall be endorsed in writing or stamp as “APPROVED”.
Such approved plans and specifications shall not be changed, modified, or
altered without authorization from the Building Official, and all work shall be
done in accordance with the approved plans.
      3.   The Building Official may issue a permit for the construction of
part of a building or structure before the entire plans and specifications for
the whole building or structure have been submitted or approved, provided
adequate information and detailed statements have been filed complying with all
pertinent requirements of the Building Code. The holder of such permit shall
proceed at own risk without assurance that the permit for the entire building
or structure will be granted.
   F.   Denial of Permits; Appeals: In any instance where a building permit or
a request for a preliminary approval is denied, the applicant shall be entitled
to an appeal of the denial. The appeal shall be heard by the City Council
sitting as a board of review at any regular or special meeting. The applicant
may present any additional information deemed pertinent, which shall be
considered by the City Council, together with the original application and all
papers submitted therewith. The City Council, as board of review, shall issue
its findings and conclusions within thirty (30) days after such review hearing.
   G.   Validity:
      1.   The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of plans and
specifications shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of,
any violation of any of the provisions of the Building Code. No permit
presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of the Building
Code shall be valid, except insofar as the work or use which it authorizes is
lawful.
      2.   The issuance of a permit based on plans and specifications shall not
prevent the Building Official from thereafter requiring the correction of
errors in said plans and specifications or from preventing building operations
being carried on thereunder when in violation of the Building Code or of any
other ordinance of the City.
   H.   Expiration of Permit:
      1.   Every permit issued by the Building Official under the provisions of
this Section shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the
building or work authorized by such permit is not commenced within one hundred
eighty (180) days from the date of such permit, or if the building or work
authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned at any time after the work
is commenced for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days. Before such work
can be recommenced, a new permit must be obtained, and the fee therefor shall
be one-half (½) the amount required for a new permit for such work, provided no
changes have been made or will be made in the original plans and specifications
for such work, and provided that such suspension or abandonment has not
exceeded one (1) year.
      2.   The exterior of any building shall be completed within one hundred
eighty (180) days of start of construction. No occupancy or use of a structure
shall be allowed until the exterior is completed and all necessary inspections
conducted. In the case of a demonstrated hardship, the Building Official may
allow for an extension of time to complete the exterior. No extension shall
exceed one hundred eighty (180) days.
   I.   Suspension or Revocation of Permit: The Building Official may, in
writing, suspend or revoke a permit issued under this Section whenever the
permit is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect information supplied or
in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of this
Section.
§ 9-3-2: USE OR OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Certificate of Occupancy:
      1.   Certificate Required: No building or structure shall be used or
occupied, and no change in the existing occupancy classification of a building
or structure or portion thereof shall be made until the Building Official has
issued a certificate of occupancy therefor as provided in the Building Code.
      2.   Issuance of Certificate; Conditions: After final inspection when it
is found that the building or structure complies with the provisions of the
Building Code and an as built survey has been submitted, the Building Official
shall issue a certificate of occupancy in a form that conforms with Minnesota
Rules Part 1300.0220.
      3.   Temporary Certificate: A temporary certificate of occupancy may be
issued by the Building Official for the use of a portion or portions of a
building or structure prior to the completion of the entire building or
structure and submittal of an as built survey provided that the portion or
portions shall be occupied safely. The Building Official shall set a time
period during which the temporary certificate of occupancy is valid.
   B.   Change In Use: Changes in the character or use of a building shall not
be made except as specified in the Building Code.
§ 9-3-3: INSPECTIONS:
   All construction or work for which a permit is required shall be subject to
inspection by the Building Official, and certain types of construction shall
have continuous inspection by special inspectors, as specified in subsection B
of this Section.
   A.   Inspections Generally:
      1.   Lot Survey: A survey of the lot may be required by the Building
Official to verify compliance of the structure with approved plans.
      2.   Inspection Record Card: Work requiring a building permit shall not
be commenced until the permit holder or agent shall have posted an inspection
record card in a conspicuous place on the front premises and in such position
as to allow the Building Official convenient access to make the required
entries thereon regarding inspection of the work. This card shall be maintained
in such position by the permit holder until the certificate of occupancy has
been issued.
      3.   Approvals Required: No work shall be done on any part of the
building or structure beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection
without first obtaining the written approval of the Building Official. Such
written approval shall be given only after an inspection shall have been made
of each successive step in the construction as indicated by each of the
inspections required in subsection A4 of this Section. There shall be a final
inspection and approval on all buildings when completed and ready for
occupancy.
      4.   Required Inspections:
         a.   Reinforcing steel or structural framework of any part of any
building or structure shall not be covered or concealed without first obtaining
the approval of the Building Official.
         b.   The Building Official, upon notification from the permit holder
or agent, shall make the following inspections and shall either approve that
portion of the construction as completed or shall notify the permit holder or
agent wherein the same fails to comply with the Building Code:
            (1)   Footings Inspection: To be made after trenches are excavated
and forms erected and when all materials for the footings are delivered on the
job. Where concrete from a central mixing plant (commonly termed “transit
mixed”) is to be used, materials need not be on the job.
            (2)   Foundation Inspection: To be made after the footings and
foundation walls are completed and dampproofed and before backfill material is
placed against foundation.
            (3)   Frame Inspection: To be made after the roof, all framing,
fireblocking, and bracing are in place and all pipes, chimneys and vents are
complete.
            (4)   Insulation Inspection: To be made before sheet rock work
commences.
            (5)   Lath and/or Wallboard Inspection: To be made after all
lathing and/or wallboard, interior and exterior, is in place, but before any
plastering is applied or before wallboard joints and fasteners are taped and
finished.
            (6)   Final Inspection: To be made after building is completed and
ready for occupancy.
         c.   In addition to the called inspections specified above, the
Building Official may make or require any other inspections of any construction
work to ascertain compliance with the provisions of the Building Code and other
laws which are enforced by the Building Inspection Division.
         d.   For the purpose of determining compliance with the Building Code,
the Building Official may cause any structure to be reinspected.
   B.   Special Inspections:
      1.   Special Inspections Enumerated: In addition to the inspections to be
made as specified in subsection A of this Section, the owner or agent shall
employ a special inspector who shall be present at all times during
construction on the following types of work:
         a.   Concrete: On concrete work when the design is based on an “f” in
excess of two thousand (2,000) pounds.
         b.   Masonry: On masonry work which shall have special inspection when
required by the Building Official.
         c.   Welding: On all structural welding.
         d.   Reinforced Gypsum Concrete: When cast-in-place reinforced gypsum
concrete is being mixed or deposited.
         e.   Special Cases: On special construction or work involving unusual
hazards or requiring constant inspection.
      2.   Special Inspector: The Special Inspector shall be a qualified person
approved by the Building Official and shall furnish continuous inspection on
the special construction or work. The Special Inspector shall report to the
Building Official, in writing, noting all Building Code violations and other
information as required.
      3.   Exemptions:
         a.   The Building Official may waive the requirement for the
employment of a Special Inspector if the Building Official finds that the
construction or work is such that no unusual hazard exists.
         b.   Special inspections required by this Section and elsewhere in the
Building Code shall not be required where the work is done on the premises of a
fabricator approved by the Building Official to perform such work without
special inspection. The certificate of approval shall be subject to revocation
by the Building Official if it is found that any work done pursuant to the
approval is in violation of the Building Code.
§ 9-3-4: FEES:
   A.   Building Permit Fees: Building permit fees shall be established in the
City’s fee ordinance. No permit as required by this Chapter shall be issued
until the fees prescribed by said ordinance have been paid, nor shall an
amendment to a permit be approved until the additional fees, if any, due to an
increase in the estimated cost of the building or structure have been paid.
   B.   Plan Checking Fees:
      1.   When a plan check is required, a plan checking fee computed
according to the uniform Building Code shall be charged by the City.
      2.   Where plans are incomplete or changed so as to require additional
plan checking, or the City incurs costs due to the plan check over the amount
specified, an additional plan check fee shall be charged at a rate established
by the Building Official.
      3.   Plans for all proposed buildings shall be prepared by an architect
registered by the state board of architecture, engineering, land surveying,
landscape architecture, geoscience and interior design as required by Minnesota
Statutes Section 326.02 et seq.
      4.   The plan checking fee shall be paid by the applicant to the City
prior to issuance of a building permit by the Building Official.
   C.   Service Availability Charge: Applicants for building permits for all
new residential, commercial or industrial construction within the metropolitan
sewer service area shall be required to pay a sewer service availability charge
(“SAC”) in accordance with a schedule which shall be established by the
Metropolitan Council Environmental Services from time to time, said charge to
be payable at the time of the issuance of a building permit.
   D.   Determination of Value: The determination of value or valuation under
any of the provisions of the Building Code shall be determined by using the
most current estimate of construction costs as furnished by the Minnesota State
Building Code Division.
   E.   Exemptions From Fees: All proposed buildings which shall be wholly
owned by a governmental unit or political subdivision shall be exempt from the
building permit fees and plan checking fee, provided the designing architect or
engineer shall submit evidence to the Building Official to substantiate that
the provisions of this Chapter will be and are followed when such provisions
are applicable.
CHAPTER 4: ELECTRICAL CODE
Section
9-4-1: Application of Provisions
9-4-2: Definition
9-4-3: Installation Standards
9-4-4: Permit Requirements
9-4-5: Electrical Inspector
9-4-6: Inspections
§ 9-4-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to all installations of
electrical conductors, fittings, devices, and fixtures, hereinafter referred to
as “electrical equipment”, within or on public buildings and premises.
§ 9-4-2: DEFINITION:
   As used in this Chapter, “reasonably safe to persons and property”, as
applied to electrical installations and electrical equipment, means safe to use
in the service for which the installation or equipment is intended without
unnecessary hazard to life, limb, or property.
§ 9-4-3: INSTALLATION STANDARDS:
   A.   General Standards: All installations of electrical equipment shall be
reasonably safe to persons and property and in conformity with the provisions
of this Chapter, the applicable statutes of the State and all orders, rules and
regulations issued by authority thereof.
   B.   Compliance with Electrical Code: Conformity of installations of
electrical equipment with applicable regulations set forth in the most current
edition of the National Electrical Code.
§ 9-4-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Exemptions: No electrical equipment shall be installed
within or on any building, structure or premises, publicly owned, nor shall any
alteration or addition be made in any such existing equipment without first
securing a permit therefor from the Electrical Inspector except that no permit
will be required to execute any of the following classes of electrical work:
      1.   The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to installations used
by electrical supply or communication agencies in the generation, transmission,
or distribution of electricity or for the operation of signals or the
transmission of intelligence, and located within or on buildings or premises
used exclusively by such agency or on public thoroughfares.
      2.   Public service corporations shall not be required to obtain permits
or inspection for work upon or in connection with their own properties.
      3.   Manufacturers shall not be required to obtain permits or inspection
for work incorporated within equipment as a part of product manufacturing.
      4.   Permits shall be granted only to holders of master electricians’
licenses who are registered and bonded by the State; except, that licensed
journeymen electricians and qualified apprentices may wire their own property
and be granted a permit to do same hereunder.
   B.   State License Required: Every applicant for permit in the City shall
furnish a certificate from the State Board of Electricity stating that they
have passed the examination as master electrician as prescribed by such Board
and that they hold a master electrician’s State license.
   C.   Application for Permit; Issuance: Application for a permit under this
Chapter, describing the work to be done, shall be made in writing to the
Electrical Inspector by the person installing the work. The application shall
be accompanied by such plans, specifications and schedules as may be necessary
to determine whether the installation as described will be in conformity with
the requirements of this Chapter. If it shall be found that the installation as
described will conform with all legal requirements and if the applicant has
complied with all provisions of this Chapter, a permit for such installation
shall be issued.
   D.   Deviation from Installation Procedures: No deviation may be made from
the installation prescribed in the permit without the written approval of the
Electrical Inspector.
§ 9-4-5: ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR:
   A.   Duties and Powers: It shall be the duty of the Electrical Inspector to
enforce the provisions of this Chapter. The Electrical Inspector shall, upon
application, grant permits for the installation or alteration of electrical
equipment and shall make inspections of electrical installations all as
provided in this Chapter. The Electrical Inspector shall keep complete records
of all permits as provided in this Chapter and shall keep complete records of
all permits issued, inspections and reinspections made and other official work
performed in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. They shall also
keep on file a list of inspected electrical equipment issued by or for
Underwriters’ Laboratories, Inc., which list shall be accessible for the public
reference during regular office hours.
   B.   Dangerous Conditions: When any electrical equipment is found by the
Electrical Inspector to be dangerous to persons or property because it is
defective or defectively installed, the person responsible for the electrical
equipment shall be notified in writing and shall make any changes or repairs
required in the judgment of the Electrical Inspector or place such equipment in
safe condition, and if such work is not completed within fifteen (15) days or
any longer period that may be specified by the Electrical Inspector in such
notice, the Electrical Inspector shall have the authority to disconnect or
order the discontinuance of electric service to such electrical equipment. In
cases of emergency, where necessary for safety to persons or property or where
electrical equipment may interfere with the work of the Fire Division, the
Electrical Inspector shall have the authority to disconnect or cause the
disconnection immediately of any electrical equipment.
§ 9-4-6: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Notice of Inspection: Upon the completion of any installation of
electrical equipment which has been made under a permit, it shall be the duty
of the person making the installation to notify the Electrical Inspector that
the installation is ready for inspection.
   B.   Certificate of Approval:
      1.   Issuance of Certificate: Where the Electrical Inspector finds the
installation to be in conformity with the provisions of this Chapter, the
Inspector shall issue a certificate of approval, with duplicate copy for
delivery to the owner authorizing the use of the installation and connection to
the supply of electricity, and shall send written notice of such authorization
to the agency supplying the electric service.
      2.   Temporary Certificate of Approval: When a certificate of approval is
issued authorizing the connection and use of a temporary installation, such
certificate shall be issued to expire at a time to be stated therein.
   C.   Concealed Equipment: When any electrical equipment is to be hidden from
view by the permanent placement of parts of the building, the person installing
the equipment shall notify the Electrical Inspector, and such equipment shall
not be concealed until it has been inspected and approved by the Electrical
Inspector or until twenty-four (24) hours, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays, shall have elapsed from the time of such notification; provided, that
on large installations, where the concealment of equipment proceeds
continuously, the person installing the electrical equipment shall give the
Electrical Inspector due notice, and inspections shall be made periodically
during the progress of the work.
   D.   Work Done Under Annual Permit: At regular intervals the Electrical
Inspector shall visit all premises where work may be done under annual permits
and shall inspect all electrical equipment installed under such a permit since
the date of the last previous inspection.
CHAPTER 5: PLUMBING CODE
Section
9-5-1: Code Adopted
9-5-2: Permit Requirements
9-5-3: Fees
9-5-4: Enforcement; Inspections
§ 9-5-1: CODE ADOPTED:
   There is hereby adopted by reference the most recent edition of the
Minnesota Department of Health Plumbing Code, Minnesota Rules, Chapter 4714.
§ 9-5-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: Before proceeding with any plumbing construction,
enlargement, alteration or repair, the owner of the property where such
plumbing is proposed, shall first obtain a permit for such purpose from the
Building Official.
   B.   Application for Permit: Application for such permit shall identify the
owner of the property, the legal description of the property where the work is
proposed, the nature of the proposed work and the identity of the contractor
who is to perform the work.
§ 9-5-3: FEES:
   The City Council shall establish a fee for plumbing permits in the City’s
fee ordinance.
§ 9-5-4: ENFORCEMENT; INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Enforcement Official: It shall be the duty of the Building Official to
enforce the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   Inspections:
      1.   Inspections Required; Defects: All plumbing work hereafter
constructed shall be inspected, and if found not to be in accordance with the
Plumbing Code, shall be corrected.
      2.   Corrections by City; Costs: If, after written notice to the person
installing work requiring correction thereof, such person neglects or refuses
to conform to such order, the Building Official may remove such work and charge
the cost thereof to the person installing the same.
      3.   Number of Inspections: At least two (2) inspections shall be
required, one (1) when the rough work is completed and one (1) upon completion
of the work.
   C.   Provisions are Additional: The provisions of this Section are in
addition to and not in lieu of the Plumbing Code under Minnesota Rules, Chapter
4714.
CHAPTER 6: FIRE PREVENTION CODE
Section
9-6-1: Code Adopted
9-6-2: Modifications to Code
§ 9-6-1: CODE ADOPTED:
   The Minnesota State Fire Code, most current edition with amendments, one (1)
copy of which is marked as the official copy and which is on file with the City
Clerk, is hereby adopted in its entirety as the Fire Code for the City for the
purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and
property from fire or explosion, except such portions as are modified or
amended by other sections of this Chapter. Every provision contained in the
Fire Code as amended, except as modified or amended by this Chapter, is hereby
adopted and made part of this Chapter as if fully set forth herein.
§ 9-6-2: MODIFICATIONS TO CODE:
   A.   Permits:
      1.   Each permit issued by the Fire Division, pursuant to the Minnesota
State Fire Code shall be issued for a one (1) year period unless otherwise
provided in this Section.
      2.   Tank installation permits shall be valid until revoked by the Fire
Chief or their designee.
      3.   Permit fees shall be in such amount as provided by ordinance of the
City Council from time to time. Pro rata adjustments, on a monthly basis, shall
be made for permits in effect less than one (1) full year.
      4.   The Fire Chief shall establish procedures and forms to carry out the
intent of this Section.
   B.   Optional Appendices Adopted:
      1.   Appendix D of the Minnesota State Fire Code, Fire Apparatus Access
Roads.
   C.   Appeals: Whenever the Fire Chief shall refuse to grant a permit, or
when it is claimed that the provisions of the Fire Code do not apply or that
the true intent and meaning of the Fire Code have been misconstrued or wrongly
interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the Fire Chief
pursuant to City Code Section
1-3-4.
   D.   New Materials, Processes or Occupancies: The Fire Chief, the Building
Official and the City Administrator shall act as a committee to determine and
specify, after giving affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new
materials, processes, or occupancies which shall require permits. The Fire
Chief shall then effect changes to the Fire Code.
CHAPTER 7: GRADING, FILLING AND EXCAVATING
Section
9-7-1: Grading, Filling and Excavating
§ 9-7-1: GRADING, FILLING AND EXCAVATING:
   A.   General:
      1.   Actions Requiring Grading Permit: No person shall undertake,
authorize, or permit any of the following actions without first having obtained
a grading permit from the City:
         a. Any excavating, grading, filling, or other change in the earth’s
topography resulting in the movement of more than twenty (20) cubic yards of
material, except in any wetlands, designated floodplain, or shoreland district.
A permit is not required in conjunction with a Council approved mining permit;
         b. Earthwork undertaken in accordance with grading plans approved in
conjunction with a site and building plan review, rural subdivision or plat
approval;
         c. Any excavation, grading, or filling in a wetland, designated
floodplain, or shoreland district.
      2.   When Grading Permit Not Required: No grading permit shall be
required under subsections A1a and A1b of this section for any earthwork that
will result in moving less than twenty (20) cubic yards of material but any
grading activity must comply with subsection D of this Section.
      3.   Grading Permits as Interim Use: All grading permits which would
result in the moving of more than one thousand (1,000) cubic yards of material
per acre of site area shall be reviewed as an interim use permit as specified
in City Code Section
11-2-9 when not in conjunction with a mining permit, preliminary plat,
development plan or site plan review process.
      4.   Plan Approved: The plan must be approved, where required, by
appropriate watershed districts, the United States Army Corps of Engineers, the
Minnesota Department of Natural Resources, and any other governmental agency
that has jurisdiction.
      5.   Postconstruction Stormwater Management: Postconstruction stormwater
management standards in sections 3 and 7 of the City’s surface water management
plan shall apply to all grading and development activities.
   B.   For projects subject to the NPDES Construction Stormwater General
Permit, within the City’s jurisdiction, and that discharge to the City MS4,
applicants must:
      1.   Comply with the NPDES Construction Stormwater General Permit
provisions,
      2.   Must submit site plans to the City for review and confirmation of
measures to meet the requirements to prevent or reduce water pollution after
construction activity is complete.
   C.   Project applicants must treat the water quality volume determined by
the applicable provisions of the:
      1.   NPDES Construction Stormwater General Permit;
      2.   NPDES Small Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) General
Permit; and
      3.   City Surface Water Management Plan.
   D.   Requirements: In addition to all other plan requirements in this
chapter, any applicant disturbing an amount of total land area equal to or
exceeding the threshold amount described by current national pollution
discharge elimination system (NPDES) requirements shall comply with the
following additional requirements:
      1.   All applicable erosion, sediment, and waste controls must be
designed and installed per the MPCA’s current Construction Stormwater General
Permit; and
      2.   The property owner shall apply for and be issued an NPDES
Construction Stormwater General Permit from the MPCA; and
      3.   The property owner or applicant shall submit to the City an approved
copy of the erosion and sediment control plan as required for the NPDES
Construction Stormwater General Permit by the MPCA.
   E.   Grading Permit Application Requirements: Application for grading permit
approval may be initiated by the owner, user or potential user of the subject
property by making application in writing to the planning division, on such
forms as may be designated. The grading plan shall contain the following
minimum information and any other items that the planning division considers
necessary for the proper consideration of the application:
      1.   General Information:
         a.   Legal Description of Property: The legal description of the
property and evidence of ownership or an interest in the property;
         b.   Permittee Signature: A signature by the permittee, or his
authorized agent, and the property owner;
         c.   Names, Contact Information: Names, addresses, and phone numbers
of the record owner, any agent having control of the land, the land surveyor,
the engineer, and the designer of the plan;
         d.   Location Map: A location map, including area within one-half (½)
mile of the site;
         e.   Property Survey: Property survey with boundary line of property
and property dimensions; an arrow indicating the direction of north; a scale,
using a graduated line, which represents the drawn dimensions in relation to
actual size of the project site, usually in number of feet per inch;
         f.   Training: The applicant must identify a person knowledgeable and
experienced in the application of erosion prevention and sediment control BMPs
who will oversee the implementation of the SWPPP, and the installation,
inspection and maintenance of the erosion prevention and sediment control BMPs
before and during construction. Name of person(s) trained, proof of training,
date and course name/provider must be on record and made available as part of
the permit application;
         g.   Date: Date of plan preparation; and
         h.   Engineer/Surveyor Signature: A signature by a registered engineer
or land surveyor.
      2.   Site Information:
         a.   Existing and proposed final grades utilizing a minimum of two
foot (2') contour interval (at least one hundred feet (100') beyond the
property boundary);
         b.   All hold down elevations;
         c.   The location of any existing or proposed buildings, structures,
fences and retaining walls, walks, roads, drives, and parking areas on the
property where the work is to be performed and those on land of adjacent owners
which are within fifteen feet (15') of the property or which may be affected by
the proposed grading operations;
         d.   A delineation of all streams, rivers, ponds, public waters,
designated floodplain, shoreland, and wetlands located on and immediately
adjacent to the site, including depth of water, a statement of general water
quality and any classification given to the water body or wetland by the
Minnesota department of natural resources (include MN DNR number and ordinary
high water level), the Minnesota pollution control agency, the fish and
wildlife service, and/or the U.S. Corps of Engineers; and
         e.   Utilities and utility right of way and easements, including
electric, natural gas, telephone, water (domestic and fire), and sewer
(sanitary and storm).
      3.   Plans Required: The following plans are also required and may either
be included on the site plan or separately, meeting the general application
requirements and information:
         a.   A drainage plan that includes the directional flow for the
different drainage areas, any engineering work for stormwater control and
retention that may be necessary;
         b.   A tree preservation plan consistent with the application
requirements of City Code Section
11-3-13.
         c.   An erosion control plan indicating the type and location of
temporary and permanent erosion control, sediment control, and soil
stabilization measures to be used and a progress schedule addressing the
critical dates of completion for erosion control, grading, seeding and related
site work;
         d.   A landscaping and site restoration plan including species, sizes,
descriptions, and locations; and
         e.   If more than ten (10) acres are disturbed and drained to a single
point of discharge temporary sediment basins must be installed. When site
restrictions do not allow for a temporary sediment basin, equivalent measures
as approved by the City may be used.
   F.   Fees and Financial Guarantee:
      1.   The fee required in the permit application as adopted by the City’s
fee ordinance; and
      2.   A financial guarantee, in the form of a cash escrow or letter of
credit, of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of grading costs, or an amount
sufficient to ensure compliance with the approved permit and adequate site
restoration, whichever is greater. The amount shall be based upon the size of
the site, sensitivity of its surroundings, extent of grading, amount of
material moved, necessary site restoration, and potential impacts upon public
facilities, including damage to public roadways and property.
      3.   Additional Information: In addition to the items enumerated above,
the City may require submission of the following:
         a.   A development concept plan indicating how the recontoured parcel
may be developed in a manner consistent with City ordinances and the City’s
comprehensive plan;
         b.   A description of traffic movements to and from the site to ensure
grading activity does not have a significant adverse effect on roads,
intersections, or development in the area; and
         c.   Such other information as may be required by the City.
   G.   Administrative Review:
      1.   Grading plans that would result in moving more than twenty (20) but
less than one thousand (1,000) cubic yards of material per acre must be
approved by the planning division. Grading plans within wetland, floodplain or
shoreland districts will also be administratively reviewed unless City Council
review is required by ordinance or state regulations.
      2.   Individual items on the grading plans may be waived only with the
approval of the director of community development.
      3.   Upon receipt of a completed application, the City shall review the
application and notify the applicant by mail of the decision to approve or deny
the application. Grading permits shall be issued only for grading plans
providing for adequate drainage, stormwater retention, and erosion and sediment
control measures. The planning division may impose such modifications and
conditions as may be necessary to protect the public interest.
      4.   Any applicant aggrieved by a decision of the planning division may
appeal the determination to the planning commission in accordance with City
Code Section
11-2-13.
      5.   The owner shall arrange for a premeeting with City planning staff to
discuss the project schedule and to address other matters of concern before the
grading permit is issued.
      6.   The City shall have the authority to revise a grading permit if on
site conditions or changing conditions make the original grading permit
ineffective.
      7.   The City shall inspect the site for installation of appropriate
erosion control, tree protection barriers, and other devices prior to issuance
of the final grading permit.
      8.   The permittee shall notify the planning division when the grading
operation is ready for final inspection. Final approval shall not be given
until all work, including installation of all drainage facilities and their
protective devices, and all erosion and sediment control measures have been
completed in accordance with the final approved grading plan signed by the
City.
   H.   Grading, Filling, and Excavating Standards:
      1.   Vegetation And Ground Cover: The plan shall maximize the
preservation of trees and existing vegetation on the property according to City
Code Section
11-3-13 and the following:
         a.   Prior to commencement of grading, all trees identified for
preservation shall be field identified and grading limits cordoned with a
suitable barrier such as snow fencing by the applicant and verified by the City
staff. The barrier shall be located to coincide to the extent practicable with
the drip line of trees to be preserved;
         b.   Finished grades shall have a minimum topsoil of at least four
inches (4");
         c.   Stabilization of all exposed soils (including stockpiles) must be
initiated immediately whenever the construction activity has been permanently
or temporarily ceased on any portion of the site and will not resume for a
period exceeding fourteen (14) calendar days. Stabilization must be completed
no later than fourteen (14) calendar days after the construction activity for
that portion of the site has been permanently or temporarily ceased; and
         d.   All exposed soil areas within one hundred feet (100') of a water
of the state or storm drain inlet, or conveyance channel within one hundred
feet (100') of a water of the state, shall have temporary or permanent cover,
consistent with current NPDES permit guidelines; and
         e.   In instances where an existing natural or created buffer will be
impacted by grading or filling operations, site restoration shall be completed
by the permittee in a manner which resembles, to the extent possible, the
original vegetative and topographic state of the property, when deemed
appropriate by the City; and
         f.   Any activity which changes the land surface, including removing
vegetative cover, excavating, filling, grading, construction of any structure,
or alteration of the topographic state of the property, and creates erosion or
sedimentation problems, flooding, ponding and/or negatively alters water
drainage shall be corrected by the owner, or designee as determined by City
staff.
         g.   Permanent sediment basins should be designed and constructed with
a maintenance access route from an established public right of way. This route
shall be a minimum of twenty-five feet (25') in width and be at a maximum grade
of five to one (5:1) at the point of access to the basin. Sediment basins and
their maintenance shall be completed in accordance with accepted design
criteria, standards and specifications found in the MPCA publication
“Protecting Water Quality in Urban Areas”.
      2.   Grading or Development Activities: The plan and grading activity
must comply with the following:
         a.   Land shall be developed in phases of workable size such that
adequate erosion and sediment control measures can be provided as construction
progresses. The smallest practical area of land shall be exposed at any one (1)
period of time;
         b.   For soil stockpiles greater than ten (10) cubic yards, the toe of
the stockpile must be at least thirty feet (30') from any road, drainage
channel, stormwater inlet, or water of the state. Erosion from stockpiles shall
be controlled by placing appropriate barriers around the pile as necessary to
contain sediments. If these measures do not adequately control the erosion, the
piles shall be stabilized by mulching, vegetative cover, tarps, or other means.
In street utility repair or construction, soil stockpiles located closer than
thirty feet (30') of a roadway, drainage channel, stormwater inlet or water of
the state must be covered with tarps or suitable alternative control. All
stockpiles shall have adequate sediment control measures surrounding its
perimeter;
         c.   All storm drain inlets shall be protected during construction,
until permanent control measures are in place, with a temporary measure such as
straw bales, silt fence or equivalent barrier meeting accepted design criteria,
standards and specifications found in the MPCA publication “Protecting Water
Quality In Urban Areas”;
         d.   A temporary rock pad entrance must be installed at all points
where vehicles exit a land alteration site and must be constructed prior to
commencement of grading activity. The rock pad is to be maintained to
accommodate continuous removal of mud from vehicles. The rock pad shall meet
design criteria, standards and specifications found in the MPCA publication
“Protecting Water Quality In Urban Areas”;
         e.   Streets abutting the site shall be swept as needed to remove any
sediment and/or debris that may accumulate due to land alteration activities.
The City may require street sweeping within twenty-four (24) hours of verbal or
written notification. If the street is not swept, the City will clean the
street and bill the owner or permittee, as determined by the public works
director;
         f.   Corrective action and landscape restoration for erosion or
sedimentation problems on neighboring properties, or any location other than
the permitted site, shall commence within twenty-four (24) hours of written or
verbal notification. Sediment removal from wetlands should not commence without
prior approval of the City;
         g.   Under no circumstances shall organic material or construction
debris from the site be buried;
         h.   Water pumped from the site, or from any dewatering operation
associated with the permitted activity, shall be treated by temporary
sedimentation basins, grit chambers, sand filters, upflow chambers,
hydrocyclones, swirl concentrators or other appropriate controls as
appropriate, as determined by the City. Water may not be discharged in a manner
that causes erosion, sedimentation or flooding of the site or receiving
channels or a wetland;
         i.   The grading plan shall adhere to erosion and sediment control
standards and specifications contained in the MPCA publication “Protecting
Water Quality In Urban Areas” and the “Minnesota Construction Site Erosion And
Sediment Control Planning Handbook”;
         j.   All erosion and sediment control devices including silt fence,
gravel, hay bales or other measures must be installed, consistent with the
approved plan, and verified by the City prior to commencement of grading
activity. Silt fence shall be properly installed by being trenched and buried
at least six inches (6") into the soil. All erosion and sediment control
devices shall be removed from the construction site and properly disposed of or
recycled within thirty (30) days of the establishment of permanent vegetative
cover on the disturbed areas;
         k.   The grading plan must comply with the City’s surface water
management plan;
         l.   The plan shall not result in sites that are unsatisfactory for
development of permitted uses. The development potential of a site may be
adversely impacted by such matters as unsuitable finished grades, poor soil
stability, unsatisfactory drainage or exposure to deleterious influences such
as highway frontage for residential property;
         m.   The plan shall include dust control measures such as daily or
more frequent watering if needed for dust suppression;
         n.   Drainage swales shall be constructed to divert stormwater runoff
toward a stormwater conveyance system or infiltration area for property
treatment. Minimum grades on drainage swales should be one and one-half percent
(1.5%);
         o.   Appropriate on-site containment must be provided for all trash,
solid waste, construction debris, floating debris, and hazardous materials.
Waste shall be disposed of only in approved locations; and
         p.   Site grading activity cannot occur between the time period of
seven o’clock (7:00) P.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. except by special
exception granted by the City Council.
      3.   Residential Standards: In general, residential developments should
be designed to reduce potential runoff to the extent practical. Specific design
issues, in addition to those regulations found within this section, may be
addressed by the City during review of a formal planning application.
Residential development must comply with the following additional standards:
         a.   Downspouts and drainage must be diverted away from impervious
surfaces, steep slopes and ravines to the greatest extent possible;
         b.   Side slopes between adjacent houses should not be greater than
three to one (3:1) slope unless the original soil and vegetation is left
undisturbed or there is sufficient area to construct a drainage swale to convey
water away from the houses;
         c.   Prior to approval of a certificate of occupancy by the City, the
owner and permittee shall certify that lot grades meet the standards set in the
original grading plan. Such certification shall be completed by a registered
surveyor. Lots occupied after November 15 and before April 30 of each year
shall come into compliance by May 31 of each year. Survey certification
requirements shall be guaranteed as part of the subdivision agreement; and
         d.   For grades greater than four to one (4:1), a vegetative ground
cover shall be established within thirty (30) days of certificate of occupancy
or no later than June 1 for homes occupied between October 1 and May 1.
      4.   Slopes:
         a.   No natural hillsides steeper than eighteen percent (18%) shall be
graded;
         b.   Slope protection shall consist of mulch, sheets of plastic,
burlap or jute netting, sod blankets, fast growing grasses or temporary seeding
of annual grasses. Mulch consists of hay, straw, wood chips, cornstalks, bark,
or other protective material. Mulch shall be anchored to slopes with stakes and
netting, or shall be worked into the soil to provide additional slope
stability;
         c.   At the foot of each slope, a channel and berm shall be
constructed to control runoff. The channeled water shall be diverted to a
sedimentation basin (debris basin, silt basin or silt trap) before being
allowed to enter any natural drainage system; and
         d.   Along the top of each slope, a berm shall be constructed to
prevent runoff from flowing over the edge of the slope if determined necessary
by the City. Where runoff collecting behind the berm cannot be diverted
elsewhere and must be directed down the slope, appropriate measures shall be
taken to prevent erosion. Such measures shall either consist of an asphalt
paved flow apron or drop chute laid flow apron. A riprap energy dissipater
shall be installed to prevent erosion at the discharge end.
      5.   Modification of Plan: Control measures other than those specifically
stated above, or contained in the erosion and sediment control plan approved by
the City, may be used only upon expressed approval of the City, based on the
determination that they will effectively protect against erosion.
      6.   Inspections: Inspections and maintenance must be documented and
readily available for review on site. Inspections are required as follows:
         a.   Once every seven (7) days on exposed soil areas.
         b.   Within twenty-four (24) hours after a one-half inch (½") rain
event over twenty-four (24) hours.
         c.   Once every thirty (30) days on stabilized areas.
         d.   As soon as runoff occurs or prior to resuming construction on
frozen ground.
      7.   Maintenance: Maintenance is required as follows:
         a.   When sediment reaches half the height of the BMP on perimeter
control devices, sediment must be removed within twenty-four (24) hours.
         b.   If the perimeter control device is not functional it must be
repaired or replaced within twenty-four (24) hours.
         c.   Temporary sediment basins shall be maintained when sediment
reaches half the outlet height or half the basin storage volume. Basin must be
drained or sediment removed within seventy-two (72) hours.
         d.   Sediment tracked from construction site vehicle entrance and exit
locations must be removed from paved surfaces within twenty-four (24) hours of
discovery.
         e.   Inlet protection devices must be cleaned when sediment reaches
half the height of the device.
      8.   Right of Entry and Inspection: The permittee and property owner
shall allow the City and their authorized representatives, upon presentation of
credentials:
         a.   To enter upon the permitted site for the purpose of obtaining
information, examination of records, conducting investigations or surveys.
         b.   To bring such equipment upon the permitted site as is necessary
to conduct such surveys and investigations.
         c.   To examine and copy any books, papers, records, or memoranda
pertaining to activities or records required to be kept under the terms and
conditions of the permitted activity.
         d.   To inspect the erosion and sediment control measures required by
the permit.
         e.   To sample and monitor any items or activities pertaining to
permits issued by the City.
         f.   To enter upon the permitted site for the purpose of correcting
any grading condition that presents an imminent hazard to persons or property.
Except in the case of emergencies, the City must notify the permittee of the
condition to be corrected and provide the permittee a reasonable opportunity
(not less than twenty-four (24) hours) to correct the condition prior to
entering the permitted site and performing the corrective work.
         g.   To enter upon the permitted site after the suspension or
revocation of the permit for the purpose of correcting violations or providing
appropriate stabilization and ground cover to address any erosion concerns.
   I.   Suspension or Revocation: The City may suspend or revoke a grading
permit whenever the permit is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect
information supplied, or is found to be in violation of any local, state, or
federal ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of this section. The
City will provide written notice of the intent to suspend or revoke the permit
based upon the above criteria. If within seven (7) days of notification to the
permittee, the situation related to the revocation or suspension has not been
brought into compliance the permit will be considered null and void. The
permittee may request a hearing before the director of community development
upon notice of the violation.
   The City may suspend grading activity if it is found that the grading
activity is in violation with this section or any conditions stated on the face
of the approved grading permit. To assure that the grading activity is being
conducted in accordance with the conditions stated on the permit and with the
requirements of this section, the community development director may make, at
the expense of the person or firm conducting the land alteration, those field
measurements the community development director deems necessary to assure that
such conditions and requirements are being followed, such work to be done at
the direction of the community development director on an hourly basis at the
time charge fixed by the community development director.
   J.   Violations: Any person, company or organization who violates, fails to
comply with, or assists, directs, or permits the violation of the terms or
conditions of an approved site and building plan, landscape plan, or grading
plan shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Such violation shall be a violation of
the approved site and building plan, landscape plan, or grading plan and shall
render the approval or plan null and void.
CHAPTER 8: SWIMMING POOLS
Section
9-8-1: Definition
9-8-2: Permit Requirements
9-8-3: Requirements in All Zoning Districts
9-8-4: Requirements in Single-Family Residential Districts
9-8-5: Requirements in Multi-Family Dwelling Areas
9-8-6: Inspections
§ 9-8-1: DEFINITION:
   As used in this Chapter, the term “swimming pool” shall include any
enclosure, above or below grade, having a water surface area exceeding one
hundred (100) square feet and a water depth greater than eighteen inches (18")
at any point.
§ 9-8-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: No swimming pool shall be constructed, excavated or
erected within the City without first obtaining a building permit.
   B.   Application for Permit: The application for a building permit shall
include:
      1.   The type and size of pool.
      2.   A site plan indicating the following: location of pool; location of
house; garage, fencing and other improvements on the lot; location of filter
unit, pump, and wiring indicating the type of such units; location of
structures on adjacent lots; location of backflush and drainage outlets;
grading plan, finished elevations and final treatment (decking, landscaping,
etc.) around pool; location of existing overhead or underground wiring, utility
easements, trees, and similar features; location of any water heating unit.
§ 9-8-3: REQUIREMENTS IN ALL ZONING DISTRICTS:
   A.   Precautions and Requirements During Construction:
      1.   In the case of underground pools, precautions shall be taken during
construction to:
         a.   Avoid damage, hazards or inconvenience to adjacent or nearby
property.
         b.   Assure that proper care shall be taken in stockpiling excavated
material to avoid erosion, dust, or other infringements upon adjacent property.
      2.   All access for construction shall be over the owner’s land, and due
care shall be taken to avoid damage to public streets and adjacent private or
public property. The owner shall be liable for damages caused to any public or
private property.
   B.   Location of Pools from Utilities:
      1.   Pools shall not be located within ten feet (10'), measured
horizontally, from overhead or underground utility lines of any type.
      2.   Pools shall not be located within eighteen feet (18') of any utility
lines that are aboveground, and shall be located no closer than five feet (5')
horizontally for underground utility lines.
   C.   Fences and Gates:
      1.   The pool shall be enclosed with fencing, at least four feet (4')
high and not exceeding six feet (6') high, to prevent uncontrolled entrance of
all persons. Such fence shall have self-closing and self-latching gates with
provisions for locking and shall be completely installed prior to the filling
of the pool.
      2.   Access points to the pool shall be provided with self-closing,
lockable, self-latching gates and shall be installed prior to the filling of
the pool. For an aboveground pool, where the combined heights of the pool and
deck/railing is four feet (4') or greater above grade, and access points to the
pool are provided with self-closing, lockable, self-latching gates, or
removable ladder, a separate fence shall not be required.
   D.   Retaining Walls: Retaining walls shall be designed to resist the
lateral pressure of the retained material in accordance with accepted
engineering practice. Walls retaining drained earth may be designed for
pressure equivalent to that exerted by a fluid weighing not less than thirty
(30) pounds per cubic foot and having a depth equal to that of the retained
earth. Any surcharge shall be in addition to the equivalent fluid pressure.
   E.   Lighting of Pool Area: Pool lighting shall be directed toward the pool
and not toward adjacent property.
   F.   Quality of Pool Water: Pool water shall be maintained in a suitable
manner to avoid health hazards of any type.
   G.   Filling Pools from Hydrants: Filling of pools from fire hydrants or
other public facilities shall require the permission of the appropriate local
City Officials.
   H.   Drainage of Water: To the extent feasible, back-flush water or water
from pool drainage shall be directed onto the owner’s property or into approved
public drainageways and shall not drain onto adjacent private land.
   I.   Safety Devices: Safety rope and floats shall be maintained to separate
and designate the deep-water portion of the pool.
   J.   Inspections: All wiring, installation of heating units, grading,
installation of pipes and all other installations and construction shall be
subject to inspection.
§ 9-8-4: REQUIREMENTS IN SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Location:
      1.   Pool and decking setbacks shall be regulated by City Code Section
11-3-5, Accessory Structures, of this Code. Pools shall not be located within
six feet (6') of any principal structure or frost footing.
      2.   Pools shall not be located within any required front yard.
   B.   Noise Control: The filter unit, pump, heating unit and any other
noisemaking mechanical equipment shall be located at least twenty-five feet
(25') from any adjacent or nearby residential structure and not closer than
eight feet (8') to any lot line.
§ 9-8-5: REQUIREMENTS IN MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING AREAS:
   Private swimming pools which are intended for and used by the occupants of a
multiple-family dwelling and the guests of the occupants of such dwelling shall
adhere to the following regulations:
   A.   Location: No part of the water surface of the swimming pool shall be
closer than fifty feet (50') to any lot line.
   B.   Noise Control: No pumps, filter or other apparatus used in connection
with or to service a swimming pool shall be located closer than fifty feet
(50') to any lot line.
   C.   Fencing, Screening and Landscaping: The pool area shall be adequately
fenced to prevent uncontrolled access from the street or adjacent property.
Adequate screening, including, but not limited to, landscaping shall be placed
between the pool area and adjacent single-family district lot lines.
   D.   Decks and Patios: All deck areas, adjacent patios or other similar
areas used in conjunction with the swimming pool shall be located at least
thirty feet (30') from any lot line in an adjacent single-family district.
§ 9-8-6: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Inground Pools: The following inspections for inground pools are
mandatory:
      1.   Staking to verify setback requirements.
      2.   Footing inspection during placing of concrete.
      3.   Compliance with the fencing requirements.
      4.   Electrical inspections, if applicable.
   B.   Aboveground Pools: The following inspections for aboveground pools are
mandatory prior to filling the pool with water:
      1.   Verification of setback requirements.
      2.   Compliance with fencing and/or barrier requirements.
      3.   Electrical, if applicable.
CHAPTER 9: OUTDOOR WOOD BURNERS
Section
9-9-1: Purpose
9-9-2: Applicability
9-9-3: Definitions
9-9-4: Materials That May Not Be Burned
9-9-5: Area of Operation
9-9-6: Building Permit Required
9-9-7: Application for Building Permit
§ 9-9-1: PURPOSE:
   This Chapter is intended to ensure that outdoor wood burner systems are
utilized in a manner that does not create a public nuisance and is not
detrimental to the health, safety, and general welfare of the residents of the
City.
§ 9-9-2: APPLICABILITY:
   This Chapter applies to all outdoor burning and open burning within the
City, but does not apply to:
   A.   Grilling or cooking food using charcoal, wood, propane, or natural gas
in cooking or grilling appliances.
   B.   Burning for the purpose of generating heat in a stove, furnace,
fireplace, or other heating device within a building used for human or animal
habitation.
   C.   The use of propane, acetylene, natural gas, gasoline, or kerosene in a
device intended for heating construction or maintenance activities.
   D.   Wood fires in fireplaces, stoves, heaters, or furnaces, safely
designed, constructed and installed for such purposes and complying with all
applicable laws and ordinances.
§ 9-9-3: DEFINITIONS:
   For purposes of this Chapter, the following words shall have the definitions
indicated unless the context clearly calls for or indicates a different
meaning:
   CLEAN WOOD: Natural dry wood which has not been painted, varnished, or
coated with a similar material, has not been pressure treated with
preservatives and does not contain resins or glues as in plywood or other
composite wood products and other environmental protection agency approved
fuels.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE: Building waste materials, including, but
not limited to, waste shingles, insulation, lumber, treated wood, painted wood,
wiring, plastics, packaging, and rubble that results from construction,
remodeling, repair, and demolition operations on a structure.
   OUTDOOR WOOD BURNER SYSTEM: Any equipment, device, appliance, or apparatus,
or any part thereof, which is installed, affixed, or situated outdoors for the
primary purpose of combustion of fuel to produce heat or energy used as a
component of heating system providing heat for any interior space or water
source. An outdoor wood burner may also be referred to as an outdoor wood
boiler or wood fired hydronic heater. An outdoor wood burner does not include a
fire pit or wood fired barbecue.
   PATIO WOOD BURNING UNIT: A patio warmer or other portable wood burning
device used for outdoor recreation and/or heating.
§ 9-9-4: MATERIALS THAT MAY NOT BE BURNED:
   The following materials may not be burned:
   A.   Rubbish or garbage including, but not limited to, food wastes, food
wraps, packaging, animal carcasses, paint or painted materials, furniture,
newspaper and paper products, corrugated cardboard, container board, composite
shingles, construction or demolition debris or other household, hazardous or
business wastes.
   B.   Waste oil or other oily wastes.
   C.   Asphalt and products containing asphalt.
   D.   Treated or painted wood including, but not limited to, plywood,
composite wood products or other wood products that are painted, varnished, or
treated with preservatives.
   E.   Any plastic material including, but not limited to, nylon, PVC, ABS,
polystyrene or urethane foam, and synthetic fabrics, plastic films, and plastic
containers.
   F.   Rubber including tires and synthetic rubberlike products.
§ 9-9-5: AREA OF OPERATION:
   An outdoor wood burner system may be installed and used only in accordance
with the following provisions:
   A.   The outdoor wood burner must be installed and used on parcels of land
that are a minimum of three (3) acres in size and zoned AG-1, agricultural
preservation; AG-2, agricultural; or R-1, rural residential.
   B.   The outdoor wood burner must be located at least one hundred feet
(100') from any property line.
   C.   The outdoor wood burner must comply with all applicable laws including,
but not limited to, ordinances that prohibit creating a human health hazard or
a public nuisance.
   D.   The outdoor wood burner must not be located in any required front yard.
   E.   The outdoor wood burner must be equipped with properly functioning
spark arresters.
   F.   The outdoor wood burner must be located on the property in compliance
with manufacturer’s recommendations and listing requirements for clearance to
combustible materials.
   G.   The outdoor wood burner must be laboratory tested and listed to
appropriate safety standards such as Underwriters Laboratories, American
National Standards Institute, or Canadian Standards Association.
   H.   The outdoor wood burner must be EPA outdoor wood qualified at the phase
2 emissions level or latest established phase for U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency’s voluntary program.
§ 9-9-6: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A building permit must be obtained to assure that the outdoor wood burner
system meets all building and fire codes and manufacturer’s specifications for
installation.
§ 9-9-7: APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT:
   An application for an outdoor wood burner permit must be made pursuant to
City Code Section
9-3-1 and in addition, must include the following data:
   A.   A sketch of the dimensions of the property, including location of
buildings and the wood burner relative to the lot lines and distances from
residences on adjacent properties; and
   B.   Manufacturer’s specifications for installation.
CHAPTER 10: MANUFACTURED HOMES
Section
9-10-1: Permit Requirements
9-10-2: Certificate of Occupancy
9-10-3: Minimum Requirements
§ 9-10-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   Permits for the installation of manufactured homes shall be required and
obtained by the owner of the manufactured home, the dealer/installer, or by the
manufactured home park management company. Permit fees shall be established in
the City’s fee ordinance.
§ 9-10-2: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   No occupancy of a manufactured home will be allowed without a certificate of
occupancy as issued by the Building Official. A Certificate of Occupancy shall
be issued after the approvals of all required inspections.
§ 9-10-3: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
   Manufactured homes shall meet the minimum requirements as specified in the
most recently adopted edition of the State Building Code, unless otherwise
excepted by State law.
CHAPTER 11: REGISTERED PLANTS
Section
9-11-1: Definition
9-11-2: Scope
9-11-3: Application for Registration; Approval or Denial
9-11-4: Registration Fee; Expiration; Renewals
9-11-5: Validity of Registration
9-11-6: Work Report and Inspections
9-11-7: Licensed Contractors
9-11-8: Revocation of Registration
§ 9-11-1: DEFINITION:
   For the purpose of the Chapter, a “registered plant” is a person, firm,
corporation, or political entity engaged in manufacturing, processing or
service which requires specialized multi-building, utilities and equipment to
the extent the plant maintains full-time personnel for the operations and
maintenance of such buildings, utilities and equipment and when such plant has
complied with all the provisions of this Chapter.
§ 9-11-2: SCOPE:
   A.   Registered plants are exempt from the individual permits, and for work
on existing buildings, structures, and utilities accessory thereto that does
not increase the floor area or height (for interior only). This exemption is
limited to buildings owned or leased by the registered plant and under the
direct control of the holder of the registration. Said buildings or structures
qualify for this exemption after the certificate of occupancy has been issued
for the structure and all interior improvements covering the initial plan
occupancy. This exemption shall not be construed to waive any other requirement
of the most recently adopted edition of the Minnesota Building Code, and
applicable requirements shall be complied with. The plant registration is not
transferable.
   B.   Apparent structural changes or wall penetrations on load-bearing walls
and work of that nature will be subject to standard review process and the fee
schedules under the scope of the most recently adopted edition of the Minnesota
Building Codes.
§ 9-11-3: APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION; APPROVAL OR DENIAL:
   A.   Contents of Application: To obtain registration, the applicant shall
first file an application therefor in writing on a form furnished by the City
Building Official for that purpose. Every such application shall contain:
      1.   The name of the plant and building for which registration is
requested.
      2.   A description of the property to be included under registration by
address and other description that will readily identify and definitely locate
the buildings and structures to be included under the registration.
      3.   The name of the individual who has the authority to act on behalf of
the plant vice president or site director.
      4.   The State registration number and the name of the registered
architect or engineer and corporate certified building official who will be
responsible for the work done under the registration. Applications process
shall be approved by the corporation building official prior to submission of
the permit application to the City.
      5.   Annual inspection with right of entry for City building officials.
   B.   Approval or Denial: Appropriate action shall be taken by the Building
Official on such application, and the applicant shall be notified accordingly.
   C.   Appeals: If the application is denied, the applicant may appeal the
decision pursuant to City Code Section
1-3-4.
§ 9-11-4: REGISTRATION FEE; EXPIRATION; RENEWALS:
   A.   Registration Fee: Every applicant for registration shall pay a fee in
such amount as established in the City’s fee ordinance.
   B.   Expiration of Registration; Renewals: Registrations shall expire on
January 31 of each year. Registrations may be renewed each year by payment of
the fee on or before January 31. The fee shall be refunded if the application
is disapproved. Any work performed after expiration of the registration without
permits and inspections required by this Chapter shall be a violation of the
most recently adopted edition of the Uniform Building Code.
§ 9-11-5: VALIDITY OF REGISTRATION:
   Registration shall be valid only as long as the named architect or engineer
and certified building official remains under contract with or employed by the
registered plant in an active capacity. If the registered architect, engineer,
or certified building official terminates their contract or leaves the employ
of the registered plant, registration is suspended until another registered
architect, engineer or certified building official becomes responsible for
further work done under the registration. The registered plant shall notify the
City Building Official immediately and shall call for inspection of any work in
progress in accordance with the most recently adopted edition of the Minnesota
Building Codes. Before any new work commences, while registration is invalid or
suspended, permits and inspections shall be obtained pursuant to this Chapter.
§ 9-11-6: WORK REPORT AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Summary Work Report; Exemptions: A summary report of all work done
under the plant registration shall be prepared by the registered architect or
engineer and renewed by the corporation certified building official before
submitted annually or before December 31 to the City Building Official.
   B.   Review of Plans; Inspection of Work: Plans or working drawings for
alterations to buildings or utilities covered by the Uniform Building Code need
not be submitted for approval, except for those conditions listed below. Plans
submitted pursuant to this Section may be reviewed and inspection of the work
conducted by either the City Building Official or authorized representatives as
set forth in this Chapter; provided, however, that work may proceed without
inspection pursuant to this Section. The registered plant may request plan
review or inspection of any work performed under this section upon payment of
required fees if the nature of the work is in question.
   C.   Plans Required to be Submitted:
      1.   Plans shall be submitted to the City Building Official for review of
works which:
         a.   Create a different occupancy group as defined in the most
recently adopted edition of the Uniform Building Code for all or a portion of
the building.
         b.   Create a different building type as defined in the most recently
adopted edition of the Minnesota Building Codes for all or a portion of the
building.
         c.   Add, alter, remove or penetrate required fire walls for area
separation, occupancy separation or exterior wall construction.
         d.   Add, alter, remove, or penetrate exit courts, exit passageways,
or horizontal exits. Exit doors may be added, moved, or removed from exit
courts or passageways when an appropriate fire rate door(s) is installed or
opening protection maintained in accordance with the most recently adopted
edition of the Uniform Building Code.
         e.   Provide for alterations to the fire protection systems which
constitutes moving more than five (5) sprinkler heads.
         f.   Modify load bearing structures.
      2.   These plans shall be submitted for review at or before the time of
construction, however, work may proceed prior to the completion of the review.
§ 9-11-7: LICENSED CONTRACTORS:
   All contractors working under the agreement shall be licensed prior to any
work to be performed.
§ 9-11-8: REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION:
   A.   Authority: The City Building Official may suspend or revoke the
registration of a registered plant which fails to comply with any of the
registration responsibilities or for violation of any provision of the most
recently adopted edition of the Minnesota Building Code.
   B.   Procedure: When the City Building Official deems that the registration
shall be suspended or revoked, the procedure shall be as follows:
      1.   The registered plant shall be notified in writing by certified mail
at least seven (7) days prior to suspension or revocation.
      2.   Upon receipt of this notice, the registered plant may request a
hearing. Such requests shall be in writing to the City Building Official within
seven (7) days of the receipt of notice.
      3.   If a hearing is requested by the registered plant, the City Building
Official shall set a time, date, and place and so notify the registered plant.
      4.   When a hearing is conducted, the registered plant and other
interested parties may be in attendance. Upon completion of the hearing, the
City Building Official shall take all evidence submitted under advisement and
shall notify the registered plant of their findings in writing by certified
mail.
      5.   If the decision rendered by the City Building Official is adverse to
the registered plant, the registered plant may appeal the decision to the
advisory/appeals board in the manner provided in most recently adopted edition
of the Minnesota Building Code.
CHAPTER 12: PUBLIC SAFETY 800 MHZ RADIO BUILDING COVERAGE
Section
9-12-1: Adequate Radio Coverage
9-12-2: Exempt Buildings
9-12-3: Amplification Systems Allowed
9-12-4: Testing Procedures
§ 9-12-1: ADEQUATE RADIO COVERAGE:
   A.   Except as provided in Section
9-12-2, no person shall construct any building, construct an addition to any
building that increases the gross floor area of the building by more than
twenty percent (20%), change the occupancy classification of more than fifty
percent (50%) of the floor area of any building or cause the same to be done to
a building, if such building fails to support adequate radio coverage for the
Minnesota Regional Radio Communications System, including but not limited to
firefighters and police officers.
   B.   Except as provided in Section
9-12-2, all existing buildings shall have adequate radio coverage within the
building for the City’s public safety employees, which may require improvement
of the building’s existing radio coverage levels in the following
circumstances:
      1.   When the existing radio coverage system cannot be repaired; or
      2.   When the existing radio coverage system is being replaced.
   C.   For the purposes of this Chapter, parking garages, parking ramps, stair
shafts, elevators and stairwells are included in the definition of the term
“building.” For purposes of this Chapter, adequate radio coverage shall be an
average received field strength of no less than ninety-three (93) dBm, or one
percent (1%) BER, measured at thirty to thirty-six inches (30" - 36") above the
floor over ninety percent (90%) of the area of each floor including the
basement in the building and other critical areas determined by the Fire Chief
or the Fire Chief’s designee such as fire command centers, stairwells,
elevators, high hazard areas, basements and parking garages and ramps. Without
an in-building radio system, only the received signal level standard must be
achieved, as the talk-out path is equivalent to the talk-in path in this
regional radio system.
§ 9-12-2: EXEMPT BUILDINGS:
   The requirements of Section
9-12-1 shall not apply to:
   A.   Any dwelling unit or accessory building in the R-1 district or R-
2 district.
   B.   Any building of less than twenty-five thousand (25,000) square feet in
gross floor area.
   C.   Any building constructed of wood frame; provided that such building
does not contain any metal construction or any below grade levels or below
grade parking areas.
   D.    Any new or existing building that does not have adequate radio
coverage as defined in Section
9-12-1.A; when it is determined by the Fire Chief or the Fire Chief’s
designated representative that an upgrade or improvement of the radio coverage
system is not needed.
§ 9-12-3: AMPLIFICATION SYSTEMS ALLOWED:
   Buildings required by Section
9-12-1 to support adequate radio coverage which cannot support the required
level of radio coverage required by Section
9-12-1 shall be equipped with approved bi-directional eight hundred (800) MHZ
signal enhancement systems as needed. If amplification is used in the system,
all required Federal Communications Commission authorizations must be obtained
by the building owner prior to the use of the system. If any part of the
installed system or systems contains an electrically powered component, the
system shall be capable of operating on an independent battery and/or generator
system for a continuous period of at least twelve (12) hours without external
power input. The battery system shall automatically charge in the presence of
an external power input.
§ 9-12-4: TESTING PROCEDURES:
   The following testing procedures shall apply to each building or structure
required by Section
9-12-1 to support adequate radio coverage:
   A.   Acceptance test procedure: Prior to the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy, the owner of the building shall arrange for testing conducted by
individuals acceptable to the Fire Chief to ensure the building conforms with
the requirements of Section
9-12-1. Testing procedures shall conform to practices adopted and on-file with
the Building Official.
   B.   Annual tests: When an in-building radio system is required to support
the required level of radio coverage, the owner of the building shall arrange
for testing conducted by individuals acceptable to the Fire Chief of all active
components of the system, including but not limited to amplifiers, power
supplies and backup batteries, a minimum of once every twelve (12) months.
Amplifiers shall be tested to ensure that the gain is the same as it was upon
initial installation and acceptance. Backup batteries and power supplies shall
be tested under load for a period of one (1) hour to verify that they will
properly operate during an actual power outage. If within the one (1) hour test
period, in the opinion of the testing technician, the battery exhibits symptoms
of failure, the test shall be extended for additional one (1) hour periods
until the testing technician confirms the integrity of the battery. All other
active components shall be checked to determine that they are operating within
the manufacturer’s specifications for the intended purpose. All deficiencies
found shall be corrected and testing repeated. All test results shall be
submitted to the Fire Chief within thirty (30) days of the test date.
   C.   Five (5) year tests: When an in-building radio system is required to
support the required level of radio coverage, then in addition to the annual
test, the building owner shall arrange for testing conducted by individuals
acceptable to the Fire Chief to perform a radio coverage test a minimum of once
every five (5) years to ensure that the radio system continues to meet the
requirements of the original acceptance test. A radio test shall also be
performed whenever there is a change in or to the building that may have an
impact on coverage. Examples of the types of changes that may change radio
coverage are interior remodeling that adds and/or changes partitions, removal
of windows, and the addition of metalized treatment to window surfaces. The
procedure described by practices adopted by the City shall be used for these
tests. All test results shall be submitted to the Fire Chief within thirty (30)
days of the test date.
   D.   Field testing: Fire and police personnel, after providing reasonable
notice to the owner or the owner’s representative, shall have the right to
enter onto the property to conduct testing to be certain that the required
level of radio coverage is present.
CHAPTER 13: RELOCATION OF STRUCTURES
Section
9-13-1: Relocation of Structures
§ 9-13-1: RELOCATION OF STRUCTURES:
   A.   Permit Requirements.
      1.   Permit Required. Every licensed house mover shall, in each and every
instance, before raising, holding up or moving any building, obtain a permit
therefor from the Building Official.
      2.   Application for Permit; Content. An application for such permit
shall designate the origin and destination of such building, the route over
which it is to be moved and shall state the time in which the moving of such
building shall be accomplished.
      3.   Condition. No permit to move a building shall be issued unless and
until the following conditions are fully complied with and approved by the
Building Official:
         a.   The building to be moved, after being moved, must be worth at
least fifty percent (50%) of the cost of a similar new building, as determined
by the Building Official.
         b.   The Finance Director must certify that all the sewer charges and
water bills payable against the property from which the building is to be moved
have been paid, and the Director of Public Works shall affirm that all sewer
and water connections have been plugged or discontinued at the curb line or at
the main; that all cesspools, septic tanks and cisterns have been filled, all
other hazards have been eliminated and all taxes against the property have been
paid in full.
         c.   The building to be moved must comply in all respects with the
City Building Code and other applicable ordinances; provided, that the person
proposing that a building be moved may present to the Building Official
complete and detailed plans showing changes which will be made in order to
attain compliance with such ordinances. In the event that such changes are
proposed, a permit authorizing the moving of such building shall not be issued
until the owner has agreed in writing to complete the necessary changes within
a period of one (1) year, the building official has approved the plans, the
building permit fee has been paid and the building permit issued.
   B.   Moving from without to within City Limits:
      1.   Any person desiring to move any building to within the limits of the
City from outside such limits shall comply with the following additional
requirements:
         a.   The applicant shall notify the City Building Official during the
process of the construction of such building, in sufficient time to allow the
Building Official to make all necessary inspections in order to determine
whether such building complies with the applicable ordinances of the City.
         b.   The Building Official is hereby authorized and required to make
the inspections provided for herein, upon compliance with the foregoing
requirements.
TITLE 10: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
Section
10-1-1: Purpose
10-1-2: Consistency with Comprehensive Plan
10-1-3: Scope; Conflicting Provisions
10-1-4: Compliance Prerequisite to Issuance of Building Permit
10-1-5: Rules of Word Construction; Definitions
10-1-6: Variances
10-1-7: Violation; Penalties
§ 10-1-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The process of dividing land into homesites or separate parcels for
other uses is an important factor in the growth of any community. Few
activities have a more lasting effect upon its transportation system, economy,
appearance, environment and potential land uses. Once land has been subdivided
into urban lots and streets, and homes and other structures have been
constructed, the basic character of the addition to the community has become
firmly established. It is then virtually impossible to alter its basic
character without substantial expense. In most subdivisions, roads and streets,
water, sewers, storm sewers, park trails and park land must be maintained and
various public services provided. The welfare of the entire community is
thereby affected in many important respects. It is, therefore, to the interest
of the general public, the developer and future owners that subdivisions be
conceived, designed and developed in accordance with sound rules and standards.
   B.   All subdivisions of land hereafter submitted for approval shall comply
with the regulations set forth in this Title. It is the purpose of these
regulations to:
      1.   Protect and promote the public health, safety and general welfare of
existing and future residents and other uses of land near the proposed
subdivision by requiring properly designed lots and parcels and improved
streets, park land, and access systems and where appropriate, adequate sanitary
sewer, storm sewer and public water service.
      2.   Encourage orderly, well-planned, attractive and safe subdivisions
and development of land by establishing reasonable standards for design and
construction.
      3.   Preserve agricultural lands in conformance with the Comprehensive
Plan and any amendments thereto.
      4.   Secure the rights of the public with respect to acquisition of
public lands and access to public waters.
      5.   Facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage
disposal, storm drainage, schools, parks, trails, playgrounds and other public
services and facilities, and to provide for equitable distribution of the costs
for those facilities.
      6.   Provide erosion control measures for subdivisions that meet or
exceed City standards.
      7.   Provide timely financial guarantees to ensure adequate construction
or required improvements.
      8.   Provide a method of reimbursing City staff and consultants’ time and
materials cost as appropriate.
§ 10-1-2: CONSISTENCY WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
   No plat shall be approved that is inconsistent with the Comprehensive Plan
of the City or any element thereof, including the goals, policies, text, land
use plan, parks and open space, transportation, utilities staging program and
the capital improvement program.
§ 10-1-3: SCOPE; CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Scope of Regulations: The rules and regulations contained in this Title
governing any subdivision of land shall apply within the community and to other
land as permitted by State statutes. In the event of overlapping jurisdiction,
the extent of jurisdiction shall be determined and agreed upon between this
community and the other municipalities concerned. Except in the case of
resubdivision, this Title shall not apply to any lot forming part of a
subdivision recorded in the office of the County records prior to the effective
date of the ordinance codified in this Title 10 or if this Title intended to
repeal, annul, impair or interfere with existing provisions of other laws or
ordinances, except those specifically repealed or in conflict with this Title,
or with private restrictions placed upon property by deed, covenant or private
agreement or with restrictive covenants governing the land.
   B.   Conflicting Provisions: Where this Title imposes a greater restriction
than existing provisions of law, ordinance, contract or deed, the provisions of
this Title shall control.
§ 10-1-4: COMPLIANCE PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT:
   No building permit shall be issued for any construction, enlargement,
alteration or repair, demolition or moving of any building or structure on any
lot or parcel until all the requirements of this Title have been fully met.
§ 10-1-5: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS:
   Words in the present tense include the past and future tenses; the singular
includes the plural, the plural includes the singular; the word “shall” is
mandatory; the word “may” is permissive. In the event of conflicting provisions
in the text of these regulations, the more restrictive shall apply.
   The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   ALLEY: Any dedicated public right of way providing a minor secondary means
of access to the side or rear of two (2) or more properties.
   ATTORNEY: The attorney employed by the community, unless otherwise stated.
   BLOCKS: The enclosed area within the perimeter of roads, property lines or
boundaries of a subdivision.
   BOULEVARD: The portion of the public street right of way between the back
curb line and the property line for uses such as snow storage, sidewalk,
utilities, street light and traffic or other signage and potential widening of
roadways.
   CITY: The City of Cottage Grove.
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT: A subdivision development planned and constructed to
group housing units into relatively tight patterns, while providing a unified
network of open space, and meeting the overall density regulations of this
Title and Title 11 of this Code.
   COLLECTOR STREET: A street which carries traffic from local streets to minor
arterials or from collector street to collector street, including the principal
entrance streets of a residential development for circulation within such a
development. Direct access may be limited or restricted to a collector street.
“Collector streets” are identified on the City’s Comprehensive Plan.
   COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL STREET: A street designed for the primary purpose of
serving industrial or commercial property which, because of the nature and type
of vehicular traffic, may require different standards of design or
construction.
   COMMUNITY: See definition of City.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A Comprehensive Plan prepared and adopted by the
community, including a compilation of policy statements, goals, text and maps
indicating the general locations recommended for the various functional classes
of land use, transportation network, utility infrastructures, places and
structures and for the general physical development of the community, including
any unit or part of such plan separately adopted and any amendment to such plan
or parts thereof.
   CONTOUR MAP: A map on which irregularities of land surface are shown by
lines connecting points of equal elevations; contour interval being the
vertical dimension between contour lines.
   COPY: A print or reproduction made from a tracing or other reproducible
medium.
   CORNER LOT: A lot bordered on at least two (2) adjacent sides by streets or
street rights of way.
   COUNTY: Washington County, Minnesota.
   COUNTY BOARD: The County Board of Commissioners.
   CUL-DE-SAC: A local street with only one (1) outlet and having a vehicular
turnaround.
   DEVELOPMENT: The building of structures and the installation of site
improvements.
   DOUBLE-FRONTAGE LOTS: Lots which have a front line abutting on one (1)
street and a back or rear line abutting on another street.
   DRAINAGE COURSE: A natural or human-made watercourse or indenture for the
drainage of surface water.
   EASEMENT: A grant by an owner of land for a specific use by persons other
than the owner.
   ENGINEER: The registered engineer employed by the community, unless
otherwise stated.
   FRONTAGE ROAD: A local street, parallel and adjacent to higher volume
streets and highways, which provides access to abutting properties and
protection of through traffic.
   GOVERNING BODY: The City Council.
   HOLD DOWN ELEVATION: The elevation of preliminary site grading before
building construction that causes earthwork balance with below grade building
excavations (basements and footings).
   INTERMEDIATE ARTERIAL: Minnesota Trunk Highway 61/10.
   KEY MAP: A map drawn to comparatively small scale which shows the area
proposed to be platted in relation to known geographical features, such as City
parks, the Mississippi River, wetlands and road systems.
   LAND USE: Categories of how land is occupied or utilized either through the
efforts of people or in a natural setting. Land uses are generally referenced
in broad categories such as residential, commercial or industrial, but can be
reduced to specific categories i.e., single-family vs. townhouses or
apartments.
   LAND USES (INCOMPATIBLE): Characteristics of uses of land that may not be
consistent or harmonious with one (1) another due to such items as height,
bulk, noxious odors, noise, unsightliness, traffic generation, exterior storage
or other nuisances inherent to one (1) land use but not to another.
   LOCAL STREET: A street of limited continuity used primarily for access to
abutting properties and for local needs of a neighborhood.
   LOT: A parcel or portion of land in a subdivision or plat of land, separated
from other parcels or portions by description, as on a subdivision or record of
survey map, for the purpose of sale or lease or separate use thereof. Public
right of way and land under the normal high water mark will not be included in
computing the required minimum size of any parcel in the City.
   METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION: A description of real property which is not
described by reference to a lot or block on a plat, but is described by
starting at a known point and describing the bearings and distances of the
lines forming the boundaries of the property or delineating a fractional
portion of a section, lot or area by described lines or portions thereof.
   MINIMUM SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS: The guides, principles and
specifications for the preparation of subdivision plans indicating, among other
things, the minimum and maximum dimensions of the various elements set forth in
this Title.
   MINOR ARTERIAL STREETS: Streets designated on the Comprehensive Plan and
used primarily by faster moving traffic at heavy volumes as traffic arteries
for vehicular movement between and among neighborhoods and other large areas.
   NATURAL WATERWAY: A natural passageway in the surface of the earth, so
situated and having such a topographical nature that the surface water flows
through it from other areas before reaching a final ponding area. The term also
includes all drainage structures which have been constructed or placed for the
purpose of conducting water from one (1) place to another.
   OWNER: An individual, firm, association, syndicate, copartnership,
corporation, trust or other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest
in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to
subdivide such land under these regulations.
   PEDESTRIANWAY: A public right of way across or within a block for
pedestrians.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership,
corporation, trust or other legal entity.
   PLANNING COMMISSION: The Planning Commission of the City.
   PLAT: A map or drawing which graphically delineates the boundaries of land
parcels for the purposes of identification and record of title. The “plat” is a
recorded legal document and must conform to all State laws.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT: The map or drawing showing the layout of a proposed
subdivision which will be legally described by lot and block descriptions, with
required supporting data.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS: Contracts entered into between private parties,
constituting a restriction on the use of private property within a subdivision
for the mutual benefit of the property owners, to provide protection against
undesirable aspects of development which may tend to impair the stability of
values.
   RESERVE STRIPS: A strip of land placed between lot lines and street to
control access into public lands or leading to public facilities or major
destination points within the community.
   RIGHT OF WAY: Land covered by a public road or dedicated for public use or
for certain private use. The shortest distance between two (2) right-of-way
descriptions shall determine its width.
   SKETCH PLAN: A drawing showing the proposed subdivision of property or
adjacent property not necessarily drawn to scale, and exact accuracy not being
a requirement to illustrate feasibility of the street system or lotting
pattern.
   STREET (PRIVATE): A street, serving as vehicular access to two (2) or more
parcels of land, which is not dedicated to the public but is owned by one (1)
or more private parties.
   STREET (PUBLIC): A way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as street,
collector highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard,
lane, place, drive, court or otherwise which is dedicated to the public.
   STREET WIDTH: The shortest distance between the lines delineating the right
of way of a street.
   SUBDIVIDER: The owner, agent or person having control of a subdivision, as
the term is used in this Title.
   SUBDIVISION: The division of an area, parcel or tract of land into two (2)
or more parcels, tract lots, or long-term leasehold interests where the
creation of the leasehold interest necessitates the creation of streets, roads
or alleys, for residential, commercial, industrial, or other use or any
combination thereof, except those divisions when a new street is being created
by a governmental agency which results in a division of a parcel of land. The
term includes resubdivision and when appropriate to the context, shall relate
to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided or for adjustments in
boundary lines except those separations:
      1.   Where all the resulting parcels, tracts, lots or interests will be
twenty (20) acres or larger in size and five hundred feet (500') in width for
residential uses and five (5) acres or larger in size for commercial and
industrial uses.
      2.   Creating cemetery lots.
      3.   Resulting from court orders.
   SURVEYOR: A land surveyor registered under State laws.
   THOROUGHFARE: A street primarily designed to carry higher volumes of
vehicular traffic than a collector street and providing for vehicular movement
between and among larger areas, designated in the Comprehensive Plan as “minor
arterials” or “arterials”.
   TRACING: A plat or map drawn on transparent material which can be reproduced
by using regular reproduction procedures.
   ZONING ORDINANCE: The zoning ordinance or resolution controlling the use of
land as adopted by the City and as set forth in City Code Title 11.
§ 10-1-6: VARIANCES:
   A.   Application for Variance; Consideration: Applications for a variance
shall be made in writing by the subdivider at the time when the preliminary
plat is filed for consideration. Such application shall state fully all facts
relied upon by the subdivider as to the applicant’s opinion why each variance
finding applies to the property in question. The applications shall be
supplemented with maps, plans or other additional data which aids City staff,
the Planning Commission and City Council in the analysis of the proposed
project. Such variances shall be considered at the same time as the preliminary
plat. Any variance or modification thus considered shall be recorded and
entered in the minutes of the governing body, setting forth the reasons for
granting or denying the variance.
   B.   Findings of Fact: Upon receiving a report from the Planning Commission,
the governing body may grant a variance in any particular case where the
subdivider can show that, by reason of exceptional topography or other physical
conditions, strict compliance to these regulations could infringe on the
reasonable subdivision of the land. Such relief may be granted; provided, there
is no detriment to the public welfare and no impairment of the intended purpose
of this Title and all of the following applicable findings can be met:
      1.   There are unique circumstances or conditions affecting said
property, such that the strict applications of the provisions of this Title
would infringe on the reasonable subdivision of the land.
      2.   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the petitioner.
      3.   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to the other property in the area in which said property
is situated and will not have an adverse effect upon traffic safety.
   C.   Considerations: In making this finding, the City Council shall
consider: 1) the nature of the proposed use of the land and existing use of the
land in the vicinity; and 2) the probable effect of the proposed variance upon
traffic conditions, public or private utilities, or parks in the vicinity.
   D.   Conditions of Variances: In granting variances as herein provided, the
Council shall prescribe conditions that it deems necessary to protect the
public interest. In making a determination, the Council shall find that:
      1.   The proposed subdivision variance will promote the development of a
more desirable project for the community.
      2.   The proposed subdivision variance will be in harmony with adjacent
areas.
      3.   The proposed subdivision variance will not adversely affect the
intent and purpose of the Comprehensive Plan, text or amendments thereto, or
other ordinances of the City.
      4.   The proposed variance will not be contrary to the purpose and intent
of this Title.
CHAPTER 2: PLATTING PROCEDURES
Section
10-2-1: General Platting Requirements
10-2-2: Sketch Plan Preapplication Meeting
10-2-3: Preliminary Plat Procedures
10-2-4: Accelerated Preparation of Plans and Specifications for Public
Improvements
10-2-5: Final Plat Procedures
10-2-6: Effect of Subdivision Approval
10-2-7: Contents of Preliminary Plat Application
10-2-8: Contents of Final Plat Application
§ 10-2-1: GENERAL PLATTING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   When Platting Required: All divisions of property or boundary
adjustments within the City shall be accomplished through the platting process
unless waived by Minnesota Statutes Section 462.358. No conveyance of land by
resulting parcels, tracts, lots or interests, without City approval, shall be
made or recorded unless the resulting parcels, tracts, lots or interests are
twenty (20) acres or larger in size and five hundred feet (500') in width in
residential and agricultural districts, and five (5) acres or larger in size
for commercial and industrial districts, or unless such parcel was a separate
parcel of record at the time of the effective date of the ordinance codified in
this Title, September 16, 1992.
   B.   Exemptions From Platting Requirements: The Council, with the advice of
the Planning Commission, may waive the platting requirement for a registered
land survey in the following cases:
      1.   Rural Subdivision: The division of a single parcel of land into two
(2) separate parcels. The newly created parcels shall meet all requirements of
this Title and be located in the R-1, R-2, AG-1 or AG-2 zoning districts.
      2.   Simple Lot Division:
         a.   A simple, easily described division or boundary adjustment of a
previously platted lot and block of record may be exempted from the full
platting requirement, provided the resultant parcels meet all other
requirements of this Title.
         b.   If a land division is exempted from the platting requirement, a
registered land survey shall be filed and reviewed subject to the same
procedures as are required for the filing of preliminary plat for platting
purposes. All registered land surveys shall be prepared in conformance with
Minnesota Statutes Section 508.47, subdivision 4, which is incorporated herein
by reference. Prior to approval of registered land survey, the Council reserves
the right to require the dedication of streets, utility easements or public
park land or cash in lieu of land to the City, and payment of utility area
charges.
   C.   Conveyance by Metes and Bounds: When a conveyance by metes and bounds
description is made of a parcel to which this Title is not applicable, a survey
shall be submitted to the City staff before any building permits will be issued
for those parcels. A copy of the survey shall be attached to the deed when it
is submitted to the County Recorder of Deeds for recording.
§ 10-2-2: SKETCH PLAN PREAPPLICATION MEETING:
   A.   Meeting Encouraged: In order to ensure that all applicants are informed
of the procedural requirements and standards of this Title and the requirements
or limitations imposed by other City ordinances and the Comprehensive Plan, all
applicants are encouraged to meet with the applicable City staff and
consultants with a prepared sketch plan prior to preparing a preliminary plat.
   B.   Information Required: Fifteen (15) copies of the sketch plan shall be
submitted and drawn to an engineering scale and contain as a minimum the
following information:
      1.   Tract boundaries and dimensions.
      2.   Significant topographic and physical features.
      3.   Proposed general street and lot layout.
      4.   General location of proposed public and private open space areas.
      5.   General drainage and erosion control plan.
      6.   Relationship of the proposal to neighborhood facilities, local
street interconnection, and the like.
      7.   The city may require the subdivider to provide an areawide concept
platting plan at the time of public hearing for all neighboring properties for
coordinated planning.
   C.   Advice and Assistance from City Suggested: The subdividers are urged to
avail themselves of the advice and assistance of the city staff or city
consultants in order to facilitate the approval of the preliminary plat.
However, such advice should not be construed to predict final action by the
Planning Commission or City Council.
§ 10-2-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Preparation And Filing: An application for a preliminary plat shall
conform to all of the requirements enumerated in Section
10-2-7 of this Chapter, accompanied by a completed subdivision application form
or other application forms as may be required, and the required filing fee and
escrow amounts. At least fifteen (15) copies of the application shall be filed
with the director of community development. Exhibits shall be submitted with
the application and conform to the requirements set forth in Section
10-2-7 of this Chapter. An application will not be accepted until all of these
requirements have been met.
   B.   Fees And Escrows:
      1.   At the time of submission of the preliminary plat, all fees and
escrows as established by ordinance of the City Council shall be paid in cash
to the finance director. Once the project is advertised for public hearing,
this application fee is nonrefundable. Unused escrow amounts shall be refunded
upon written request of the subdivider.
      2.   Where the City staff or consultants incur costs in excess of the fee
or escrow submitted, the applicant shall be required to reimburse the City for
the incurred costs. Such reimbursement shall be made prior to signing of the
final plat by the Mayor and City Clerk. Reimbursable costs shall include
charges incurred for written recommendations, printing, mailing, reproduction
and graphic illustration, as well as professional charges for engineering, land
surveying, planning, architectural, legal and other services related to the
application.
   C.   Referrals and Comments:
      1.   Upon receipt of a complete application for a preliminary plat, the
director of community development shall refer copies of the plat map to the
following individuals or bodies:
         a.   The City Engineer;
         b.   School District 833;
         c.   The Minnesota Department of Transportation district engineer, if
the proposed subdivision includes land abutting an established or proposed
trunk highway;
         d.   The County Engineer, if the proposed subdivision includes land
abutting a county or county state aid highway;
         e.   The State Commissioner of Natural Resources, if the proposed
subdivision adjoins a public body of water;
         f.   The applicable Watershed Management District Board, and soil and
water conservation district, if applicable;
         g.   All applicable utility companies;
         h.   The City’s Historical Preservation Officer; and
         i.   Other City personnel, at the discretion of the director of
community development.
      2.   If appropriate, individuals or bodies to which the preliminary plat
has been referred may submit their written comments to the director of
community development one (1) week prior to the public hearing. If no report is
received within this time period, it may be assumed that there are no
objections to the subdivision as submitted.
   D.   Hearing By Planning Commission:
      1.   Time For Hearing: Within forty-five (45) days after the completed
application is filed, the planning commission shall hold a public hearing on
the preliminary plat.
      2.   Notice of Hearing:
         a.   Notice of the purpose, time and place of the public hearing shall
be published in the official newspaper at least ten (10) days prior to the day
of the hearing.
         b.   All property owners within five hundred feet (500') of the
proposed subdivision shall be notified of the public hearing by mail, in
writing. Failure of the Planning Commission to mail the notice or failure of
the property owners to receive the notice shall not invalidate the proceedings.
      3.   Appearances and Presentations: The subdivider or his/her
representatives shall appear before the Planning Commission to answer questions
concerning the plan. All persons interested shall be given an opportunity to
make presentations.
      4.   Facts Considered: The Planning Commission shall study the
practicality of the preliminary plat, taking into consideration the
requirements of the City. The Planning Commission shall study and shall make
recommendations on, and the City Council shall consider, the following:
         a.   The arrangement, location, and width of streets, their relation
to the topography of the land, flood plain regulations, water supply, sewage
disposal, surface drainage and lot sizes and arrangement.
         b.   The present and future development of and access to adjoining
lands.
         c.   The requirements of this Title and the Zoning Ordinance.
         d.   Whether the proposed subdivision is consistent with applicable
specific area plans or the Comprehensive Plan.
         e.   Whether the design is consistent with applicable development
plans or policies and regulations.
         f.   Whether the physical characteristics of the site, including, but
not limited to, topography, vegetation, susceptibility to erosion, flooding and
water storage or retention and flood plain regulations, are suitable for this
type and/or density of development or use contemplated.
         g.   The environmental impact of the subdivision design or proposed
improvements.
         h.   Whether the design of the subdivision or the type of improvement
is consistent with easements of record.
         i.   Traffic considerations.
         j.   Any other aspect affecting the public health, safety or welfare.
      5.   Conditions Imposed: Reasonable conditions may be imposed on the plat
approval to negate any problem areas.
   E.   Report To City Council: The report of the Planning Commission shall be
submitted to the governing body not later than sixty (60) days after the public
hearing. If the Planning Commission fails to make a report, the governing body
may proceed without such report. Failure to receive a report from the Planning
Commission shall not invalidate the proceedings or actions of the governing
body.
   F.   Action by City Council:
      1.   The City Council shall approve or deny the preliminary plat in whole
or in part, within one hundred twenty (120) days of receipt of the preliminary
plat, unless an extension of the review period has been agreed to in writing by
the applicant or required by Minnesota Statutes or other administrative
procedures. If the governing body fails to act within the review period, the
application shall be deemed to be preliminarily approved.
      2.   Approval of a preliminary plat shall be approved in the form of a
resolution by majority vote of the entire governing body. The governing body
may require modifications, changes and revisions, or add conditions to the plan
as it deems necessary to carry out the purpose and intent of this Title, the
Zoning Ordinance or the Comprehensive Plan. Approval of the plan is an
acceptance of the general layout and authorizes the subdivider to complete the
steps necessary for final plat approval in accordance with the terms of
preliminary approval. Such preliminary approval does not constitute final
acceptance of the subdivision.
      3.   If the governing body denies approval of the preliminary plat, the
reasons for such action shall be recorded and transmitted to the applicant
unless otherwise stated in the resolution approving the preliminary plat. Said
preliminary approval shall be for one (1) year from the date of preliminary
plat approval by the governing body unless otherwise stated in the resolutions
approving the preliminary or final plats where development of the project is in
phases.
   G.   Qualifications Governing Approval of Preliminary Plat:
      1.   The approval of a preliminary plat by the City Council shall only
constitute acceptance of the design as a basis for the preparation of the final
plat by the owners or subdividers. Subsequent approval by appropriate officials
having jurisdiction will be required of proposals pertaining to water supplies,
storm drainage, sewage disposal, sidewalks, grading, gradients and roadway
widths, and the surfacing of streets, flooding issues, restrictive covenants
and similar items, prior to the approval of the final plat by the City.
Organizations with appropriate review and approval authority may include, but
are not limited to: Minnesota Department of Natural Resources, U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers, U.S. Department of the Interior, Federal Emergency Management
Agency, Minnesota Environmental Quality Board and the Metropolitan Council, and
the appropriate watershed management organization.
      2.   No plan will be approved for a subdivision which includes any area
subject to periodic flooding or which contains extremely poor drainage
facilities which would make adequate drainage of the streets and lots
impossible. The subdivider must agree to make improvements which will, in the
opinion of the Building Official, Public Works Director and City Engineer or
other approving agencies, make the area completely safe for occupancy while
providing adequate street and lot drainage. These improvements shall not be in
conflict with the City’s flood plain regulations.
   H.   Amendments to Approved Preliminary Plat: Should the applicant desire to
amend an approved preliminary plat, an amended plan shall be reviewed in the
same manner as a new preliminary plat, except for the public hearing and fee.
If an increase in lots is proposed or, in the opinion of the Director of
Community Development, the amendment is of such scope as to constitute a new
plat, a complete application shall be refiled, and fees repaid.
   I.   Time Extensions: At least forty-five (45) days prior to the expiration
of the preliminary plat approval, the subdivider may request a one-year time
extension. The request shall be reviewed by the City staff and a recommendation
forwarded to the City Council addressing such items as potential conflicts with
the Comprehensive Plan or specific area plans; proposed conflicts with policy
changes; changing transportation conditions, sidewalk policies, or applicable
changes to any City ordinances.
§ 10-2-4: ACCELERATED PREPARATION OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR PUBLIC
IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Request for Initiation of Plans and Specifications: After the City has
approved the preliminary plat, the subdivider may request the City to initiate
the preparation of plans and specifications for street, utility, park, etc.,
improvements before the subdivision agreement and final plat are approved by
the City. In doing so, the subdivider shall make such a request in writing, and
attach four (4) copies of the proposed grading plan and final plat, to the
City.
   B.   Conditions of Accelerating Preparation: The City’s consideration in
accelerating the preparation of plans and specifications for the public
improvements will depend on the workload of other projects that already have
City approval. If it is determined that the City can accommodate this work, the
City may authorize the Engineer to commence work on the plat; provided, that
the subdivider deposits cash with the City to pay costs incurred for consulting
engineering and legal services. In the event the consulting services exceed the
deposited amount, the City shall have the option of requiring an additional
cash deposit or may invoice the subdivider for said services. Payment shall be
made by the subdivider within thirty (30) days of the date of the invoice from
the City. If the subdivider proceeds forward with the development, the
deposited amount shall be credited toward the cash deposit required under the
terms of the City’s subdivision agreement. If the development of the plat is
abandoned, and the City fees for consulting services are less than the
deposited amount, the City shall refund with interest the difference between
the deposited amount and the actual cost incurred for consulting services and
administrative charges. The amount required to be deposited will be determined
by the City and will be based on scope and size of the project.
§ 10-2-5: FINAL PLAT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Preparation and Filing: A final plat and application for approval shall
conform to all of the requirements enumerated in Section
10-2-8 of this Chapter. Fifteen (15) copies of the plat and application shall
be submitted, along with the required filing fee and escrow. The subdivider
shall also submit, at the same time, an up to date certified abstract of title
or registered property abstract or title insurance policy or commitment and
such other evidence as the city attorney may require showing title or control
of the land by the subdivider. A final plat application will not be accepted
until all of these requirements have been met.
   B.   Application Fee and Escrows: The subdivider shall pay an application
fee and an escrow in an amount established from time to time by City Council
ordinance. For the consideration of the final plat, the escrow fee shall
provide for payment of reimbursable costs incurred by the city related to the
application. “Reimbursable costs” shall include charges for printing, mailing,
reproduction, and graphic illustration, as well as professional charges for
engineering, land surveying, planning, architectural, legal and other related
reports and services. Where the city incurs reimbursable costs in excess of the
escrow, the applicant shall be required to reimburse the city for said costs.
   C.   Inconsistency of Final Plat: The subdivider shall incorporate all
changes or modifications required by the preliminary plat approval, but in all
other respects, the final plat shall conform to the preliminary plat. If a
report from the director of community development indicates there is a
substantial deviation in the final plat from the approved preliminary plat, the
City Council may determine if the submission shall represent a new plat. If the
submission does represent a new plat, the City Council shall deny the final
plat and direct the subdivider to resubmit the proposal following preliminary
plat requirements.
   D.   Referrals and Comments: Upon receipt of the complete application for
final plat approval, the director of community development shall refer one (1)
copy of the plat map to the school district, the city engineer, applicable
utility companies and the finance director, who shall submit their comments and
recommendations to the director of community development one (1) week prior to
the applicable City Council meeting.
   E.   Action by City Council: The governing body shall take action on the
final plat within sixty (60) days after receipt of the complete application.
The plat shall be approved by a resolution of the governing body. If the plat
is not approved, the reasons for such action shall be recorded in the official
proceedings and transmitted to the subdivider. If the governing body fails to
act within sixty (60) days, and if the applicant has complied with all
conditions and requirements of applicable regulations and all conditions and
requirements upon which preliminary plat approval was expressly conditioned,
the application shall be deemed finally approved.
   F.   Signing and Recordation:
      1.   The City Council shall, by resolution, authorize a member of the
governing body and City Clerk to sign the final plat.
      2.   After approval of the final plat, the applicant shall submit the
plat to the County Surveyor, the designated member of the governing body and
City Clerk may sign the plat, and the subdivider shall then record it with the
County Recorder of Deeds or Registrar of Titles.
      3.   The subdivider shall, immediately upon recording, furnish the
community development director with a reproducible copy, either cronaflex or
its equivalent, of the recorded plat and four (4) prints. Failure to furnish
such copies will be grounds for refusal to issue building permits for lots
within the plat.
   G.   Subdivisions Developed in Stages: In subdivisions to be developed in
stages, the subdivider may be granted permission to prepare a final plat for
only a portion of the approved plan; provided, that such portion conforms with
all the requirements of these regulations. The subdivider may be required, as a
condition of approval, to submit an estimated time schedule for completion of
the platting and recording of the future phases of the subdivision. Each phase
shall be considered a separate final plat.
§ 10-2-6: EFFECT OF SUBDIVISION APPROVAL:
   A.   For one (1) year following preliminary approval and for two (2) years
following final approval, unless the subdivider and the Council agree
otherwise, no amendment to the use, development, density, lot size, lot layout
or dedication or platting required or permitted by the approved application
shall be allowed. Thereafter, the Council may extend the period by agreement
with the subdivider, subject to all applicable performance conditions and
requirements; or the Council may require submission of a new application unless
substantial physical activity and investment has occurred in reasonable
reliance on the approved application, and the subdivider will suffer
substantial financial damage as a consequence of a requirement to submit a new
application.
   B.   In connection with a subdivision involving planned and staged
development, the governing body may by resolution grant the rights referred to
herein for such periods of time longer than two (2) years which is determined
to be reasonable and appropriate. Failure of the subdivider to submit the final
plat or the time extension request within the time lines set forth in this
Title or resolution related to the project shall cause said final plat to be as
modified by City Council resolutions to become null and void.
§ 10-2-7: CONTENTS OF PRELIMINARY PLAT APPLICATION:
   An application for preliminary plat approval shall contain the following
data. Individual items may be waived only with the approval of the Director of
Community Development:
   A.   Identification and Description:
      1.   Proposed subdivision name, which name shall not duplicate, in
spelling or pronunciation, the name of any plat theretofore recorded in the
County.
      2.   Legal description of property.
      3.   Names and addresses of the record owner, any agent having control of
the land, the subdivider, the land surveyor, the engineer and the designer of
the plan and their phone numbers.
      4.   Graphic scale not less than one inch to one hundred feet (1" =
100').
      5.   North point and key map of area showing well-known geographical
points for orientation within a one-half (1/2) mile radius.
      6.   Date of preparation.
      7.   Drawing size shall be a maximum of thirty inches by forty inches
(30" x 40"). The applicant shall also supply the City with a reduction
transparency of the drawing to a size no larger than eleven inches by seventeen
inches (11" x 17"), if the original drawing is larger than the maximum size. A
one to eight hundred (1:800) scale shall also be submitted.
      8.   A certified list of all property owners within five hundred feet
(500') of all boundaries of the affected properties shall be purchased from the
County Surveyor’s office or from a title company.
   B.   Existing Conditions:
      1.   Boundary lines shall be shown clearly and to such a degree of
accuracy that no major changes are necessary in preparing the final plat,
including measured distances and angles.
      2.   Existing zoning classification of site and adjacent properties.
      3.   Total acreage.
      4.   Locations, right-of-way widths and names of existing or platted
streets or other public ways, parks and public lands, permanent buildings and
structures, vegetation masses, easements and section lines, corporate and
School District lines within the plat and to a distance one hundred fifty feet
(150') beyond.
      5.   Locations and sizes of existing sewers, water mains, culverts,
permanent buildings and structures or other underground facilities within the
plat area and to a distance of one hundred fifty feet (150') beyond. Such data
as grades and locations of catch basins, manholes with tentative invert
elevations, hydrants and cross-section street pavement width and type shall
also be shown.
      6.   Boundary lines of adjoining land, within one hundred fifty feet
(150'), identified by name and ownership, including all contiguous land owned
or controlled by the subdivider.
      7.   Existing and proposed grades at two foot (2') contour intervals. For
topographic data, including contours at vertical intervals of not more than two
feet (2'); except, that where the horizontal contour interval is one hundred
feet (100') or more, a one foot (1') vertical interval shall be shown.
Watercourses, marshes, wooded areas, rock outcrops, power transmission poles
and lines, pipelines and other significant features shall also be shown. USGS
datum may be used for all topographic mapping.
      8.   Lowland, water areas, flood plain, floodway and flood fringe limits,
if applicable.
      9.   Percolation tests and soil borings are required if the area being
subdivided does not have a City sanitary sewer available to it. At least one
(1) boring and one (1) percolation test for each lot shall be performed. A map
showing the locations of the tests shall be submitted with the test results.
      10.   If severe soil limitations for the intended use are noted in the
soils handbook on file in the County Soil and Water Conservation District
office, a plan or statement indicating the soil conservation practice or
practices to be used to overcome such limitation shall be made part of the
permit applications.
      11.   If the proposed subdivision is a rearrangement or replat of any
former plat, the lot and block arrangement of the original plat along with its
original name shall be indicated by dotted or dash lines. Also, any roadway of
the original plat to be revised or proposed to be vacated shall be so
indicated.
      12.   Property identification numbers for underlying properties.
      13.   Amount of pending or levied special assessments.
      14.   City sewer, water and storm sewer area charges that have been or
will be levied against the property should be provided. (These charges should
be researched well in advance of the application.)
   C.   Design Features:
      1.   Layout of proposed streets, showing right-of-way widths and proposed
names of streets. The name of any street shall conform to the County street
naming and property numbering system.
      2.   Locations and widths of proposed alleys, pedestrian ways, hard- and
soft-surfaced trails, bikeways and utility easements.
      3.   Layout numbers and preliminary dimensions of lots and blocks,
including the area in square feet of each lot.
      4.   Proposed front, side, and rear building setback lines as required in
the zoning district in which the proposed subdivision is located.
      5.   Proposed gradients of streets, sewer lines and sewer mains, if
requested.
      6.   Areas, other than streets, alleys, pedestrian ways, trails,
bikeways, and utility easements, intended to be dedicated or reserved for
public use, including the size of each area.
      7.   A complete preliminary grading and development plan, showing grades
and elevations at two-foot (2') contour intervals of all streets and lost,
structure pads (with elevations) and surface drainage routes for the entire
subdivision. Sewer line and water main location, size and gradient may also be
required at this time.
      8.   A legend identifying what type of home can be constructed on each
lost, i.e., walkout (wo), rambler (r), split foyer (sf), etc., with building
pad elevations.
   D.   Additional Information:
      1.   Statement of the proposed use of lots, stating type of residential
buildings with number of proposed dwellings with type of business or industry
so as to reveal the effect of the development on traffic, fire hazards and
population densities.
      2.   Source of water supply.
      3.   Provisions for sewage disposal, surface water drainage and flood
control within the flood plain districts shall contain a building site one foot
(1') above the regulatory flood protection elevation. Floodway and flood fringe
boundaries, the regulatory flood protection elevations and the required
elevation of all access roads shall be clearly labeled on all required
subdivision drawing and platting documents.
      4.   If any zoning changes are contemplated, the proposed zoning plan,
including dimensions. Separate zoning applications are required to be
processed.
      5.   Where the subdivider owns property adjacent to that which is being
proposed for subdivision, the director of community development may require the
subdivider to submit a sketch plan of the remainder of the property to show the
possible relationships between the proposed subdivision and the future
subdivision. All subdivisions must be shown to relate well with existing or
potential adjacent subdivisions and land use.
      6.   A statement of the zoning and development status of land parcels
adjacent to the proposed plat.
      7.   A copy of all proposed private restrictions, covenants, and
homeowners’ association documents. The City has no authority or obligation to
enforce said documents. The private covenants must include the following:
         a.   The homeowners’ association is responsible for all ownership and
maintenance of common land area landscaping improvements, common fencing, and
out lots as depicted on the final plat. If the out lot is forfeited for
nonpayment of property taxes and the City obtains ownership, the City will bill
annually each landowner within the subdivision a proportionate cost to maintain
these areas.
         b.   Entrance monument areas, including signs, must be maintained by
the homeowners’ association.
         c.   No barrier or planting should encroach upon or over any public
walkway system.
      8.   Where lots are platted in excess of twenty-four thousand (24,000)
square feet or one hundred sixty feet (160') in width at the building setback
line, a preliminary resubdivision plan may be required, showing a potential and
feasible way in which the lot or lots may be resubdivided in future years for
more intensive use of the land and the placement of buildings or structures
upon such lots.
      9.   Certification by a registered land surveyor to the effect that the
property preliminary plat was properly prepared, and that monuments and markers
shown thereon exist and that all dimensional and geodetic details are correct
where such certification is required by the City.
      10.   Certification showing that all taxes and special assessments
currently due on the property to be subdivided have been paid in full.
      11.   An environmental assessment worksheet (EAW) prepared in a form
approved by the director of community development, if required by City Code
Section
11-2-10.
      12.   Indicate whether said land is registered as torrens or as abstract
property.
      13.   Indicate other information as requested by the department of
community development or department of public works such as sidewalks,
walkways, bikeways, berming or landscaping, with a schedule of plantings or
anticipated ground level building elevation(s).
      14.   All plats within the designated Mississippi River critical area as
defined by Executive Order No. 130 of the Critical Area Act of 1973, Minnesota
Statutes, Chapter 116G, shall indicate setbacks and other items listed in the
zoning ordinance.
      15.   A landscaping plan as requested by the director of community
development to accomplish an incompatible land use transition, improved erosion
control, noise abatement or to improve the living environment.
      16.   An erosion and sedimentation control plan.
      17.   Calculate and graphically describe the amounts and location of cut
and fill determined in cubic yards. Length of storage and prevention measures
for wind and water erosion shall also be indicated.
      18.   Cross sectional profiles matching the scale of drawings and contour
elevations showing elevations of proposed buildings and existing structures.
The number and location of the profiles and structures shall be determined by
the director of community development.
      19.   Other information as may be requested by the Director of Community
Development, City Engineer, Planning Commission or City Council.
§ 10-2-8: CONTENTS OF FINAL PLAT APPLICATION:
   A complete application for final plat approval shall be submitted to the
city with applicable fees and escrows and shall include the following:
   A.   The plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor registered in the state
and shall comply with state statutes, county requirements, and the regulations
of this title. It shall incorporate all required changes, modifications and
revisions required as a condition of preliminary plat approval. Otherwise, it
shall conform to the approved preliminary plat. Unless not acceptable to the
county recorder, the plat shall contain the following information as
applicable:
      1.   Accurate angular and linear dimensions for all lines, angles, and
curvatures used to describe boundaries, streets, alleys, easements, and areas
to be reserved for public use. Dimensions of lot lines shall be shown in feet
and hundredths; no ditto marks will be permitted. When lot lines are not at
right angles to the street right of way line, the width of the lot shall be
indicated.
      2.   A numbered identification system for all lots and blocks.
      3.   A boundary line survey including the measured distances and angles
and the true distance and bearing between a known point on the boundary and the
nearest official monument which shall be accurately described on the plat.
      4.   City, township, county or section lines accurately tied to the lines
of the subdivision by distances and angles.
      5.   Radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent bearings and
lengths of all acres.
      6.   Name and location of the subdivision.
      7.   Accurate location of all monuments.
      8.   Graphic scale and north arrow.
      9.   Names of all streets.
      10.   Location of water bodies.
      11.   If the subdivision is a replatting or rearrangement of a legal
subdivision, the original platting shall be shown by dotted lines.
   B.   Easements or deeds as may be required by the City for ponding areas,
park land dedication or trails, utilities or other similar public purposes.
   C.   Cash, letter of credit or similar guarantees pursuant to Section
10-3-4 of this Title to the City related to performance and/or for installation
of all required public improvements shall be provided by the applicant. These
performance guarantees outlined in this Title or by City Council resolution
shall be presented to the Director of Community Development and approved by the
City attorney prior to the final plat being released for recording.
   D.   A subdivision agreement in conformance with Section
10-3-3 of this Title shall be prepared by the City attorney, for consideration
by the City Council.
   E.   Copies of all proposed deed restrictions, restrictive covenants,
articles of incorporation of homeowners’ associations and any other similar
documents related to the subdivision.
   F.   A map showing the proposed street naming and lot addressing, conforming
to the City’s system.
   G.   Any other information required by appropriate agencies or by the City
Council as a condition of the preliminary plat approval.
   H.   A letter, certified by an engineer or surveyor, attesting to lot square
footage.
   I.    A one to five hundred (1:500) scale, a one to eight hundred (1:800)
scale, and a one to two hundred (1:200) scale Mylar of each final plat shall be
submitted to the Director of Community Development prior to signing of the
final plat for recording.
   J.   Certifications by attached information showing that all taxes and
special assessments currently due on the property to be subdivided have been
paid in full.
   K.   The subdivider shall, immediately upon recording, furnish the City with
a tracing or Mylar and four (4) prints of the final plat showing evidence of
the recording, prior to issuance of any building permits.
   L.   The form for approval by signature of county and city officials
concerned with the recording of the plat is on file in the office of the City
Clerk.
CHAPTER 3: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS; DOCUMENTATION
Section
10-3-1: General Overview
10-3-2: Payment for Facilities Benefiting Entire Community
10-3-3: Subdivision Agreement
10-3-4: Financial Guarantees
10-3-4-1: Subdivider Petitioned Projects
10-3-4-2: Subdivider Financed and Constructed Projects
10-3-5: Inspections and Acceptance
10-3-6: Reduction of Improvement Guarantees
10-3-7: Construction Plans
§ 10-3-1: GENERAL OVERVIEW:
   Minnesota Statutes Section 462.358, subdivision 2A, authorizes the City to
condition approval of the subdivision of property on the construction and
installation of certain utilities. The intent of this Chapter is to
specifically set out the required improvements which promote and protect the
public health, safety and general welfare. The City reserves the right to
require additional improvements if deemed necessary by circumstances and
conditions unique to these particular lands. No subdivision of land is allowed
unless storm sewer, sanitary sewer, a municipal water supply, streets and other
public improvements are constructed to serve the area being divided unless some
other ordinance or statute specifically authorizes said division.
§ 10-3-2: PAYMENT FOR FACILITIES BENEFITING ENTIRE COMMUNITY:
   A.   If the cost of an improvement would, by general policy, be assessed
only in part to the improved property and the remaining cost paid out of
general tax levy, provision may be made for the payment of a portion of the
cost of the improvement, representing the benefit to such lands, to be assessed
against such lands. In such a situation, the subdivider will be required to pay
for only such portion of the whole cost of such improvement as will represent
the benefit to the property within the subdivision.
   B.   Where existing trunk facilities provide the subdivision with a lateral
benefit, an amount equal to the estimated current value of the lateral benefit,
as determined by the City Engineer, shall be paid to the City.
§ 10-3-3: SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT:
   A.   Contents of Agreement: The City shall enter into a contract, known as a
subdivision agreement, with the subdivider/developer. The agreement shall
provide for the completion of the improvements required by this Title. Prior to
the subdivider or City initiating the improvements, the final plat and
resolution shall be recorded, the subdivision agreement and petition under
Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 429 shall be signed, all cash deposits paid, the
financial guarantees shall be posted and approved by the City attorney, and
land required to be dedicated is conveyed to the City. Until completion of the
foregoing, only rough grading or other minor forms of construction can begin.
   B.   Public Improvements:
      1.   The agreement shall require the subdivider/developer to furnish and
construct at the sole expense of the subdivider and at no expense to the City
all the public improvements in accordance with the plans and specifications
prepared by the City Engineer or require the subdivider/developer to petition
the City to furnish and construct improvements in accordance with the plans and
specifications prepared by the City Engineer. The City Engineer shall prepare
preliminary cost estimates for the public improvements, together with the costs
for engineering, legal, fiscal and administrative costs related to the project,
which shall be incorporated into the subdivision agreement.
      2.   The completion date for the public improvements shall be reasonable,
considering the work to be done, the season of the year and proper correlation
of the improvements with construction activities in the subdivision and other
projects which are included within the City improvement contract(s).
      3.   No subdivider who has previously defaulted on work or commitments on
the phases of the original preliminary plat or other projects in the City less
than five (5) years old shall be permitted to start work on any other
subdivision until the defaults are remedied.
      4.   The subdivision agreement shall contain provisions for park
dedication as required in Section
10-4-3 of this Title.
   C.   Boulevard and Yard Improvements:
      1.   The subdivider/developer shall be required to assure the performance
and/or installation of the following:
         a.   Rough grading of all public rights of way.
         b.   Grading and seeding of vacant lots.
         c.   Cutting of grass and weeds, in excess of eight inches (8") in
height.
         d.   Street sweeping and cleaning of storm sewers and holding ponds.
         e.   Installation and maintenance of erosion control devices.
         f.   Boulevard sod, boulevard trees, and yard sod.
         g.   Replacement of trees removed from the right of way.
         h.   Monument replacement.
         i.   Surveyor’s certification of individual lot grading compliance.
         j.   Drainage and erosion control plan compliance.
         k.   Final grading of each lot in subdivisions in compliance with the
approved plan.
         l.   Driveways compliant with Section
11-3-4, “Off Street Parking and Loading”, requirements of this code.
      2.   The subdivider shall not transfer or assign its obligations to
install and pay for boulevard trees, sod and hard surface driveways to the home
builder or purchaser of any lot.
   D.   Private Utilities:
      1.   New Lines to be Underground: All electrical distribution systems
(excluding main line feeders and high voltage distribution lines), telephone
service lines, gas lines, telecommunications lines, cable lines and services
constructed within the confines of and providing service to customers in a
newly platted area, shall be buried underground; unless the City Council, by
resolution, determines that:
         a.   Such requirement would result in unnecessary duplication of
facilities where the property to be served abuts an existing development
already served by overhead facilities; or
         b.   That based upon engineering considerations, underground
installation of such facilities is not feasible in a particular plat or portion
thereof; or
         c.   That the size of the subdivision is too small to justify the
underground installation of such facilities.
§ 10-3-4: FINANCIAL GUARANTEES:
§ 10-3-4-1: SUBDIVIDER PETITIONED PROJECTS:
   A.   Financial Guarantees Required Generally: The subdivider shall be
required to post financial guarantees to ensure completion of all improvements
required by this Title, the preliminary and final plat resolutions, and the
subdivision agreement. The financial guarantees shall be in the form of cash
deposit, irrevocable letter of credit, or other form of financial security
found to be acceptable by the City.
   B.   Public Improvements: One hundred percent (100%) of improvements
including, but not limited to, street lighting, sanitary sewer, water, storm
sewer, curb and gutter, street grading and street bituminous surfacing, shall
be assessed against properties in the subdivision. The developer shall provide
the City with a letter of credit in an amount of forty percent (40%) of the
estimated cost of the improvements, which letter of credit shall guarantee
payment to the City of the assessments.
   C.   Boulevard and Yard Improvements:
      1.   The subdivider shall be required to post financial guarantees in the
amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated costs to assure
completion of the items listed in subsection
10-3-3.C.1 of this Chapter. The financial guarantees shall be subject to
approval by the City attorney before acceptance by the City. The subdivider
shall deposit with the City, from a bank or other reputable and financially
sound institution subject to the approval of the finance director, a letter of
credit guaranteeing performance and completion of improvements/work required by
the subdivision agreement.
      2.   If there is noncompliance with the requirements of this Title, at
any time, the City Administrator can direct the performance of any work
required of the subdivider. Specifically, if on site improvements have not been
installed or structures occupied for forty-five (45) days or longer, the City
Administrator shall direct an inventory for noncompliance on June 15 and
September 15 of each year and may direct the performance of any work heretofore
required of the subdivider. The cost of the City’s performance of any such
work, including labor, equipment and material, shall be paid from the posted
financial guarantees.
§ 10-3-4-2: SUBDIVIDER FINANCED AND CONSTRUCTED PROJECTS:
   A.   Financial Securities: The development contract provided by Section
10-3-3 of this Chapter must require the subdivider to provide financial
securities to the City by a cash deposit, irrevocable letter of credit, or
other form of financial security found to be acceptable to the City as follows:
      1.   Public Improvement Financial Security:
         a.   A financial security must be provided to the City in a sum equal
to one hundred twenty-five percent (125%) of the total cost of the improvements
as estimated by the City Engineer. Of the total amount, twelve percent (12%) or
two thousand dollars ($2,000.00), whichever is the greater, must be posted as a
nonrefundable cash deposit. The financial security and the cash deposit must be
filed with the City prior to release of the final plat for recording. If the
financial security is a letter of credit, it must contain a provision that
prohibits the issuer or surety from terminating the letter of credit without
first giving forty-five (45) days’ written notice to the City of the proposed
termination or expiration. Failure of the developer to post a substitute
security within five (5) days after notice by the City shall constitute a
default that shall be grounds for drawing on the letter of credit. The City
Council may grant a reduction in the financial security upon written request by
the developer based upon the value of the completed work at the time of the
requested reduction. The financial security may not be reduced to less than
twenty percent (20%) of the original amount until all work required of the
developer by this agreement has been completed and accepted by the City. Upon
failure of the developer to perform, the City may declare the agreement to be
in default and the amount of the financial security shall be paid over to the
City. From the proceeds of the financial security, the City shall be reimbursed
for any attorney fees, engineering fees or other technical or professional
assistance, including the work of the City staff and employees, and the
remainder thereof shall be used by the City to complete the work. The developer
shall be liable to the City to the extent that the financial security is
inadequate to reimburse the City its costs and pay for the completion of the
work.
         b.   Items covered by these guarantees must include, but not be
limited to, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, bituminous streets with
concrete curb and gutter, streetlights, trails, sidewalks, and park features.
These financial guarantees are for all of the improvements to be furnished and
installed by the subdivider, pursuant to the development contract, and which
have not been completed prior to filing of the final plat.
         c.   The City is entitled to require reimbursement for additional
expenses if the engineering, inspection, testing, legal, or administration
exceeds the twelve percent (12%) cash deposit or require an additional cash
deposit be made in order to cover these expenses.
      2.   Site Grading, Erosion Control, and Landscaping Financial Security:
         a.   A financial security must be provided by the subdivider to the
City in a sum equal to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the amounts
established for on site improvements by the Department of Community
Development. This financial security must be automatically renewed and shall
not expire until released by the City. This security must be filed with the
City prior to release of the final plat for recording.
         b.   Items covered by this security must include, but not be limited
to, landscaping as required by resolution, mailboxes, utility repair,
adjustment, site grading, erosion control, boulevard trees, landscaping,
irrigation, and lot grading, as well as costs for any entryway sign. These
financial guarantees are for all of the improvements to be furnished and
installed by the subdivider, pursuant to the development contract, and which
have not been completed prior to filing of the final plat.
         c.   The City is entitled to seek reimbursement from the financial
security for any cost and expense incurred by the City for completion of the
work in case of default by the subdivider. Upon completion of the work and
termination of any liabilities to the City by the subdivider under the
contract, the balance remaining of the financial security must be refunded to
the subdivider.
   B.   Engineering/Administrative Cash Deposit:
      1.   In addition to the above required financial securities, the
developer must pay to the City an engineering/administrative cash deposit in
the amount of twelve percent (12%) of the one hundred twenty-five percent
(125%) construction cost for the public improvements.
      2.   The City may use the cash deposit to reimburse itself for costs of
City services, expenses, and materials provided in reviewing and processing of
the final plat including, but not limited to, staff time, legal expenses
incurred in plat approval, office and field checking, office and field grade
verification, erosion control inspection, establishing elevations, and drainage
requirements, general supervision, staking, inspection, purchase and
installation of street identification and traffic control signs, drafting as
built drawings, and all other City staff services performed in the processing
of the improvements and plats, and administrative and legal expenses in
examining title to the property being developed.
      3.   If the amount of the deposit is sufficient to reimburse the City for
its costs under this subsection, the balance of the deposit shall be returned
to developer without interest. If it appears that the actual costs incurred
will exceed the amount of the deposit, the developer and the City shall review
the costs required to complete the project and the developer may be required to
deposit additional sums with the City.
      4.   If all, or a part, of a development has been completed, inspected
and accepted, financial securities for that portion accepted by the City, may
be reduced by the City Council and full or partial payment be returned to the
subdivider (with the exception of the nonrefundable public improvement cash
deposit required by subsection A.1.a of this Section). Any balance remaining in
the account upon completion of all platting conditions must be returned to the
depositor by the finance department after all claims and charges thereto have
been paid and after approval by City Council (with the exception of the
nonrefundable public improvement cash deposit required by subsection A.1.a of
this Section).
§ 10-3-5: INSPECTIONS AND ACCEPTANCE:
   A.   Inspections: The City Engineer shall regularly inspect for defects in
the construction of required improvements on public lands or easements and
shall require the subdivider/developer to conform with the approved plans for
the subdivision.
   B.   Statement to Engineer: Upon completion of grading or construction
improvements, the subdivider shall file with the City Engineer a statement
stipulating the following:
      1.   That all required grading or construction improvements are complete
and in compliance with the standards specified;
      2.   That the subdivider knows of no defects or deviations from any cause
in those improvements; and
      3.   That the grading or construction improvements are free and clear of
any encumbrance or liens.
   C.   Acceptance of Improvements: If the City Engineer has certified that the
aforementioned improvements are complete and free from defect, and upon receipt
of other statements and agreements listed above, the governing body shall
accept the construction of those improvements. The governing body may, at its
discretion, accept the construction of any portion of the required
improvements; provided, that all statements and agreements specified have been
received for that portion of the improvements.
§ 10-3-6: REDUCTION OF IMPROVEMENT GUARANTEES:
   A.   Public Improvements: After assessments for the public improvements have
been paid in full on sixty percent (60%) of the lots within the subdivision for
which the letter of credit is posted, the letter of credit may be reduced as
assessments are paid on the remaining lots. Reduction shall be made two (2)
times per year on February 15 and June 15 upon the request of the developer.
   B.   Other Improvements: Except for the financial guarantees posted to
guarantee payment of the assessments provided for in Section
10-3-4 of this Chapter, the amount of the financial guarantees may be reduced
upon completion of a portion of the improvements required by Section
10-3-3 of this Chapter. The financial guarantee shall be reduced to the value
of the work not completed. In no case shall the financial guarantee be reduced
to less than ten percent (10%) of the original amount of the financial
guarantees for off site improvements and erosion control.
   C.   Release: Upon completion of all of the improvements required by Section
10-3-3 of this Chapter, the City Council shall authorize the release of the
remaining portion of the financial guarantee.
§ 10-3-7: CONSTRUCTION PLANS:
   A.   Construction plans and specifications for the required improvements
conforming in all respects to the standards of the City Engineer and the
ordinances of the City of Cottage Grove must be prepared at the subdivider’s
expense by the City Engineer.
   B.   At the inspection, all required improvements on the site that are to be
installed under the provisions of this Chapter must be inspected during the
course of construction by the City Engineer at the subdivider’s expense, and
acceptance must be subject to the City Engineer’s certificate of compliance
with the contract.
CHAPTER 4: GENERAL SUBDIVISION STANDARDS
Section
10-4-1: Suitability of Land for Subdivision
10-4-2: Preservation of Natural Features
10-4-3: Public Sites and Open Spaces
10-4-4: Solar Access Planning
10-4-5: Cluster and Planned Unit Developments
§ 10-4-1: SUITABILITY OF LAND FOR SUBDIVISION:
   All land may be subdivided. No land will be subdivided into buildable lots
when it is unsuitable for reason of flooding, inadequate drainage, soil and
rock formations with severe limitations for development, severe erosion
potential, unfavorable topography, inadequate water supply or sewer disposal
capabilities, or any other feature likely to be harmful to the health, safety
or welfare of residents of the community or future residents of the proposed
subdivision. In applying this Section, the facts constituting the basis upon
which one (1) concludes that the land is not suitable for a proposed use
affords the subdivider an opportunity to present evidence regarding
suitability.
§ 10-4-2: PRESERVATION OF NATURAL FEATURES:
   A.   A proposed subdivision shall not significantly affect or destroy
natural features or environmentally sensitive areas. The Council may deny
approval of a subdivision if provision is not made for protection of these
areas or the plat is not consistent with the policies contained in the
Comprehensive Plan or the subdivider has not shown that reasonable alternative
subdivision or street locations will not reduce impacts or intrusions into
these areas.
   B.   Subdivision review shall be coordinated with the requirements and
procedures for environmental assessment and impact statements contained in City
Code Section
11-2-10. Any mandatory environmental assessment worksheet (EAW), as required by
the Minnesota Environmental Quality Board Regulations, shall be submitted as
part of the application for preliminary plat approval. At the direction of the
Planning Commission, after review and comment by the Director of Community
Development, an optional EAW for local use only shall be prepared by the
applicant and submitted as a part of the application for any subdivisions which
encompass any one (1) or more of the following:
      1.   Areas of unique wildlife habitat;
      2.   Woodlands;
      3.   Historic sites;
      4.   Steep slopes;
      5.   Wetlands;
      6.   Soils unsuitable for development;
      7.   Surface water bodies or natural watercourses; or
      8.   Any other unique significant environmental features as noted in the
Comprehensive Plan or revealed by a site inspection.
   C.   The optional EAW may be waived by the Director of Community Development
in the case of minor subdivisions or simple lot divisions which have been
exempted from the platting process according to subsection
10-2-1B of this Title.
§ 10-4-3: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section is to provide residents of the
community with public recreation facilities. To accomplish this purpose, the
City requires that when land develops or is subdivided, land shall be dedicated
to the City for public use, or in lieu of dedicating land, cash shall be paid
to the City for purposes of developing recreational facilities.
   B.   Land Dedication; Findings of Fact: No land shall be dedicated to the
City for public use until said land has been approved by the City Council as
being suitable and needed for serving the general public. Such dedicated lands
shall be reserved for public use as parks, playgrounds, public open space or
any combination thereof. It shall be deemed to be in the public interest to
require park dedication from a particular subdivision when the City Council,
after review and recommendation by the Planning Commission and Parks,
Recreation and Natural Resources Commission makes one (1) or more of the
following affirmative findings of fact:
      1.   All or part of the land proposed to be subdivided or developed has
been previously designated as open space, park land or a trailway in the
Comprehensive Plan.
      2.   A need for additional parks or recreational facilities will be
generated by the development of the proposed subdivision.
      3.   The topography provides an opportunity for open space or protection
of scenic views or vistas or separation of incompatible uses.
      4.   The land proposed to be subdivided or developed adjoins existing
park or school open space property, and the City Council further finds that for
the safety and convenience of the public using the parks or the school children
attending the school, a walkway or corridor or open space is a public
necessity.
      5.   All or part of property located in a commercial district proposed to
be subdivided is adjacent to a residentially zoned district, and that an open
space area is or will in the near future be necessary to protect the adjacent
residents from safety or health hazards which are reasonably foreseeable from
any of the permitted or conditional uses which would exist on land to be
subdivided or developed.
      6.   The land proposed to be subdivided or developed contains or borders
upon existing, unique topographical features, including, but not limited to,
ponds, lakes, streams, timber stands, water holding areas, hills or bluffs
which should be preserved or reserved for all the public in order to prevent
foreseeable safety hazards or to provide unique recreational and aesthetic
enjoyment to the people or to maintain the public usefulness for the naturally
created water holding areas.
   C.   Schedule of Dedication Requirements:
      1.   Residential Subdivision and Development:
         a.   Land Dedication: As a general rule, land dedicated for public use
shall be a minimum of ten percent (10%) of the buildable land within the
development. “Buildable land” means the gross acreage of all property in the
proposed plat or subdivision excluding public waters, State or County rights-
of-way, and wetlands designated by Federal or State agencies and classified by
the Wetland Conservation Act, below the high water level of a stormwater basin.
         b.   Cash Amounts in Lieu of Park Land: At the option of the City, the
developer or subdivider shall be required to contribute cash in lieu of land
dedication in accordance with the City Fee Table which can be found on file
with the City Clerk’s Office, or ten percent (10%) of the fair market value,
whichever is greater.
         c.   Combination of Land and Cash: In the event there is land
dedication of less than ten percent (10%), cash payments required by this
subsection shall be paid on a proportional basis.
      2.   Commercial Subdivisions:
         a.   Land Dedication: As a general rule, land dedicated for public use
shall be a minimum of ten percent (10%) of the buildable land within the
development. “Buildable land” means the gross acreage of all property in the
proposed plat or subdivision excluding public waters, State or County rights-
of-way, and wetlands designated by Federal or State agencies and classified by
the Wetland Conservation Act.
         b.   Cash Amounts in Lieu of Park Land: At the option of the City, the
developer or subdivider shall be required to contribute cash in lieu of land
dedication in accordance with the City Fee Table which can be found on file
with the City Clerk’s Office, or four percent (4%) of the fair market value,
whichever is greater.
         c.   Combination of Land and Cash: In the event there is land
dedication of less than four percent (4%) cash payments required by this
subsection shall be paid on a proportional basis.
      3.   Industrial Subdivisions; Cash Amounts in Lieu of Park Land: The City
requires the developer or subdivider of industrial property to contribute cash
in lieu of land dedication in accordance with the City Fee Table which can be
found on file with the City Clerk’s Office, or four percent (4%) of the fair
market value, whichever is greater. Industrial developers or subdividers are
not required to dedicate land.
   D.   Condition of Areas to be Dedicated: The dedicated land areas will
consist of suitable land and will be located so as to best serve the present
and future needs of the neighborhood and community for recreation and park
purposes. Lands below the one hundred (100) year floodplain elevation and land
required for stormwater holding ponds will receive no credit toward the park
dedication requirements. Land in the Northern States Power Company (DBA Xcel
Energy) transmission easement corridor will receive a fifty percent (50%)
credit toward park dedication requirements. Area to be dedicated for public
park, trail, open space or ponding shall be brought to a suitable grade,
seeded, fertilized, planted, or sodded condition by the subdivider. All dead
trees, trash, junk, unwanted structures or similar undesirable elements shall
be removed by the owner or subdivider at the expense of said owner or
subdivider.
   E.   Use of Cash Payments for Parks and Recreation Facilities: Cash payments
received for public recreation space or facilities shall be placed in a special
fund by the City and used only for the acquisition and/or development of land
for parks, playground sites, trails and open space and debt retirement in
connection with land previously acquired for such purposes.
   F.   Reduction of Park Dedication Requirements:
      1.   The City staff shall reduce the amount of land to be dedicated or
cash contributions in lieu of such dedication for certain land dedications
identified in Table 2 of this Section in the allocations noted:
TABLE 2
REDUCTION OF PARK DEDICATION REQUIREMENTS
Land Dedication Dedication Credit Percentage Area Calculation Information
TABLE 2
REDUCTION OF PARK DEDICATION REQUIREMENTS
Land Dedication           Dedication Credit Area Calculation Information
                          Percentage
Active play areas         100               Flat terrain and graded with
                                            no development obstacles
Encumbered properties     50                Area in utility or
                                            conservation easements
Open space - access link  100               Area of dedicated outlot
Steep slope areas         50                Area of dedicated outlot
                                            Accessible areas of
Stormwater basin/pond     50                dedicated outlot between
                                            property line and HWL
                                            Trail corridor width should
Trail corridor - natural  100               provide necessary buffers to
                                            adjacent areas
                                            Trail corridor width should
Trail corridor - paved    100               provide necessary buffers to
                                            adjacent areas
Transportation trail      0                 Trail constructed within
                                            right-of- way
Tree/natural preservation 50                Area of dedicated outlot
area
 
      2.   When there is an application for a subdivision plat that results in
a maximum of two (2) lots and it requires City Council approval, the City
Council may reduce the amount of land to be dedicated and/or cash
contributions. In such circumstances, the City Council must adopt findings of
fact that justify deviating from the standard dedication requirements.
   G.   Common Open Space:
      1.   Townhouses and multi-family projects must have a minimum of fifty
percent (50%) of the total lot area that is devoted to open space consisting of
landscaping, lawn area, or noncommercial outdoor recreational facilities
incidental to the residential development such as, but not limited to private
swimming pools, tennis courts, walkways, common space patio areas, play lots,
basketball courts, etc.
      2.   Common open space adjacent to open space of abutting developments
must be of a size, shape, location, and usability for its proposed purpose.
Commercial agricultural uses do not constitute open space.
   H.   Fair Market Value: For purposes of this Section, “fair market value”
means the value of the land as determined by the City annually based on tax
valuation of the Washington County Assessor’s Office.
§ 10-4-4: SOLAR ACCESS PLANNING:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section is to encourage energy
conservation and the use of solar energy in order to help alleviate the growing
energy shortage and lessen dependence on increasingly uncertain energy sources.
   B.   Development Objectives: All new subdivisions should be designed with
the following objectives in mind:
      1.   All buildings should be oriented to take maximum advantage of
passive solar energy.
      2.   Reasonable assurance should be given that some or all of the
buildings will be able to incorporate active solar energy systems.
      3.   Roads should be oriented to maximize snow melt by passive solar
energy.
      4.   Consideration should be given to easements and/or restrictive
covenants to preserve solar access.
§ 10-4-5: CLUSTER AND PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   Coordination with Zoning Ordinance: The platting of cluster and planned
unit developments shall be coordinated with the site plan review procedures of
the zoning ordinance. Deviations from the minimum design and engineering
standards of this Title may be allowed when consistent with the general intent
and purpose of this Title and the zoning ordinance and where necessary to meet
the goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan. All deviations from these
standards shall be clearly shown on the preliminary plat.
   B.   Private Streets and Utilities:
      1.   All streets and utilities shall be dedicated to the public unless
otherwise approved by the City Council.
      2.   All private streets and utilities shall be built in conformance with
the standards that would otherwise be required for public facilities.
      3.   Any private facilities included in the subdivision agreement and
financial guarantee required by Chapter 3 of this Title shall be provided.
   C.   Homeowners’ Associations: All private streets, utilities, open space,
common area and recreational facilities shall be placed under the control of a
homeowners’ association. A copy of all proposed private restrictions and
covenants, and of the documents creating the association, shall be submitted as
a part of the application for a preliminary plat. These documents shall be
reviewed to assure that adequate provision has been made for the maintenance
and eventual replacement as necessary of all common facilities.
CHAPTER 5: MINIMUM DESIGN AND ENGINEERING STANDARDS
Section
10-5-1: Lots
10-5-2: Blocks
10-5-3: Streets
10-5-4: Alleys
10-5-5: Sidewalks, Walkways, Trails and Bikeways
10-5-6: Utilities
10-5-7: Monuments
10-5-8: Erosion Control During Construction
10-5-9: Resubdividing Combined Parcels
10-5-10: Building and Occupancy Permits
§ 10-5-1: LOTS:
   Unless modified herein, minimum lot area, dimensions and street frontage
shall be determined by the City’s zoning ordinance. Except in the case of
planned unit developments, when some strict requirements may be waived, the
following general standards shall be observed for all lots suitable for
development:
   A.   Required Frontage on Public Way: Each lot shall front upon a public
street. Each lot shall have direct public access or private easement access to
a public street unless restricted by City Council resolution.
   B.   Boundary Prohibition: No lot shall extend over a political subdivision
boundary.
   C.   Lot Grades: Where practical, each lot shall provide a building site at
least eighteen inches (18") above the street grade. Lot grades on lots and
blocks of record shall be verified, prior to issuance of building permits, on a
certificate of survey.
   D.   Remnants of Lots: All remnants of lots below minimum standards in the
applicable zoning district left over after subdividing a larger tract must be
added to adjacent lots rather than allowed to remain as unusable parcels.
   E.   Lots Abutting Bodies of Water:
      1.   Lots with river frontage shall be designed so that lot lines
extended shall maintain the closest approximation to riparian right.
      2.   Lots abutting upon a watercourse, drainage channel or stream shall
have additional depth or width to ensure that building sites are not subject to
flooding. Road access both to the subdivision and to the individual building
sites shall be no lower than two feet (2') below the regulatory flood
protection elevation.
   F.   Through or Double-Frontage Lots: Through or double-frontage lots shall
not be permitted, except where such lots abut a minor arterial or principal
arterial highway. Such lots shall have an additional depth of twenty-five feet
(25') for berming, screening and/or plantings to negate noise and other
potential adverse impacts from higher volume roadways. Vehicular access may be
limited to one (1) street at the time of subdividing.
   G.    Cul-De-Sac Lots: Cul-de-sac lots shall not be narrower than sixty feet
(60') in width at the right of way. An exception can be made in unsewered areas
by the City Council in the case of severe topography where land would be
underutilized without this exception or when developed in a sewered area under
a planned unit development zoning district.
   H.   Corner Lots: Corner lots shall be at least ten feet (10') wider than
interior lots.
   I.    Large Lots: Where lots are platted in excess of twenty-four thousand
(24,000) square feet or one hundred sixty feet (160') in width at the building
setback line, a preliminary resubdivision plan shall be required, showing a
potential and feasible way in which the lot or lots may be resubdivided in
future years for more intensive use of the land and the placement of buildings
or structures upon such lots.
   J.   Transition Lots: Where a proposed subdivision is adjacent to higher
volume roadways, incompatible land uses, zoning districts, or future land uses
identified on the comprehensive plan or amendments thereto, depths of lots
shall be increased by at least twenty-five feet (25') to allow for a
combination of space berming or other landscaping techniques to buffer each
incompatible land use.
   K.   Designation of Lot Square Footage: Lot square footage shall be
designated on the preliminary plat, boundary adjustments or rural subdivisions
or simple lot divisions. A letter shall accompany the final plat, certified by
an engineer or surveyor, stating that all lot sizes meet applicable zoning
requirements and lot identification and final square footages are identified.
   L.   Building Sites: Lots shall be designated and building sites located so
that sufficient lot width and depth are provided for reasonable space for
outdoor living and required parking space is available. Residential living
units built on a slope shall have at least twenty feet (20') of rear yard
usable space at a minimum slope.
   M.   Minimum Rear Lot Line: Where practical, all lots should have a minimum
of thirty feet (30') in width at the rear lot line.
   N.   Natural Features: Subdivision design shall be sensitive to such items
as rock outcropping, tree growth, drainage and watercourses, slopes and bluffs.
The design and grading plan shall strive to preserve those that add
attractiveness or environmental sensitivity to the proposed development.
§ 10-5-2: BLOCKS:
   A.   General Requirements: Block length and width or acreage within boundary
streets shall accommodate the size of the residential lots required in the area
by Title 11 of this Code and provide for convenient access, circulation control
and safety of street traffic.
   B.   Length: In residential areas, other than water frontage, blocks shall
not be less than six hundred feet (600') nor more than one thousand eight
hundred feet (1,800') in length, measured along the greatest dimension of the
enclosed block area, unless minor variances are necessitated by topography or
conformance with an adjoining plat.
   C.   Crosswalks: In blocks over nine hundred feet (900') long, pedestrian
crosswalks may be required pursuant to Section
10-5-5 of this Chapter.
   D.   Widths: Blocks shall be wide enough to allow two (2) tiers of lots with
the minimum depth required by Title 11 of this Code, except where one (1) tier
lots are necessary because of topographical conditions.
   E.   Commercial And Industrial Areas: Blocks for commercial and industrial
areas may vary from the elements of design contained in this Section if the
nature of the use requires.
§ 10-5-3: STREETS:
   A.   General Standards:
      1.   Proposed streets shall conform to the state road and county highway
plans as have been prepared, adopted and/or filed as prescribed by law, and to
the City’s comprehensive plan.
      2.   Streets shall be logically related to the topography to produce
usable lots and reasonable grades.
      3.   Local streets shall be laid out to discourage their use by through
traffic.
      4.   Where adjoining areas are not subdivided but may be subdivided, the
arrangement of streets shall make provision for the projection of streets into
adjoining areas, by carrying the new streets to the boundaries of the new
subdivision at appropriate locations. The street arrangement shall not cause
hardship to owners of adjoining land in platting their own land and providing
convenient access to it.
      5.   Half or partial streets will not be permitted, except where
reasonable subdivision of a tract is in conformance with other requirements and
standards of this Title and where satisfactory assurance for dedication of the
remaining part of the street right of way can be secured. Wherever a tract to
be subdivided adjoins an existing half or partial street, the part of the
street within such tract shall be platted.
      6.   Dead end streets shall be prohibited, except as stubs to permit
future street extension in adjoining tracts or when designed as cul-de-sac
streets. Temporary turnarounds shall be provided.
      7.   Private streets shall be prohibited, unless approved by the City
Council as part of a planned unit development subdivision or overlay district.
      8.   Subdivisions abutting arterial roads, as defined in the
comprehensive plan must include a buffer strip meeting the requirements in City
Code Section
11-3-12.
      9.   All landscaped medians and cul-de-sac islands must be landscaped. A
landscape plan must be submitted to the City for review and approval.
      10.   A uniform landscape design, utilizing natural landscape plantings
and materials, must be installed around the perimeter of all ponds,
infiltration basins, and similar drainage features.
      11.   A uniform mailbox design must be approved as part of the
preliminary plat review and approval process.
   B.   Minor Arterials and Collector Streets:
      1.   Access of minor streets onto state and county state aid highways, or
to streets designated as collectors or minor arterials, shall be prohibited at
intervals of less than six hundred sixty feet (660').
      2.   Where a proposed plat is adjacent to a minor arterial street, there
shall be no direct vehicular access from individual lots to such streets and
roads. In platting small tracts of land fronting on minor arterials where there
is no other alternative, a temporary entrance may be granted; as neighboring
land is subdivided and more preferable access arrangements become possible,
such temporary access permits shall become void.
      3.   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or planned
collector or minor arterial street or a railroad right of way, a street
approximately parallel to and on each side of such thoroughfare and right of
way may be required for adequate protection of residential properties and
separation of through and local traffic. Such service streets shall be located
at a distance from the major thoroughfare or railroad right of way suitable for
the appropriate use of the intervening land, as for park purposes in
residential districts or for commercial and industrial purposes in appropriate
districts. Such distances shall also be determined with due regard for the
requirements of approach grade and future grade preparations.
   C.   Street Widths:
      1.   Minimum right of way widths and pavement widths, face to face of
curb, for each type of public street or road shall be as follows:
Type of Street Right of Way Width Roadway Width
Type of Street                Right of Way Width Roadway Width
Minor arterial street         120 - 160 feet     As determined by traffic needs
Collector street/residential  80 feet            48 feet
Commercial/industrial         80 - 120 feet      52 feet
collector service street
Local street                  60 feet            32 feet
Local street - East Ravine    60 feet            28 feet
neighborhood 1 north
Cul-de-sac turnaround radius  60 feet            47 feet
Cul-de-sac/rural other than a 60 feet            28 feet
collector roadway
 
      2.   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing street of
inadequate right of way width, additional right of way width shall be provided.
      3.   Additional right of way and roadway widths may be required to
promote public safety and convenience when special conditions require, or to
provide parking space in areas of intensive use.
      4.   Extensions of existing streets with lesser right of way widths than
prescribed above may be permitted only as a part of a “planned unit
development” as defined in the zoning ordinance.
   D.   Cul-De-Sac Streets:
      1.   Cul-de-sac streets, permanently designed as such, shall not exceed
six hundred feet (600') in length, except where, by reason of unfavorable land
form or the irregular shape of the land, a normal pattern cannot be
established, or that land would be underutilized.
      2.   Unless future extension is clearly impracticable or undesirable, the
turnaround right of way shall be placed adjacent to a subdivision property
line, and a right of way of the same width as needed for the type of street
shall be carried to such property line in such a way as to permit future
extension of the street into the adjoining tract. At such time as such a street
is extended, the acreage covered by the turnaround outside the boundaries of
the extended street shall revert in ownership to the property owner fronting on
the temporary turnaround.
   E.   Street Grades:
      1.   Streets shall be graded in accordance with the plan approved by the
City Engineer. The grading shall include the entire width of the right of way
and shall provide a boulevard section in addition to the minimum pavement
width.
      2.   Centerline gradients shall be at least five-tenths percent (0.5%)
and shall not exceed the following:
 
Classification                        Gradient
Minor arterials and collector streets 5%
Local streets                         8%
 
      3.   Different connecting street gradients shall be connected with
vertical curves. Minimum length, in feet, of these curves shall be twenty (20)
times the algebraic difference in the percent of grade of the two (2) adjacent
slopes.
   F.   Pavement: All streets and alleys shall be improved with concrete or
bituminous surface and with concrete curb and gutter, except as may otherwise
be approved by the governing body for rural areas identified in subsection F.2
of this Section.
      1.   Urban Areas:
         a.   The design of street pavement for all streets covered by this
Title shall be in accordance with the state transportation department “Road
Design Manual No. 5-291” for flexible pavements. The design thickness of the
surfacing elements shall be in accordance with the flexible pavement design
standard for road classifications as follows:
 
Classification                Pavement Design: Axle Load
Minor arterial, collector and As determined by projected traffic needs
commercial service streets
Local streets                 7 ton minimum
 
         b.   To determine subgrade soil classifications, soil samples shall be
collected and analyzed by a reputable testing laboratory. The soil analysis
shall be submitted to the engineer with the pavement plans. Soil samples shall
be taken along the centerline of the proposed road, at intervals not exceeding
three hundred feet (300').
         c.   Concrete curbs and gutters shall be constructed on both sides of
streets. The construction shall be in accordance with “Standard Specification
for Highway Construction”, State Highway Design Specification No. 2531.
Concrete curb and gutter cross sections shall be either Design No. B618 or
Design D.
      2.   Rural Areas:
         a.   Unless otherwise approved by the Council, new streets in rural
areas shall be improved to urban standards. The Council may approve streets to
be surfaced with gravel if there will be three (3) or fewer lots abutting the
proposed street.
         b.   Streets which will have only a gravel surface shall be so
designed that the base and subbase requirements of state transportation
department “Road Design Manual No. 5-291” for flexible pavement are met. At
least the top six inches (6") of the street surface shall be of class 5 gravel
or a material approved by the engineer.
   G.   Intersections and Street Jogs:
      1.   The angle formed by intersecting streets shall not be less than
sixty degrees (60°), with ninety-degree (90°) intersections preferred.
      2.   Intersections of more than four (4) corners shall be prohibited.
      3.   Roadways of street intersections shall be rounded by a radius of not
less than fifteen feet (15'). Roadways of alley-street intersections shall be
rounded by a radius of not less than six feet (6'). Corners at the entrance to
the turnaround portion of cul-de- sacs shall be rounded by a radius of not less
than fifteen feet (15').
      4.   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one hundred fifty
feet (150') shall not be allowed.
      5.   When connecting street lines deflect from each other at any one (1)
point by more than ten degrees (10°), they shall be connected by a curve with a
radius of not less than two hundred seventy-five feet (275') unless waived by
the City Council.
   H.   Boulevard and Yard Improvements:
      1.   In urban and rural areas, all boulevards and yards must have a
minimum of four inches (4") of organic topsoil or black dirt placed on them and
then be sodded as specified in this Title.
      2.   Driveways shall be constructed from the curb to minimum structural
setback and the width of the proposed driveway in all the R-3 and R-4 zoning
districts. The driveway shall be constructed of four-inch (4") thick asphalt or
air intrained concrete three thousand (3,000) psi, brick pavers or better. This
provision is not required in rural zoning districts.
   I.   Street Trees: See Section
11-3-12(D)(1).
   J.   Sodding of Residential and Commercial Lots:
      1.   The entire lot area, except for areas proposed for landscape beds
and below the high water elevation for storm water basins for all residential
and commercial lots in new developing urban areas must be sodded.
      2.   All residential and commercial lots in rural areas shall be sodded
from the street curb to the minimum front yard setback line of the zoning
district therein located.
   K.   Street Names and Signs:
      1.   Names of new streets shall not duplicate existing or platted street
names unless a new street is a continuation of, or in alignment with, the
existing or platted street, in which event, it shall bear the name of the
existing or platted street. Street names shall conform to the county uniform
street naming and property numbering system.
      2.   All street signs shall be provided and installed by the City at the
expense of the subdivider.
§ 10-5-4: ALLEYS:
   A.   Residential Areas: Alleys shall not be permitted in residential areas.
   B.   Industrial or Commercial Areas: Alleys may be required in industrial or
commercial areas if necessary, subject to the following standards:
      1.   All alleys shall have a right of way at least twenty-four feet (24')
in width and a pavement width of at least twenty feet (20').
      2.   All alleys shall be improved with a concrete or bituminous surface
and concrete curb and gutter.
§ 10-5-5: SIDEWALKS, WALKWAYS, TRAILS, AND BIKEWAYS:
   A.   Where Required:
      1.   In residential districts developed at a density of ten (10) or more
dwellings per acre, sidewalks shall be installed on both sides of all public
streets.
      2.   Sidewalks or trails shall be installed on both sides of all minor
arterial and collector streets.
      3.   In blocks over nine hundred feet (900') long, eight foot (8') wide
paved pedestrian trails/crosswalks may be required through the blocks in
locations where such crosswalks are deemed necessary to public health,
convenience and necessity. Suitable paving, fencing or screening shall be
provided by the subdivider.
   B.   Design Standards:
      1.   All sidewalk widths shall be a minimum of five feet (5').
      2.   Sidewalks shall slope one-fourth inch (1/4") per foot away from the
property line, and the profile grade shall not exceed eight percent (8%).
      3.   All sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete at least four inches
(4") thick. At least three inches (3") of gravel shall be placed under all
sidewalks. Where sidewalks intersect at street intersections, the area between
the property line and the curb shall be filled in as additional sidewalk, and
the apron shall be handicap accessible per design requirements of the City
Engineer.
      4.   Notwithstanding a waiver of the requirements for the immediate
construction of sidewalks, all streets shall be graded within the rights of way
for future sidewalk construction.
      5.   Pedestrian crosswalks/walkways/bikeways between lots shall be
required in locations deemed necessary to provide access to public facilities.
Sidewalks at least five feet (5') in width shall be required in all pedestrian
crosswalks.
§ 10-5-6: UTILITIES:
   A.   Trunk Facilities: Where a larger size water main, sanitary sewer, storm
drain or similar facility is required to serve areas outside the subdivision,
the larger facility required must be constructed. Additional cost is to be
borne by the benefiting properties, and the assessments are to be determined by
the governing body where existing trunk facilities provide the subdivision with
a lateral benefit. An amount equal to the estimated current value of the
lateral benefit, as determined by the City Engineer, shall be paid to the City.
   B.   Sewer and Water:
      1.   Urban Areas:
         a.   Sewer Lines:
            (1)   No public sanitary sewer facilities shall be extended which
are not in conformance with the utility staging plan of the City’s
comprehensive plan.
            (2)   Where trunk line sanitary sewer facilities are available, the
subdivider shall install sanitary sewers and connect such sanitary sewers to
such trunk line sewers. Extensions of the public sewer system shall be designed
to provide public sewer service to each lot.
            (3)   All sanitary sewers shall be inspected by the City by means
of television, at the subdivision expense, prior to their acceptance by the
City. In the event that such facilities are not available but, in the opinion
of the City Council, can be made available within a reasonable period of time,
such sewers and all necessary laterals extending from the main sewer to the
street curb shall be installed and capped for future connection as service
becomes available.
            (4)   Unless otherwise required, a minimum eight-inch (8") sanitary
sewer pipe shall be placed at grades approved by the engineer. Mains over eight
inches (8") in size may be required, and the additional cost may be borne by
the City. Service wyes shall be four inches (4"); rubber or plastic compression
joints are required.
         b.   Water Mains:
            (1)   Where mains from public water system are available, the
subdivider shall install water mains on the plat and connect such mains to such
public water system.
            (2)   Extensions of the public water supply system shall, when
available, be designed to provide public water service to each lot. Such
extensions shall comply with the criteria, recommendations and policies of the
comprehensive water system plan, if applicable, or if not, as required by the
City Engineer.
            (3)   A minimum water main of six-inch (6") ductile iron pipe or
other approved pipe shall be required. Mains eight inches (8") in size or
larger may be required, and the additional cost may be borne by the community.
         c.   Building Services: Each applicable building service shall be run
from the main to the property line where a cap or plug shall be placed until
the service is extended to the structure. A one-inch (1") type K copper water
service, corporation cock, curb box and stop, and four-inch (4") standard
weight cast iron soil pipe sewer service shall be minimum requirements and may
be placed in a common trench.
      2.   Rural Areas:
         a.   Sewage Disposal Systems:
            (1)   Where lots cannot be connected with a public sewerage system,
provision must be made for sanitary sewerage facilities, consisting of a
central treatment plant or individual disposal devices for each lot. This does
not mean that the installation of individual disposal devices shall be at the
expense of the subdivider.
            (2)   Any subdivision or lot not provided with off site sewer
facilities shall be subject to soil and percolation tests to determine whether
the lot size proposed will meet minimum standards of health and sanitation due
to limitations of soils as shown on existing soils maps. The lot area and
topography must be such that it will accommodate an adequate disposal system to
serve the residence for the estimated unsewered years, as determined by the
governing body. Such test shall be made at the expense of the subdivider, and a
sketch map shall be submitted to identify the specific locations where tests
were made. At least two (2) soil borings and two (2) percolation tests shall be
performed on each proposed lot for the purpose of siting both a primary and
secondary drainfield.
            (3)   All sewage disposal systems shall comply with the standard of
WPC-40 as interpreted by State Pollution Control Agency Rules 7080 and
Minnesota Rules Part 6120, the utilities element of the comprehensive plan, and
any other regulations adopted by the City for their installation and
maintenance. All on site system designers and installers shall be certified by
the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
            (4)   In any situation where the Council approves the installation
of on site disposal units, they shall be so located as to permit the easiest
and least expensive connection to the sewer when it becomes available and
usable. Where such on site units are installed, the builder shall provide
underground plumbing ten feet (10') beyond the footing and plugged. The area
around the stack shall be so scored that the septic tank line can be
disconnected and connection made with the public sanitary sewer system.
            (5)   When an individual sewage system is used and the septic tank
is placed on a side other than that from which the public sewer line would
connect, a capped sewage disposal line shall be extended from the point of
ground entrance of the basement or house to a point ten feet (10') beyond and
to the side from which the future sewer connection will be made. Inside the
basement, the elbow shall be set up to be easily reversed for connection to the
capped line.
         b.   Water; Individual Wells: An individual well shall produce at
least ten (10) gallons per minute, have a well casing at least four inches (4")
in diameter and be grouted to provide a safe, potable water supply.
   C.   Storm Water Drainage: A drainage system design shall be required that
conforms to the city’s surface water plan, and may include a storm sewer system
or a system of open ditches, culverts, pipes, catchbasins and ponding areas, or
both systems. Such facilities and easements shall be installed as will
adequately provide for the drainage of surface water; drainageway easements or
land dedication may be required when such easements or land is needed in the
public interest for purposes of floodplain management, proper drainage,
prevention of erosion, pedestrian access to water bodies or other public
purpose. If there is a watershed district, that board must approve all surface
water drainage. All such systems shall conform to all City drainage plans and
to the City’s comprehensive plan.
   D.   Easements:
      1.   Easements at least ten feet (10') wide, centered on rear and other
lot lines as required, shall be provided for utilities where necessary. Where
underground utilities are being installed, a front or side yard easement may be
required. These easements shall be shown on the plat.
      2.   Easements shall be provided along each side of the centerline of any
watercourse or drainage channel, whether or not shown on the comprehensive
plan, to a width sufficient to allow for maintenance of storm sewers.
      3.   Utility and drainage easements shall be dedicated for the required
use.
   E.   Utility Location:
      1.   When practicable and feasible, all utilities shall be placed
underground. All underground work shall be completed prior to street surfacing.
All utility lines for telephone and electrical service shall be placed in rear
line easements when carried on overhead poles.
      2.   Unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer and the Public Works
Director, all utilities shall be constructed out from the curb line a distance
of no more than eight feet (8').
   F.   Street Lighting: All subdivisions shall contain street lighting if a
new public street is constructed in a manner that conforms to City policy.
§ 10-5-7: MONUMENTS:
   A.   Monuments Required: All subdivision boundary corners, block and lot
corners, road intersection corners and points of tangency and curvature shall
be marked with survey monuments meeting the minimum requirements of state law.
All federal, state, county or other official benchmarks, monuments or
triangulation stations adjacent to the property shall be preserved in precise
position unless a relocation is approved by the controlling agency. These
monuments shall be set within one (1) year after recording of the final plat,
or sooner if specified in the subdivision agreement. Said placement shall be a
part of the financial guarantees for the subdivision.
   B.   Specifications: All lot corner pipes or iron rods shall be a minimum of
one-half inch (1/2") in diameter and eighteen inches (18") in length, and shall
be inscribed with the registration number of the land surveyor making the
survey. All unmonumented quarter corners and section corners will be set by the
County Surveyor.
§ 10-5-8: EROSION CONTROL DURING CONSTRUCTION:
§ 10-5-9: RESUBDIVIDING COMBINED PARCELS:
   Any parcel of land, either platted or unplatted, that has been combined for
tax purposes or for other reasons cannot be reseparated without a simple lot
division, rural subdivision or plat approved by the City Council in a manner
prescribed in this Title.
§ 10-5-10: BUILDING AND OCCUPANCY PERMITS:
   A.   Compliance with Provisions: No building permits will be issued by the
City for the construction of any building or structure on any lot in the
“subdivision” as defined herein which has been approved for platting until all
requirements of this Title have been fully complied with and until utility and
street construction contracts have been awarded. No building permit shall be
issued for a lot not having the required right of way frontage on a public
street in the zoning district in which it is located unless the lot complies
with provisions of Section
11-3-2 of this Code.
   B.   Utilities Required: No occupancy shall be granted until public and/or
private utilities are available. Where building permits are issued as provided
in subsection A of this section, the building or units therein shall not be
occupied (except model homes) until said building(s) are provided with public
sewer and water service, private services (gas, telephone, electricity, sewer
and water) and an improved public street to the extent that the street is
graded and gravel surfaced.
   C.   Nonliability of City: Where a building permit is issued under
subsection B of this Section, the person to whom the permit is issued proceeds
at his/her own risk and the City assumes no obligation to provide public
services within a specified time limit.
TITLE 11: ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1: PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS
Section
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Intent and Purpose
11-1-3: Rules of Construction; Definitions
§ 11-1-1: TITLE:
   This Title shall be known, cited and referred to as the Cottage Grove Zoning
Ordinance or Zoning Ordinance, except as referred to herein, where it shall be
known as “this Title”.
§ 11-1-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   This Title is adopted for the purpose of:
   A.   Protecting the health, safety, morals, comfort, convenience and general
welfare of the public.
   B.   Dividing the City into zones and districts and restricting and
regulating therein the location, construction, reconstruction, alteration and
use of structures and land.
   C.   Promoting orderly development of the residential, business, industrial,
recreational and public areas.
   D.   Providing adequate light, air and convenience of access to property.
   E.   Limiting congestion in the public right of way.
   F.   Preventing overcrowding of land and undue concentration of structures
by regulating the use of land and buildings and the bulk of buildings in
relation to the land and buildings surrounding them.
   G.   Providing for the compatibility of different land uses and the most
appropriate use of land throughout the City.
   H.   Providing for an orderly transition from a rural to an urban or
suburban environment.
   I.   Establishing standards and procedures regulating land use.
§ 11-1-3: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Rules of Construction: The language set forth in the text of this Title
shall be interpreted in accordance with the following rules of construction:
      1.   The word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary; the word “may”
is permissive.
      2.   The word “lot” shall mean a buildable and properly zoned lot, unless
otherwise defined herein and shall include the words “piece”, “plot”, and
“parcel”.
      3.   The phrase “used for” shall include the phrases “arranged for”,
“designed for”, “intended for”, “maintained for” and “occupied for”.
   B.   Definitions: The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this
Title shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this Title except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   ABUTTING: Having a common border with or being separated from such a common
border by a right-of-way, alley, or easement.
   ACCESSORY APARTMENT: A separate dwelling unit contained within an existing
single-family structure, to be occupied by another family as a separate,
complete housekeeping unit, isolated from the original unit. The existence of
separate cooking facilities shall distinguish an accessory apartment from the
renting of rooms for lodging purposes.
   ACCESSORY GARAGE: An uninhabitable accessory building having walls and a
roof which is used for the storage of motor vehicles and other items owned by
the occupants of the principal building.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: An uninhabited subordinate building or structure that
is detached from the principal structure on the same lot, the use of which is
subordinate to the principal use on the property.
   ACCESSORY USE: A use incidental and subordinate to the principal use or
building and located on the same lot. In no case shall such “accessory use”
dominate in area, extent, or purpose of the principal lawful use or building.
   ADULT USES: See Title 3, Chapter 14.
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING: A structure on agricultural land as defined in
Minnesota Statutes Section 273.13, subdivision 23, designed, constructed and
used to house farm implements, livestock, or agricultural produce or products
used by the owner, lessee, and sublessee of the building and members of their
immediate families, their employees, and persons engaged in the pickup or
delivery of agricultural produce or products.
   AGRICULTURAL SERVICE: An establishment primarily engaged in performing
agricultural, animal husbandry or horticultural services of fee or contract
basis including, but not limited to, agricultural produce and dairy processing,
crop dusting, and grain cleaning.
   AGRICULTURAL USE: The use of land for the growing and/or production of field
crops, livestock, and livestock products, including but not limited to the
following:
      1.   Field crops, including: barley, soybeans, alfalfa, corn, hay, oats,
potatoes, rye, sorghum, and sunflowers.
      2.   Livestock, including: alpacas, dairy and beef cattle, deer, donkeys,
goats, horses and ponies, llamas, mules, sheep, pigs, hogs, chickens, turkeys,
ducks and other poultry, fish, mink, and game birds.
      3.   Livestock products, including: dairy, eggs, meat, and feathers.
      4.   Tree farms.
   ANTENNA: Any structure or device used for the purpose of collecting or
radiating electromagnetic waves.
   AUAR or ALTERNATIVE URBAN AREAWIDE REVIEW: An alternative form of
environmental review to determine impacts within a defined area as detailed in
Minnesota Rules Part 4410.3610. The content and format of an AUAR is similar to
that of an EAW, but provides for a level of analysis comparable to that of an
EIS.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR: General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of
engines, motor vehicles or trailers, including body work, framework, welding
and major painting service.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR: The replacement of any part or repair of any part
which does not require removal of the engine head or pan, engine transmission
or differential; incidental body and fender work, minor painting and
upholstering service. Above stated is applied to passenger vehicles and trucks
not in excess of seven thousand (7,000) pounds gross weight.
   BASEMENT: Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its floor
or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four (4) sides, regardless of the
depth of excavation below ground level.
   BRICK: A unit of building material that is made of clay or shale and
subjected to heat treatment at elevated temperatures through a firing process.
Brick used as an exterior wall surface finish must meet all of the requirements
for anchored veneer as proscribed by the Uniform Building Code.
   BUILDING: Any structure having a roof which may provide shelter or enclosure
of persons, animals or chattels. When such structure is divided by party walls
without openings, each portion of such building so separated shall be deemed a
separate building.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building in which the primary use of the lot on which
the building is located is conducted.
   BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the average elevation of the
adjoining ground level, or the established grade adjacent to the building,
whichever is lower, to the top of the cornice of a flat roof, to the deck line
of a mansard roof, to a point of the roof directly above the highest wall of a
shed roof, the uppermost point on a round or other arch type roof, to the
highest gable on a pitched or hip roof.
   CATERING: An establishment that prepares food for off-site consumption.
   CEMETERY: A parcel or tract of land used or intended to be used as the final
resting place of the dead, including burial grounds, and mausoleums.
   CITY COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of Cottage Grove, Minnesota.
   CLUB OR LODGE: A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members,
paying annual dues. The use of the premises is restricted to members and their
guests. It shall be permissible to serve food and meals on such premises;
provided, that adequate dining room space and kitchen facilities are available.
Serving of alcoholic beverages to members and their guests shall be allowed;
provided, that such serving is secondary and incidental to the operation of the
dining room for the purpose of serving food and meals; and provided further,
that such serving of alcoholic beverages is in compliance with the applicable
federal, state and municipal laws.
   COLLOCATION: The location of two (2) or more antennas on a structure or
structure.
   COLUMBARIUM: A place such as a vault for the respectful and usually public
storage of cremated human remains within cinerary urns. Columbaria are
accessory to places of assembly for worship, cemeteries or mausoleums.
   COMMERCIAL HORTICULTURE: The growing of fruits, vegetables, flowers or
plants for sale.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION: Commercial use of a building or premises for sports
or leisure activities and/or rentals.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE, CLASS I: Vehicles including, but not limited to, the
following: semitrailers, garbage trucks, tank trucks, dump trucks, flatbed
trucks, cattle trucks, trucks carrying or designed to carry explosive or
flammable materials, well drilling equipment, earthmoving equipment, school
buses designed to carry sixty-six (66) or more persons or other large vehicles
similar either by use or size, except the tractor portion of semitrucks.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE, CLASS II: Commercial pickup trucks and vans, the tractor
portion of semitrucks, tow trucks, recreational vehicles which are used for
commercial purposes and other commercial vehicles not defined in “Class I”.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE: A parcel or parcels of land or an area of water or a
combination of land and water within a development site which is designated and
intended for the use and enjoyment of the development’s residents.
   COMMON PROPERTY: Any open space or structure including parks, nature areas,
playgrounds, trails and recreational buildings and structures, which is an
integral part of a development and is not owned on an individual basis by each
owner of the dwelling unit.
   COMMUNITY CENTER: A facility owned and operated by a governmental agency or
a nonprofit community organization; provided, that the primary purpose of the
facility is for recreation, social welfare, community improvement, or public
assembly.
   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR: The officer or person charged with the
administration and enforcement of this Title or designee.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A compilation of goals, policy statements, standards,
programs and maps for guiding the physical, social and economic development,
both public and private, of the City. The plan includes a unit or part of such
plan separately adopted and any amendment to such plan or parts thereof.
   CONDITIONAL USE: A specific type of structure or land use listed in the
official control that may be allowed but only after an in-depth review
procedure and with appropriate conditions or restrictions.
   COTTAGE FOOD OPERATION: An individual person who prepares, at the person’s
residence, non-potentially hazardous food subject to requirements in Minnesota
Statutes Section 28A.152.
   DAYCARE CENTER (CHILD OR ADULT): Any facility operated for the purpose of
providing care, protection and guidance to ten (10) or more individuals during
only part of a twenty-four (24) hour day. This term includes nursery schools,
preschools, day care centers for individuals, and other similar uses but
excludes public and private educational facilities or any facility offering
care to individuals for a full twenty-four (24) hour period.
   DECK: A roofless platform, either freestanding or attached to a building,
that is supported by pillars or posts.
   DENSITY GROSS: The total number of dwelling units per gross acre of land.
   DENSITY, NET: The total number of units divided by the total land area less
major road rights-of-way (arterials and collectors) and less wetlands protected
by the Wetland Conservation Act, provided that right of way (including major
roads) shall not be deducted if dedicated to the City at no cost.
   DENSITY TRANSFER: The relocation of housing units or square footage of
building area computed on part of a building site to another part of the same
site resulting in an increase in density to the transfer area for the purpose
of preserving open space, forested areas, environmental or terrain features
deemed worthy of preservation by the City Council.
   DRIP LINE: The farthest distance away from the trunk of a tree that rain or
dew will fall directly to the ground from the leaves or the branches of the
tree.
   DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITY: An establishment that, by design of physical
facilities or by service or packaging procedures, encourages or permits
customers to receive a service or obtain a product while inside their motor
vehicle.
   DWELLING UNIT: A residential building or portion thereof intended for
occupancy by a single family but not including hotels, motels or the like.
There are three (3) principal types:
      1.   Single-family detached: A free-standing residence structure designed
for or occupied by one (1) family only.
      2.   Single-family attached: A residential building containing two (2) or
more dwelling units with one (1) common wall.
         a.   Duplex: A residence designed for or occupied by two (2) families
only, with separate entrances, housekeeping and cooking facilities for each.
         b.   Townhouse: A residential building containing two (2) or more
dwelling units with at least one (1) common wall, each unit so oriented as to
have all exits open to the outside.
         c.   Quadplex: A residential building containing four (4) dwelling
units with one (1) common wall, each unit so oriented as to have all exits open
to the outside.
      3.   Multiple-family: A residence designed for or occupied by three (3)
or more families, either wholly (attached) or partially a part of a large
structure (detached), with separate housekeeping and cooking facilities for
each.
         a.   Apartment: A room or suite of rooms, available for rent which is
occupied as a residence by a single family, or a group of individuals living
together as a single-family unit.
         b.   Condominium: A form of individual ownership within a multi-family
building with joint responsibility for maintenance and repairs of the land or
other common property.
         c.   Cooperative: A multi-unit development operated for and owned by
its occupants. Individual occupants do not own their specific housing unit
outright as in a condominium, but they own shares in the enterprise.
   EASEMENT: The right of a person, entity, government agency, or public
utility company to use public or private land owned by another for a specific
purpose.
   EAW or ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT WORKSHEET: A brief document designed to
assess the environmental effects and set out the basic facts necessary to
determine whether an EIS is required for a proposed project or to initiate the
scoping process for an EIS.
   EIS or ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENT: A detailed written statement as
required by Minnesota Statutes Section 116D.04 used to evaluate proposed
projects which have the potential for significant environmental effects.
   EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT: A method of determining the location of
floodway boundaries so that floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES: Underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam or water
transmission or distribution systems; collection, communication, supply or
disposal systems, including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes,
conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals,
hydrants or other similar equipment and accessories in conjunction therewith;
but not including buildings.
   EVENT CENTER (Includes convention, exhibit hall, banquet halls): An
establishment which is rented by individuals or groups to host private social
gatherings including, but not limited to, banquets, meetings, weddings, and
other similar celebrations. Such a use may or may not include: 1) kitchen
facilities for the preparation or catering of food; 2) the sale of alcoholic
beverages for on-premises consumption only during scheduled events and not open
to the general public; and 3) outdoor gardens, patios or outdoor gathering
areas.
   EXTERIOR STORAGE: The storage of goods, materials, equipment, manufactured
products and similar items not fully enclosed by a building.
   FAMILY: An individual, or two (2) or more persons each related, living
together as a single housekeeping unit; or a group of not more than four (4)
persons not related, maintaining a common household.
   FARM: A tract of land which is principally used for growing and harvesting
crops and/or keeping common domestic farm animals which shall include those
necessary buildings, related to operating the farm.
   FARMERS’ MARKET: An occasional or periodic market held in an open area or in
a structure where groups of individual sellers offer for sale to the public
such items as fresh produce, seasonal fruits, fresh flowers, arts and crafts
items, and food and beverages (but not to include second-hand goods) dispensed
from booths located on-site.
   FENCE: Any partition, structure, wall or gate erected as a dividing marker,
barrier or enclosure and located along the boundary, or within the required
yard.
   FLOOD: A temporary rise in the flow or stage of a stream or in the stage of
a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry areas.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY: The frequency for which it is expected that a specific
flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
   FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway. FLOOD
FRINGE is synonymous with the term FLOODWAY FRINGE used in the flood insurance
study for Washington County, Minnesota and incorporated areas.
   FLOOD, REGIONAL: A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in the state and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the one
hundred (100) year recurrence interval.
   FLOODPLAIN: The beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional flood.
   FLOODPROOFING: A combination of structural provisions, changes or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding, primarily for the
reduction or elimination of flood damages.
   FLOODWATER: The water of any river, stream, drainage channel, low area lake
or pond which is above and/or outside the channel or banks of such river, lake,
stream, drainage channel or pond.
   FLOODWAY: The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
   FLOOR AREA: Is the sum of the gross horizontal areas of all floors of a
building or portion thereof devoted to a particular use, however, the “floor
area” shall not include floor area other than area devoted to retailing
activities, the production or processing of goods, warehousing, and business or
professional offices.
   FRONTAGE: A boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or dedicated public
street or private drive.
   GARAGE, PRIMARY: A detached structure or portion of a principal building
designed for the storage of motor vehicles and other items owned by the
occupants of the principal building.
   GRADE (ADJACENT GROUND ELEVATION): The lowest point of elevation of the
finished surface of the ground, paving or sidewalk within the area between the
building and the property line, or when the property line is more than five
feet (5') from the building, between the building and a line five feet (5')
from the building.
   GRADING: Changing the natural or existing topography of land.
   HOTEL: A building having provision for nine (9) or more guests, in which
lodging is provided with or without meals, for compensation, and which is open
to transient guests, and where ingress and egress to and from all rooms is made
through an inside lobby or office supervised by a person in charge.
   HOSPITAL: A building designed and used for the medical and surgical
diagnosis, treatment, and housing of persons under the care of doctors and
nurses.
   HOUSEHOLD PET: Animals that are customarily kept for personal use or
enjoyment within the home. “Household pets” shall include, but not be limited
to, domestic dogs, domestic cats, domestic tropical birds, rabbits, or fish.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Any material which prevents absorption of storm water
into the soil.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE: Any vehicle which cannot be driven or propelled under
its own power in its existing condition, or because its wrecked, junked, or
partially dismantled condition, or which cannot be driven because necessary
licenses or authorizations have not been obtained and displayed on the vehicle.
   KENNEL: Any premises where four (4) or more dogs, cats or other customary
household pets six (6) months or older at any one (1) time are kept or accepted
for boarding, breeding, training or sale, except when located in a pet shop or
veterinary clinic.
   LIFT STATION: A facility, usually including pumping facilities, for the
lifting of sewage or stormwater runoff to a higher sewage facility or
stormwater runoff facility.
   LOADING DOCK: An unobstructed area provided and maintained for the temporary
parking of trucks and other motor vehicles, for the purpose of loading and
unloading goods, wares, materials and merchandise.
   LOT: A parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
requirements for use, coverage and area, and to provide such yards and other
open spaces as are herein required. Such lot shall have frontage on an improved
public street or on an approved private street and may consist of:
      1.   A single lot of record.
      2.   A portion of a lot of record.
      3.   A combination of complete lots of record, complete lots of record
and portions of lots of record, or of portions of lots of record.
      4.   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds; provided, that in no
case of division or combination shall any residual lot or parcel be created
which does not meet the requirements of this Title.
   LOT AREA: The total site area within the lot lines.
   LOT AREA PER UNIT: The number of square feet of lot area per dwelling unit.
   LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two (2) or
more intersecting streets, or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of
a continued street, the interior angle of which does not exceed one hundred
thirty-five degrees (135°).
   LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
rear lot line of a lot.
   LOT LINE:  The property line bounding a lot; except, that where any portion
of a lot extends into the public right of way or a proposed public right of
way, the nearest line of such public right of way shall be the lot line for
applying this Title.
   LOT LINE, FRONT: That boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or dedicated
public street and, in the case of a corner lot, it shall be the shortest
dimension on a public street.
   LOT LINE, REAR: That boundary of a lot which is opposite the front lot line.
If the rear lot line is less than ten feet (10') in length or if the lot forms
a point at the rear, the rear lot line shall be a line ten feet (10') in length
within the lot, connecting the side lot lines and parallel to the front lot
line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE: Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a
rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD: Part of a subdivision the plat of which has been recorded in
the Office of the Registrar of Deeds or Registrar of Titles; or a parcel of
land the deed to which was recorded in the Office of the Registrar of Deeds or
Registrar of Titles, in accordance with subdivision regulations and zoning
ordinances of the City in effect at the time of such conveyance.
   LOT, THROUGH: A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines abutting two (2)
streets, and which is not a corner lot.
   LOT, WIDTH: The maximum distance between the side lot lines of any lot
measured parallel to front lot lines at the minimum front yard setback line.
   LOWEST FLOOR:  The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building’s lowest floor.
   MANUFACTURED SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING:  A structure transportable in one (1)
or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more
in width or forty (40) body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is
three hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, and which is built on a
permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling for one (1) family,
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, including the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
systems contained therein. No manufactured dwelling shall be moved into the
City that does not meet the manufactured home building code as defined in
Minnesota Statutes Section 327.31.
   MANUFACTURING: All manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging,
treatment or assembly of products and materials.
   MARINA: Facilities which may include piers or systems of floating or fixed
accessways providing moorings for watercraft and offering supply, repair and
other facilities for such use.
   MEDICAL USES: Those uses concerned with the diagnosis, treatment and care of
human beings. These include hospitals, dental services, medical services or
clinics.
   METROPOLITAN URBAN SERVICE AREA (MUSA): The area where public utilities
including sewer and water are available and is identified in the City’s
Comprehensive Plan.
   MONOPOLE TOWER: A tower constructed of tapered tubes that fit together
symmetrically and are stacked one (1) section on top of another and bolted to a
concrete foundation without support cables.
   MOTOR FUEL STATION: A retail place of business engaged primarily in the sale
of motor fuels, but also may be engaged in supplying goods and services
generally required in the operation and maintenance of motor vehicles. These
may include sale of petroleum products, sale and servicing of tires, batteries,
automobile accessories, and replacement items, washing and lubrication
services; and the performance of minor automotive maintenance and repair.
   NATURAL RATE OF ABSORPTION: The amount of stormwater absorbed in the soil
during a storm of once in twenty (20) year occurrence.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE: Any structure which was permitted and existing
prior to the effective date of this Title, which does not conform to the
applicable regulations under the current provisions of this Title.
   NONCONFORMING USE: Use of land, buildings or structures permitted and
existing at the time of adoption of this Title, which do not comply with all
the current regulations of this Title governing the zoning district in which
such use is located.
   NORMAL HIGH-WATER MARK: A mark delineating the highest water level which has
been maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape. The normal high-water mark is commonly that point where the natural
landscape changes from predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial.
   NURSING HOME/ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY/LICENSED RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY:
Any facility licensed by the Minnesota Department of Human Services, public or
private, which for financial gain or otherwise regularly provides one (1) or
more persons with twenty-four (24) hour-per-day care, food, lodging, training,
education, supervision, habilitation, rehabilitation, and treatment.
Residential facilities may include, but are not limited to: state institutions
under the control of the Commissioner of Human Services, foster homes, halfway
houses, residential treatment centers, group homes, continuing care retirement
facilities, residential programs or schools for handicapped children.
   OBSTRUCTION: Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building, wire, fence,
stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, or matter in, along, across, or projecting
into any channel, watercourse, or regulatory flood plain which may impede,
limit or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself or by
catching or collecting debris carried by such water.
   OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE: A space accessible from a street, alley or
driveway, for the use of trucks while loading or unloading merchandise or
materials. Such space shall be of such size as to accommodate one (1) truck of
the type typically used in the particular business.
   OFFICES: A room or group of rooms used for conducting the affairs of a
business, profession, service industry, or government.
   OFFICIAL ZONING MAP: That certain map titled “official zoning map of Cottage
Grove, Minnesota”, which map is properly approved and filed, hereinafter
referred to as the “zoning map”.
   OPEN SALES LOT: Land devoted to the display of goods for sale, rent, lease
or trade, where such goods are not enclosed within a building.
   OUTDOOR SEASONAL SALES: A short-term outdoor display and/or sale of seasonal
products such as the following: Christmas trees, nursery products and
horticulture products (fruits, vegetables, flowers, shrubs and the like).
   PARKING GARAGE: A structure, building or portion thereof designed and
utilized for the temporary storage of motor vehicles.
   PARTY WALL: A wall which divides two (2) adjoining properties and in which
each of the owners of the adjoining properties has rights of enjoyment.
   PATIO: A level, surfaced area directly adjacent to a principal building at
or within three feet (3') of the finished grade, without a permanent roof which
is intended for outdoor lounging, dining and the like.
   PLACES OF WORSHIP: A place of assembly where a non-profit religious body
organized to sustain public worship owns or leases a building or portion
thereof where people regularly assemble for religious worship. The service of
food, meals and alcoholic beverages on such premises may be provided if
secondary and incidental to the promotion of some other common objective of the
organization and adequate dining room space and kitchen facilities for the
purpose of serving food and meals are available.
   PLEASURE CRAFT: A boat or yacht used primarily for recreational activity.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING: A building, or combination of buildings, which contains
the primary use of the site.
   PRINCIPAL USE: The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from
subordinate or accessory uses. A PRINCIPAL USE may be either permitted,
interim, or conditional.
   PROOF OF PARKING: A parking plan which demonstrates that the number, size,
and location of parking spaces required by City Code Section
11-3-4 can be provided on the site in compliance with all required parking
setbacks.
   PUBLIC FACILITIES: Includes roads and sanitary sewer collection and
treatment system and watermain infrastructure.
   PUBLIC PARK: A recreation area owned or operated by the City, county, state
or other governmental unit.
   PUBLIC UTILITY: Transmission facilities of electric power, gas, water,
telephone and railroad companies, including electric power transmission lines
and gas pipelines; but not substations; telephone facilities, water pumping,
reservoir and distribution facilities and railroad trackage; but not including
storage and switching yards.
   REGIONAL FLOOD: A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the one
hundred (100) year recurrence interval. REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the
term “base flood” used in a flood insurance study.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION: The regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be seven hundred feet (700') above mean sea level or at an
elevation no lower than one foot (1') above the elevation of the regional flood
plus any increases in flood elevation caused by encroachments on the floodplain
that result from designation of a floodway, whichever is greater. It is the
elevation to which uses regulated by this Title are required to be elevated or
flood protected.
   RESTAURANT: An establishment open to the public where food and or drink is
prepared and offered to the public. To be considered a restaurant, at least
fifty percent (50%) of the seating shall be available to the public during
hours of operation.
   RETAIL SHOPPING STORES: An establishment primarily engaged in the sale or
rental of goods and the provision of services directly to the consumer,
excluding those uses defined more specifically in this code.
   RETAINING WALL: A structure utilized to hold a slope in a position in which
it would not naturally remain.
   RIVERFRONT: Every lot or parcel of land which is immediately adjacent to the
Mississippi River.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY / ROAD: A public right of way, intended for vehicular traffic,
including freeways, expressways, arterials, parkways, thoroughfares, collector
streets, local streets, cul-de-sacs, access streets, avenues, boulevards,
lanes, and other public ways, as now or hereafter designated.
   SALE SHOWROOM: The display only of merchandise and equipment samples where a
sales agreement with a consumer is conducted and delivery of purchased
merchandise is made from an off-site warehouse. Merchandise or equipment which
is displayed is typically large bulky items and includes, but is not limited
to, furniture, appliances, plumbing fixtures, lighting, and carpeting.
   SATELLITE RECEIVE ONLY ANTENNA (SROA): An accessory structure consisting of
a device commonly parabolic in shape, mounted at a fixed point and capable of
receiving, for the benefit of the principal use, television signals from a
transmitter or a transmitter relay located in geostationary orbit, and serving
the same or similar function as the common television antenna.
   SCHOOL: A public or private institution for learning with a pre-school,
kindergarten, elementary or secondary curriculum with buildings, equipment,
courses of study, class schedules, enrollment of pupils and staff meeting the
standards established by the state.
   SELF-STORAGE: A facility where rooms or lockers are rented to tenants,
usually on a monthly basis, in which tenants can store and access their goods.
The rented spaces are usually secured by the tenant’s own lock and key. Unlike
in a warehouse, self-storage facility employees do not have casual access to
the contents of the space.
   SEPTIC TANK: Any device for the treatment and disposal of human waste which
utilizes the percolation of the liquid portion of the waste into the soil,
including all portions of such system which are not confined inside a building.
   SETBACK: The required minimum horizontal distance between a building or any
other specified development feature and a street right-of-way line or any other
lot line, disregarding encroachments permitted by of this chapter.
   SHELTER, FALLOUT OR BLAST: A structure or portion of a structure intended to
provide protection to human life during periods of danger to human life from
nuclear fallout, blasts, air raids, storms or other emergencies.
   SLOPE: The inclination of the natural surface of the land from the
horizontal.
   STREET: A way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place, drive,
court or otherwise designated.
   STREET LINE: The land covered by a street or land dedicated for public use
or for certain private use for vehicular traffic.
   STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground or on-site utilities, including, but not limited to, buildings,
factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins, manufactured homes, recreational
vehicles not meeting the exemption criteria specified in this Title, travel
trailers/vehicles, signs and other similar items.
   STRUCTURE, PRINCIPAL: A structure which determines the predominant use of
the lot on which it is located.
   SUBSTATION: Any utility structure other than lines, pipelines, holes or
towers.
   TEMPORARY FAMILY HEALTHCARE DWELLINGS: Transitional housing on a relative’s
or caregiver’s property for those with mental or physical impairments and aging
family members who need short term care.
   TERRACE: A relatively level area bordered on one (1) or more sides by a
retaining wall.
   TOWER: A vertical structure that supports a wind turbine, antenna,
transmission lines or other similar uses.
   TRAINING AND TEACHING FACILITY: A public or private institution for post-
secondary education or technical training including buildings, equipment,
courses of study, class schedules, enrollment of pupils and staff.
   USE: The purpose or activity for which land or a building thereon is
designated, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied, utilized or
maintained, and shall include the performance standards of this Title.
   USE, ACCESSORY: A use or structure subordinate to and serving the principal
use or structure on the same lot and customarily incidental thereto.
   USE, PRINCIPAL: The main use of land or buildings, as distinguished from
subordinate or accessory uses. A “principal use” may be either permitted or
conditional.
   USE, TEMPORARY: A use established for a fixed period of time with the intent
to discontinue the use upon a specified expiration date.
   UTILITY FACILITY: A physical facility of an electric, telephone, telegraph,
cable television, water, sewer, solid waste, gas or similar service operation.
   VETERINARY CLINIC: A place where animals or pets are given medical or
surgical treatment and the boarding of animals is limited to short term care
incidental to the hospital use.
   WAREHOUSING AND DISTRIBUTION: The storage of materials or equipment within
an enclosed building.
   WATER BODY: Any lake, stream, pond, wetland or river.
   WATER DEPENDENT USES: Uses which, in order to exist or function, require a
location or use of the riverfront, including, but not limited to, barge loading
and barge fleeting areas, marinas, industries which receive or ship goods or
materials by water as an essential part of their operation, boat and barge
construction, dismantling and repair, riverfront recreation, intakes and
outfalls, and water monitoring and measuring facilities.
   WETLAND: Any land which is seasonably wet or flooded, including all marshes,
bogs, swamps and floodplains.
   WHOLESALING: The selling of goods, equipment and materials by bulk to
another business that in turn sells to the final customer.
   YARD: A required open space on a lot, which is unoccupied and unobstructed
by a structure from its lowest ground level to the sky, except as expressly
permitted in this Title. A yard shall extend along a lot line and at right
angles to such lot line, to a depth or width specified in the yard regulations
for the district in which such lot is located.
   YARD, FRONT: A yard extending along the full width of the front lot line
between side lot lines and extending from the abutting front street right of
way line to a depth required in the yard regulations for the district in which
such lot is located.
   YARD, REAR: A yard extending along the full width of the rear lot line
between the side lot lines and extending toward the front lot line for a depth
as specified in the yard regulations for the district in which such lot is
located.
   YARD, SIDE: A yard extending along the side lot line between the front and
rear yards, having a width as specified in the yard regulations for the
district in which such lot is located.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: The Community Development Director shall be the Zoning
Administrator. (Ord. 1068, 8-16-2023; amd. Ord. 1081, 5-1-2024)
CHAPTER 2: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
11-2-1: Enforcement
11-2-2: Sixty (60) Day Rule
11-2-3: Public Hearings
11-2-4: Site Plan Review
11-2-5: Variances
11-2-6: Text and Map Amendments
11-2-7: Administrative Conditional Use Permit
11-2-8: Conditional Use Permits
11-2-9: Interim Use Permits
11-2-10: Environmental Assessment Worksheets and Impact Statements
11-2-11: Denial
11-2-12: Lapse
11-2-13: Appeals
11-2-14: Revocation
11-2-15: Amendment to Approved Application
11-2-16: Development Agreements
11-2-17: Zoning Application Fees; Deposits
11-2-18: Historic Properties Conditional Use Permits
§ 11-2-1: ENFORCEMENT:
   Enforcement Official. This title shall be administered and enforced by the
Community Development Director or their designee.
§ 11-2-2: SIXTY (60) DAY RULE:
   Minnesota Statutes Section 15.99 applies to all land use applications in
this Chapter, unless a different timeline for approval is provided by state law
or City ordinance.
   A.   Within sixty (60) days after the date of receipt of the completed
application, the City must approve or deny the application. Failure of the City
to deny a request within sixty (60) days or any extension thereof as provided
in this Section is deemed approval of the request.
   B.   The time limit begins upon the receipt of a completed application. A
completed application shall mean a written request containing all information
required by law, or by a previously adopted rule, ordinance or policy of the
city. If the Community Development Director receives an application that does
not contain all the required information, the Community Development Director
shall send notice within fifteen (15) business days of the receipt of the
request telling the applicant that the application is not accepted and
indicating what information is missing. The sixty (60) day time limit begins
again after receipt of a completed application, as provided in this Section.
   C.   The City may extend the time limit before the end of the initial sixty
(60) day period by providing written notice of the extension to the applicant.
The notice must contain the reasons for the extension and its anticipated
length, which may not exceed sixty (60) days unless approved by the applicant.
   D.   The applicant may waive the sixty (60) day period by providing a
written waiver.
§ 11-2-3: PUBLIC HEARINGS:
   The City shall hold a public hearing on all variances, conditional use
permits, site plan applications (unless administratively approved pursuant to
City Code Section
11-2-4.E), text amendments, map amendments and interim use permits. Notice of
the public hearing shall be given not less than ten (10) days nor more than
thirty (30) days prior to the date of the hearing by publication in the
designated legal newspaper of the City. The notice shall contain the date, time
and place of the hearing and a description of the land and the proposed
application. At least ten (10) days before the hearing, the City Clerk shall
mail a notice to the owner and to each of the property owners within five
hundred feet (500') of the property for which the approval is sought. Failure
of the City Clerk to mail the notice or failure of the property owners to
receive the notice shall not invalidate the proceedings.
§ 11-2-4: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
   The purpose of this section is to establish a formal site plan review
procedure and provide regulations pertaining to the enforcement of site design
standards consistent with the requirements of this section. The site plan
review enables the city council to ensure that the applicant has made adequate
provisions for utilities (sewer, water, and stormwater), traffic (off-street
parking, circulation, access), safety precautions (lighting, pedestrian
sidewalks, traffic control signs), and amenities (exterior design, landscaping,
and screening). A site and building plan review shall be required for all
proposed new construction and substantive changes, as determined by the
Community Development Director, to approved site plans or existing developed
sites.
   A.   Pre-Application Sketch Review Process.
      1.   Prior to the submission of a site plan application, potential
applicants may present a sketch to the Community Development Director. The
sketch may be conceptual and may include the following related materials:
         a.   A scale drawing of the proposed site with reference to existing
development within two hundred feet (200') of adjacent properties.
         b.   General location of proposed structures.
         c.   Tentative street arrangements, both public and private.
         d.   Amenities to be provided such as recreational areas, open space,
walkways, etc.
         e.   General location of parking areas.
         f.   Proposed public sanitary sewer, water and storm drainage.
         g.   A statement showing the proposed density of the project with the
method of calculating said density also shown.
         h.   Topographic contours at two-foot intervals.
         i.   Wetland delineation.
         j.   Proposed general schedule of development.
         k.   Information on the proposed developer.
         l.   Other information or materials useful in reviewing the sketch.
         m.   Letter of concurrence from landowner.
      2.   Requests for pre-application sketch review shall be submitted to the
Community Development Director. The sketch shall be accompanied by a fee and a
cash escrow as set forth in City Code Section
11-2-17. The sketch shall also be accompanied by written and graphic materials,
the number, size, and format as prescribed by the Community Development
Director, describing the proposed change, development, or use. The application
shall be considered officially submitted and complete when the applicant has
complied with all the specified information requirements.
      3.   The Community Development Director shall review the sketch and
provide informal comments. The Community Development Director shall have the
prerogative and authority to refer the sketch to the Planning Commission and/or
City Council for discussion, review, and informal comment. Any opinions or
comments provided on the sketch by the Community Development Director, Planning
Commission, and/or City Council shall be considered advisory only and shall not
constitute a binding decision.
      4.   If the sketch is to be reviewed by the Planning Commission and/or
City Council, as determined by the Community Development Director, a public
hearing shall be held pursuant to City Code Section
11-2-3. Failure of a property owner to receive said notice shall not invalidate
any such proceedings as set forth within this Chapter.
   B.   Formal Application Site Plan Review Procedures. The procedure for site
plan review is as follows:
      1.   The property owner or the owner’s agent shall meet with the
Community Development Director to be advised of the procedures and obtain an
application form.
      2.   The applicant shall file the completed application form together
with the required exhibits and fees pursuant to City Code Section
11-2-17 with the Community Development Director.
      3.   The Community Development Director shall submit the application to
the Planning Commission for its review, comment and recommendation to the City
Council.
      4.   The City shall hold a public hearing on the application pursuant to
City Code Section
11-2-3.
      5.   The City Council shall, after receipt of the report of the Planning
Commission, either approve or deny the application, within the timeframe
established by City Code Section
11-2-2. Denial must comply with the requirements of City Code Section
11-2-11.
      6.   The City Council may impose such restrictions or conditions as may
be necessary to comply with the standards established by this Title, or to
reduce or minimize the impacts upon other properties in the neighborhood and to
better carry out the intent of the Comprehensive Plan and the Zoning Code. Any
condition must be directly related to and must bear a rough proportionality to
the impact created by the application.
   C.   Exempt from site plan review. Except in those cases specifically cited
within this Section, the following shall be excepted from the requirements of
this Section and shall be processed through the building permit review process:
      1.   Single-family dwellings and accessory structures;
      2.   Recreational structures and buildings in public parks.
      3.   Agricultural uses in the AG-1 and AG-2 Zoning Districts, with the
exception of nurseries, greenhouses, and tree farms.
   D.   Required site plan application information and materials. The following
information and materials shall be required for the application:
      1.   A complete application form signed by all property owners.
      2.   All required fees and escrows.
      3.   A statement identifying all property owners of all land included
within the proposal obtained from Washington County or a title or abstract
company.
      4.   Accurate and to-scale development plans for the project area, the
number of which to be provided as indicated on the application form, including
the following minimum information:
         a.   North point and graphic engineering scale.
         b.   Location map showing relationship to street system and
surrounding development.
         c.   Date of preparation and revision date(s).
         d.   Boundary line survey, including measured distances and angles
which shall be tied to the nearest one-quarter (¼) corner or section corner by
traverse.
         e.   Existing and proposed right-of-way widths and names of proposed
streets.
         f.   Site statistics including:
            (1)   Gross site acreage/minimum lot size in the zoning district.
            (2)   Total stormwater management acreage.
            (3)   Any wetland impact area and wetland replacement area.
            (4)   Percent green space.
            (5)   Net density.
            (6)   Existing, proposed and required parking.
         g.   Locations of rights-of-way, driveways, parks and public lands,
permanent buildings and structures, easements, section and corporate lines,
water courses, marshes, wooded areas, rock outcrops, power transmission poles
and lines and other significant features within the site and to a distance of
two hundred feet (200') beyond the property boundary(ies).
         h.   Locations and dimensions for existing and/or proposed buildings
or other structure(s); setbacks; walkways and bikeways; off-street parking and
driveways; refuse and service areas including screening materials; loading
areas and docks; any fencing including material type; and any signs.
         i.   Architectural renderings and specifications for exterior wall
finishes and percentages proposed for all principal and accessory structures
that comply with City Code Section
11-3-11.
         j.   Colored site plan and elevations.
         k.   A utility plan showing all existing and proposed water, sanitary
sewer and stormwater management utilities needed up to two hundred feet (200')
beyond the project area boundary as well as pipe diameters, rim and invert
elevations and pipe gradients for sanitary sewer and storm sewer mains.
         l.   A grading plan with topographic data for two hundred feet (200')
around the subject property or around major features with intervals not
exceeding two feet (2') except where the horizontal contour interval is one
hundred feet (100') or more in which case a one-foot vertical interval shall be
shown. All proposed stormwater management facilities, roadway gradients and
spot elevations on parking lots and curb lines must also be shown on the
grading plan.
         m.   Ingress and egress to property and proposed structures thereon
and with particular reference to vehicular and pedestrian safety and
convenience, traffic flow and control and access.
         n.   Screening and buffering with reference to type, dimensions and
purpose that complies with City Code Section
11-3-6.
         o.   Exterior lighting plans showing proposed exterior lighting and
signs with reference to fixture types, height including base, glare, traffic
safety, lumen levels at all property lines, and compatibility and harmony with
properties in the district that comply with City Code Section
11-3-10.
         p.   Landscape plan showing quantities, size, common and botanical
names, mature heights and spreads, root type and locations of plants and areas
of sod that complies with City Code Section
11-3-12.
         q.   Stormwater management analysis, if required.
         r.   Sustainable design elements, if any.
         s.   A tree preservation plan that complies with City Code Section
11-3-13, if required.
         t.   Locations of exterior storage (City Code Section
11-3-7), trash enclosures (City Code Section
11-3-8), outside mechanical equipment (City Code Section
11-3-9) and signage (City Code Title 12), if applicable.
         u.   Such other information as required by the Community Development
Director.
   E.   Administrative Approval. The site plans for certain projects, including
but not limited to those types of projects listed below, may be reviewed and
approved administratively by the Community Development Director or their
designee in coordination with the City’s other departments and any relevant
regulatory agencies, however, Community Development Director may, at their
discretion, refer any site plan to the Planning Commission and City Council for
review:
      1.   Proposed minor structural additions involving either up to ten
percent (10%) or less of the total existing floor area or site expansions or
modifications involving ten percent (10%) or less of the total existing site
area which meet all ordinance requirements may be approved by the Community
Development Director prior to the building permit being issued, and shall not
require Planning Commission or City Council review, subject to the following:
         a.   This Section shall apply to all permitted residential and
nonresidential uses which are subject to the site plan approval requirements of
the Zoning Code, and to those conditional uses involving commercial and
industrial uses, and for which the minor structural additions or site
modifications do not significantly alter or conflict with the original intent
and parameters of the approved conditional use. The Community Development
Director shall determine what constitutes significant change.
         b.   This Section shall apply in the cases of new developments which
have received City Council plan approval, but for which building permits have
yet to be taken; and this section shall apply to existing developments for
which there are on file City Council approved site plans.
         c.   Compliance with all ordinance requirements shall be construed to
include all adopted policies and codes.
         d.   Unresolved disputes as to administrative application of ordinance
requirements shall be referred to the Planning Commission and City Council
following normal plan review and approval procedures.
         e.   Plans submitted for minor structural additions or minor site
alterations under the terms of this section shall be the same as those required
by the ordinance for site plan approval.
   F.   Lapse. Lapse of approval is governed by City Code Section
11-2-12. (Amd. Ord. 1081, 5-1-2024)
§ 11-2-5: VARIANCES:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of the variance is to allow variation from the
strict application of the terms of this Title where, by reason of the
exceptional physical characteristics of the property, the literal enforcement
of the requirements of this Title would cause practical difficulties for the
landowner.
   B.   General provisions. In no case may a variance be granted to permit a
use other than a use permitted in the district. Nonconforming uses, land,
structures or buildings in the same district or other districts may not be
considered grounds for issuance of a variance.
   C.   Procedures. The procedure for variance review is as follows:
      1.   The property owner or his agent shall meet with the Community
Development Director to be advised of the procedures and obtain an application
form.
      2.   The applicant shall file the completed application form together
with the required exhibits and fees pursuant to City Code Section
11-2-17 with the Community Development Director.
      3.   The Community Development Director shall submit the application to
the Planning Commission for its review, comment and recommendation to the City
Council.
      4.   The City shall hold a public hearing on the application pursuant to
City Code Section
11-2-3.
      5.   The City Council shall, after receipt of the report of the Planning
Commission, either approve or deny the application, within the timeframe
established by City Code Section
11-2-2. Denial must comply with the requirements of City Code Section
11-2-11.
      6.   The City Council may impose such restrictions or conditions as may
be necessary to comply with the standards established by this Title, or to
reduce or minimize the impacts upon other properties in the neighborhood and to
better carry out the intent of the Comprehensive Plan and the Zoning Code. Any
condition must be directly related to and must bear a rough proportionality to
the impact created by the application.
   D.   Required site plan application information and materials. The following
information and materials shall be required for the application:
      1.   A complete application form signed by all property owners.
      2.   All required fees and escrows.
      3.   A statement identifying all property owners of all land included
within the proposal obtained from Washington County or a title or abstract
company.
      4.   Accurate and to-scale development plans for the project area, the
number of which to be provided as indicated on the application form, including
the following minimum information:
         a.   North point and graphic engineering scale.
         b.   Locations and dimensions for existing and/or proposed buildings
or other structure(s); setbacks; walkways and bikeways; off-street parking and
driveways; refuse and service areas including screening materials; loading
areas and docks; any fencing including material type; and any signs.
   E.   Such other information as required by the City.
   F.   Findings. A variance may be granted only when all of the following
conditions are found:
      1.   The variance is in harmony with the general purposes and intent of
this Title.
      2.   The variance is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
      3.   The applicant for the variance establishes that there are practical
difficulties in complying with this Title. “Practical difficulties,” as used in
connection with the granting of a variance, means that all of the following
must be found to apply:
         a.   The property owner proposes to use the land in a reasonable
manner for a use permitted in the zone where the land is located, but the
proposal is not permitted by other official controls;
         b.   The plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to the
property and that are not created by the landowner; and
         c.   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the neighborhood.
      4.   Economic considerations alone do not constitute practical
difficulties.
   G.   Precedents. A previous variance must not be considered to have set a
precedent for the granting of further variances. Each case must be considered
on its merits.
   H.   Lapse. Lapse of approval is governed by City Code Section
11-2-12.
§ 11-2-6: TEXT AND MAP AMENDMENTS:
   The City Council may adopt amendments to this Title and the zoning map in
relation both to land uses within a particular district or to the location of
the district line. Such amendments shall not be issued indiscriminately but
shall only be used as a means to reflect changes in the goals and policies of
the City as reflected in the Comprehensive Plan. Amendments must be adopted by
a majority vote of the City Council. The adoption or amendment of any portion
of a Zoning Code which changes all or part of the existing classification of a
zoning district from residential to either a commercial or an industrial
district requires a two-thirds majority vote of the City Council.
   A.   There are the following kinds of amendments:
      1.   A change in a district’s boundary (rezoning).
      2.   A change in a district’s regulations.
      3.   A change in any other provision of this Title.
   B.   Proceedings for amending this Title shall be initiated by at least one
(1) of the following methods:
      1.   By action of the Community Development Department.
      2.   By petition of an owner of property which is proposed to be rezoned
or for which district regulation changes are proposed.
      3.   By action of the City Council.
   C.   Amendments initiated by property owners. Procedures. The procedure for
amendments is as follows:
      1.   The property owner or the owner’s agent shall meet with the
Community Development Director to be advised of the procedures and obtain an
application form.
      2.   The applicant shall file the completed application form together
with the required exhibits and fees pursuant to City Code Section
11-2-17 with the Community Development Director.
      3.   The Community Development Director shall submit the application to
the Planning Commission for its review, comment and recommendation to the City
Council.
      4.   The City shall hold a public hearing on the application pursuant to
City Code Section
11-2-3.
      5.   The City Council shall, after receipt of the report of the Planning
Commission, either approve or deny the application, within the timeframe
established by City Code Section
11-2-2. Denial must comply with the requirements of City Code Section
11-2-11.
      6.   The City Council may impose such restrictions or conditions as may
be necessary to comply with the standards established by this Title, or to
reduce or minimize the impacts upon other properties in the neighborhood and to
better carry out the intent of the Comprehensive Plan and the Zoning Code. Any
condition must be directly related to and must bear a rough proportionality to
the impact created by the application.
   D.   Required application information and materials. The following
information and materials shall be required for the application:
      1.   A complete application form signed by all property owners.
      2.   All required fees and escrows.
      3.   A statement identifying all property owners of all land included
within the proposal obtained from Washington County or a title or abstract
company.
      4.   A written statement that explains the request, including the section
of the Zoning Code for which an amendment is requested as well as suggested
language for the amendment. If applying for a rezoning, the request should
describe the current and proposed zoning classification along with reasons
supporting the proposed change. For the City Council to adopt a Zoning Code
amendment or rezoning, it needs to be consistent with the City’s Comprehensive
Plan. The written statement should address the request’s consistency with the
Comprehensive Plan or a proposed amendment to the Comprehensive Plan.
      5.   A statement of all property owners of all land included within the
proposal and a list of property owners’ names and addresses within five hundred
feet (500') of the outer boundaries of the property obtained from Washington
County or a title or abstract company.
      6.   An accurate boundary survey and conceptual development plan for the
area proposed to be rezoned.
      7.   Any other information identified by the Community Development
Director as required by state statute or necessary to review the proposal for
consistency with the City’s Comprehensive Plan for example, but not limited to,
environmental review, traffic impact study, future roadway layout, stormwater
analysis, utility and grading plans and/or concept platting.
   E.   Amendments initiated by the Community Development Department or City
Council. The following is the procedure for initiating an amendment based upon
a recommendation by the Community Development Department or City Council:
      1.   The Community Development Department may initiate a study on a
proposed ordinance amendment and report its findings and recommendations to the
City Council.
      2.   Amendments initiated by the Community Development Department or City
Council shall be referred to the Planning Commission for review and
recommendation to the City Council.
      3.   The City shall hold a public hearing on the application pursuant to
City Code Section
11-2-3.
      4.   The City Council shall, after receipt of the report of the Planning
Commission either approve or deny the proposed amendment or rezoning. Denial
must comply with the requirements of City Code Section
11-2-11.
§ 11-2-7: ADMINISTRATIVE CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish efficient
regulations and procedures for the processing and consideration of certain uses
and activities allowed by conditional administrative permit. Administrative
Conditional Use Permits are intended to be an efficient and cost-effective
permitting process for uses and activities that do not require the scrutiny and
discretion of a conditional use permit.
   B.   Procedure. The procedure for administrative conditional use permits is
as follows:
      1.   Requests for administrative conditional use permits, as provided
within this Chapter, shall be filed with the Community Development Director on
an official application form and contain all of the information required in
City Code Section
11-2-7.C.
      2.   The Community Development Director shall review the application and
related materials and shall determine whether the proposal is in compliance
with all applicable evaluation criteria, codes, ordinances, and applicable
performance standards set forth in this Title. If the Community Development
Director, in their sole discretion, determines that the application is not
appropriate for a Conditional Administrative Permit, they shall return the
application and fees and notify the applicant to reapply for a conditional use
permit, pursuant to the requirements of City Code Section
11-2-8.
      3.   The Community Development Director shall make a determination on
approval or denial of the conditional administrative permit. A determination of
non-compliance with applicable codes, ordinances, and the standards in this
section shall be considered a denial; unless, within ten (10) days of the date
of such notice, the applicant submits revised plans and/or information with
which the Community Development Director is able to determine compliance.
      4.   A written permit shall be issued to the applicant when a
determination of compliance has been made.
   C.   Required application information and materials. The following
information and materials shall be required for the application:
      1.   A complete application form signed by all property owners.
      2.   All required fees and escrows.
      3.   A statement identifying all property owners of all land included
within the proposal obtained from Washington County or a title or abstract
company.
      4.   A concise statement describing the proposed use, event or activity,
including the purpose, type of merchandise involved, dates and times of
operation, number of employees involved, provisions for on-site security,
provisions for on-site parking, and other pertinent information required by the
Community Development Director to fully evaluate the application.
      5.   A copy of any approved site plan for the property or an “as built”
survey which accurately represents existing conditions on the site, including
entrances and exits, bona fide parking and driving areas, and which accurately
indicates any proposed temporary structures, including tents, stands, and
signs.
      6.   An accurate floor plan, when in the judgment of the Community
Development Director, such plan is necessary.
      7.   Certification to the City that there are no delinquent property
taxes, special assessments, interest, or City utility fees due upon the parcel
of land to which the administrative permit application relates.
      8.   Other information deemed necessary by the Community Development
Director.
   D.   Performance standards. All uses, events or activities allowed by
administrative permit shall conform to the applicable standards outlined in the
zoning district in which such use, event or activity is proposed.
   E.   Appeal. Unresolved disputes as to administrative application shall be
subject to appeal pursuant to City Code Section
11-2-13 of this Chapter.
   F.   Administration and Enforcement. Violation of an issued permit or of the
provisions of this Chapter shall be grounds for denial of future permit
applications. (amd. Ord. 1081, 5-1-2024)
§ 11-2-8: CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of a conditional use permit is to authorize and
regulate uses which may be beneficial in a specific instance to the general
welfare of the community, yet ensure that such uses are not detrimental to
surrounding property, and are consistent with the stated purpose of the zoning
district in which such uses are located regarding conditions of operation,
location, arrangement, and construction.
   B.   Procedures. The procedure for conditional use permits is as follows:
      1.   The property owner or the owner’s agent shall meet with the
Community Development Director to be advised of the procedures and obtain an
application form.
      2.   The applicant shall file the completed application form together
with the required exhibits and fees pursuant to City Code Section
11-2-17 with the Community Development Director.
      3.   The Community Development Director shall submit the application to
the Planning Commission for its review, comment and recommendation to the City
Council.
      4.   The City shall hold a public hearing on the application pursuant to
City Code Section
11-2-3. In the case of correctional facilities and waste facilities, notice of
the public hearing shall be to property owners located within one thousand
three hundred twenty feet (1,320') of the property in question.
      5.   The City Council shall, after receipt of the report of the Planning
Commission, either approve or deny the application, within the timeframe
established by City Code Section
11-2-2. Denial must comply with the requirements of City Code Section
11-2-11.
      6.   The City Council may impose such restrictions or conditions as may
be necessary to comply with the standards established by this Title, or to
reduce or minimize the impacts upon other properties in the neighborhood and to
better carry out the intent of the Comprehensive Plan and the Zoning Code. Any
condition must be directly related to and must bear a rough proportionality to
the impact created by the application.
   C.   Required application information and materials. The following
information and materials shall be required for the application:
      1.   A complete application form signed by all property owners.
      2.   All required fees and escrows.
      3.   A statement identifying all property owners of all land included
within the proposal obtained from Washington County or a title or abstract
company.
      4.   The application shall include a written description of the request
including an explanation of compliance with the conditional use permit criteria
set forth in this Chapter, together with detailed graphic materials, the
number, size, and format as prescribed by the Community Development Director,
fully explaining the proposed change, development, or use.
      5.   A copy of any approved site plan for the property or an “as built”
survey which accurately represents existing conditions on the site, including
entrances and exits, bona fide parking and driving areas, and which accurately
indicates any proposed temporary structures, including tents, stands, and
signs.
      6.   An accurate floor plan, when in the judgment of the Community
Development Director, such plan is necessary.
      7.   Certification to the City that there are no delinquent property
taxes, special assessments, interest, or City utility fees due upon the parcel
of land to which the administrative permit application relates.
      8.   Other information deemed necessary by the Community Development
Director.
   D.   Findings.
      1.   The Planning Commission and City Council may consider the following
factors when reviewing a conditional use permit application:
         a.   Compliance with and effect upon the Comprehensive Plan, including
public facilities and capital improvement plans.
         b.   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the conditional
use will promote and enhance the general public welfare and will not be
detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals or comfort.
         c.   The conditional use will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already
permitted, nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the
neighborhood.
         d.   The establishment of the conditional use will not impede the
normal and orderly development and improvement of surrounding property for uses
permitted in the district.
         e.   Adequate public facilities and services are available or can be
reasonably provided to accommodate the use which is proposed.
         f.   The conditional use shall, in all other respects, conform to the
applicable regulations of the district in which it is located.
         g.   The conditional use complies with the general and specific
performance standards as specified by the Zoning Code.
      2.   City staff may request additional information from the applicant
concerning operational factors or to retain expert testimony with the consent
and at the expense of the applicant deemed necessary to establish performance
conditions in relation to all pertinent sections of this Title.
   E.   General Performance Standards. As may be applicable, the evaluation of
any proposed conditional use permit request shall be subject to and include,
but not limited to, the following general performance standards and criteria:
      1.   Consistency with the Comprehensive Plan. The proposed use shall be
consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
      2.   Health and Safety. The proposed use shall not negatively impact the
health, safety and general welfare of occupants of surrounding lands.
      3.   Public Infrastructure Services. Adequate public facilities and
services shall be able to be provided to the site where the use is proposed,
and/or existing infrastructure shall be able to absorb the additional demand
for public services such as utilities, streets, parks, schools, etc.
      4.   Screening and Landscaping. Incompatible impacts of the proposed use
shall be screened and buffered from adjacent property and the surrounding
neighborhood. The City Council may require additional landscaping or screening
above that required in the Zoning Code.
      5.   Architectural Standards. The site or building associated with the
proposed use meets or exceeds the architectural design and landscaping
standards for the district in which it is located. The City Council may require
additional architectural standards above those required in the Zoning Code.
      6.   Zoning. The use is consistent with the purposes of the Zoning Code
and the purposes of the zoning district in which the applicant intends to
locate the proposed use.
      7.   Traffic. The generation and characteristics of the traffic
associated with the use and its impact on traffic volumes and safety associated
with driveway locations, existing and proposed capacity on adjacent roads,
sidewalks and trail connections can be adequately mitigated.
      8.   Floodplain. Shall follow City Code Title 11, Chapter 10.
   F.   Lapse. Lapse of approval is governed by City Code Section
11-2-12.(amd. Ord. 1081, 5-1-2024)
§ 11-2-9: INTERIM USE PERMITS:
   A.   Purpose and Intent. The purpose of allowing interim uses is:
      1.   To allow a use for a brief period of time until a permanent location
is obtained or while the permanent location is under construction.
      2.   To allow a use that is presently judged acceptable by the City
Council, but that with anticipated development or redevelopment, will not be
acceptable in the future or will be replaced in the future by a permitted or
conditional use allowed within the respective district.
   B.   The intent of the City Council in allowing interim uses is that in
order to give flexibility to the district use regulations of this Title, which
is necessary to achieve the objectives of the Comprehensive Plan, interim uses
are allowed in certain districts subject to the granting of an interim use
permit. Because of their temporary characteristics, interim uses require
special consideration so they may be located properly with respect to the
objectives of the Comprehensive Plan and with respect to their effects on
surrounding properties. In order to achieve these purposes, the City Council is
empowered to grant and to deny applications for interim use permits and to
impose reasonable conditions upon the granting of these permits. Uses
authorized under this section shall be considered a conforming use, but only in
accordance with the conditions set forth in the interim use permit.
   C.   Procedures. The procedure for conditional use permits is as follows:
      1.   The property owner or the owner’s agent shall meet with the
Community Development Director to be advised of the procedures and obtain an
application form.
      2.   The applicant shall file the completed application form together
with the required exhibits and fees pursuant to City Code Section
11-2-17 with the Community Development Director.
      3.   The Community Development Director shall submit the application to
the Planning Commission for its review, comment and recommendation to the City
Council.
      4.   The City shall hold a public hearing on the application pursuant to
City Code Section
11-2-3.
      5.   The City Council shall, after receipt of the report of the Planning
Commission, either approve or deny the application, within the timeframe
established by City Code Section
11-2-2. Denial must comply with the requirements of City Code Section
11-2-11.
      6.   The City Council may impose such restrictions or conditions as may
be necessary to comply with the standards established by this Title, or to
reduce or minimize the impacts upon other properties in the neighborhood and to
better carry out the intent of the Comprehensive Plan and the Zoning Code. Any
condition must be directly related to and must bear a rough proportionality to
the impact created by the application.
   D.   Required application information and materials. The following
information and materials shall be required for the application:
      1.   A complete application form signed by all property owners.
      2.   All required fees and escrows.
      3.   A statement identifying all property owners of all land included
within the proposal obtained from Washington County or a title or abstract
company.
      4.   The application shall include a written description of the request
including an explanation of compliance with the interim use permit criteria set
forth in this Chapter, together with detailed graphic materials, the number,
size, and format as prescribed by the Community Development Director, fully
explaining the proposed change, development, or use.
      5.   A copy of any approved site plan for the property or an “as built”
survey which accurately represents existing conditions on the site, including
entrances and exits, bona fide parking and driving areas, and which accurately
indicates any proposed temporary structures, including tents, stands, and
signs.
      6.   An accurate floor plan, when in the judgment of the Community
Development Director, such plan is necessary.
      7.   Certification to the City that there are no delinquent property
taxes, special assessments, interest, or City utility fees due upon the parcel
of land to which the administrative permit application relates.
      8.   Other information deemed necessary by the Community Development
Director.
   E.   Findings. The City Council may grant an interim use permit for the
interim use of property if:
      1.   The use conforms to the zoning regulations;
      2.   The date or event that will terminate the use can be identified with
certainty;
      3.   Permission of the use will not impose additional costs on the City
if it is necessary for the City to take the property in the future; and
      4.   The applicant agrees in writing to any conditions that the City
Council deems appropriate for permission of the use.
   F.   Lapse of interim use permit. An interim use permit shall lapse and
become null and void three (3) months following the date on which the interim
use permit became effective if it is not in use.
§ 11-2-10: ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT WORKSHEETS AND IMPACT STATEMENTS:
   A.   When an environmental assessment worksheet (EAW), alternative urban
areawide review (AUAR), or environmental impact statement (EIS) is required or
otherwise ordered or submitted, the applicable review procedures shall be as
set forth in the Minnesota Environmental Quality Board regulations for the
Environmental Review Program, as authorized by Minnesota Statutes and specified
in Minnesota Rules Part 4410.
   B.   An EAW, AUAR, or EIS application, together with the completed data
portions of the environmental document, shall be accompanied by a fee and cash
escrow as set forth in the City Code Section
11-2-17. Costs of City time and materials expended in reviewing and processing
the application shall be charged against the cash escrow account and credited
to the City.
   C.   Upon completion of the environmental document for distribution, the
Community Development Director shall provide mailed notice of the availability
of the environmental document, and date of the meeting at which the City
Council will consider the matter, to all property owners within five hundred
feet (500') of the boundaries of the property that is the subject of the
environmental document. Said notice shall be mailed at least ten (10) days
before the City Council meeting. Failure of a property owner to receive notice
shall not invalidate any such proceedings as set forth in this Chapter. The
Planning Commission shall provide its recommendations to the City Council.
(Ord. 1100, 4-16-2025)
§ 11-2-11: DENIAL:
   The City may deny an application upon a written finding of legally
sufficient reasons with a factual basis and must be provided to the applicant.
Findings for denial may be adopted at the next subsequent meeting following the
hearing and must be adopted pursuant to the time frame required by City Code
Section
11-2-2. No application which has been denied wholly or in part shall be
resubmitted for a period of six (6) months from the date of the order of
denial, except on grounds of new evidence or proof of changes of conditions
found to be valid by the Community Development Director.
§ 11-2-12: LAPSE:
   Approval of a site plan, variance, administrative conditional use permit,
and conditional use permit shall lapse and become null and void one (1) year
following the date on which the approval was granted, unless prior to the
expiration of the one (1) year the work or improvement described in the
approval is commenced and diligently pursued on the subject site. The City
Council may grant an extension for good cause. (amd. Ord. 1081, 5-1-2024)
§ 11-2-13: APPEALS:
   A.   Planning Commission as Board of Appeals and Adjustments; Authority: The
Planning Commission shall act as the Board of Appeals and Adjustments and shall
determine, in harmony with the general purpose of this title and the
Comprehensive Plan, by resolution, all appeals from any order, requirement,
permit or decision made by the Community Development Director under this Title,
and from any interpretation of the text of this title, or any determination by
the Community Development Director as to the location of the boundary of a
zoning district as shown on the zoning map.
   B.   Filing of Appeal: Within ten (10) business days after a decision of the
Community Development Director under the provisions of this title, except in
connection with prosecutions for violations thereof, the applicant or other
person or officers of the City affected thereby may appeal to the Planning
Commission by filing a written notice to the City Clerk, stating the specific
grounds upon which the appeal is made.
   C.   Board Hearing; Notice: The Planning Commission, as the Board of Appeals
and Adjustments, may conduct such hearings and shall afford the applicant an
opportunity to present evidence, testimony and witnesses. The Planning
Commission shall render a decision to uphold or overturn the decision of the
Community Development Director.
   D.   Council Hearing: An applicant may appeal from a decision of the Board
of Appeals and Adjustments made pursuant to City Code Section
11-2-13.C., within ten (10) business days after a decision of the Board of
Appeals and Adjustments by filing a written notice to the City Clerk, stating
the specific grounds upon which the appeal is made.
      1.   The Council may review and revise any decision of the Board of
Appeals and Adjustments. The hearing shall be held within thirty (30) days
after the decision is made by the Board of Appeals and Adjustments.
      2.   Notice of the hearing before the Council shall be mailed to all
appellants. In all cases involving determination of district boundary lines or
interpretation of the text of this Title, ten (10) days’ published notice of
hearing in the official newspaper shall be given. The City Council will conduct
the hearing based on the record of the Board of Appeals and Adjustments and may
consider new testimony and evidence at its discretion. The City Council shall
determine whether or not the decision of the Board of Appeals and Adjustments
should be upheld or overturned. The decision of the City Council shall be
final.
§ 11-2-14: REVOCATION:
   The City Council may hold a hearing to consider the revocation of any site
plan, conditional use permit, administrative use permit approval, interim use
permit or variance upon a determination and recommendation from the Community
Development Director that the authorized use is not in conformance with the
conditions of approval or is in continued violation of City Codes or other
applicable regulations. The Community Development Director shall notify the
responsible person to whom the permit was issued or to the current property
owner that they have an opportunity to show cause, present evidence, testimony
and witnesses before the City Council at a hearing as to why the permit,
resolution or approval should not be revoked. The City Council will conduct a
hearing and determine whether or not the permit, resolution or approval should
be revoked. The decision of the City Council shall be final.
§ 11-2-15: AMENDMENT TO APPROVED APPLICATION:
   Holders of any site plan, conditional use permit, administrative use permit
approval, interim use permit or variance may propose amendments to the permit
at any time, following the procedures for a new permit as set forth in this
Chapter. Administrative approval may be granted, for administrative use permits
as set forth in City Code Section
11-2-7. No significant changes in the circumstances or scope of the use shall
be undertaken without review by the Planning Commission and approval by the
City Council. The Community Development Director shall determine what
constitutes a significant change and may administratively approve insignificant
changes. Significant changes include, but are not limited to, hours of
operation, number of employees, expansion of structures and/or premises,
different and/or additional signage, and operational modifications resulting in
increased external activities and traffic, and the like. The Planning
Commission may recommend, and the City Council may approve significant changes
and modifications to a site plan, conditional use permit, interim use permit or
variance, including additional or revised conditions.
§ 11-2-16: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
   All proposed subdivisions, rezonings, planned unit developments, conditional
use permits and/or site plan reviews may require a development agreement
between the City and developer and/or landowner specifying the improvements
required, financial guarantees and any other matter pertaining to the proposed
development at the sole discretion of the City.
§ 11-2-17: ZONING APPLICATION FEES; DEPOSITS:
   A.   Generally. The fees to be paid for each zoning application shall be as
prescribed in the chart in subsection C below. They are reviewed annually by
the City Council. Fees shall be payable at the time applications are filed with
the Community Development Director and are not refundable unless application is
withdrawn prior to legal publication and notice. There shall be no fee in the
case of applications filed in the public interest by City Council or by the
Planning Commission. Fees shall include application fees, filing fees,
consultant, legal, planning and engineering fees and/or escrow fees.
   B.   Escrow payment. Applicants shall be required to pay a cash escrow fee
as required by the Fee Schedule in this Chapter. The escrow fee shall be used
to pay any outside expenses and fees incurred by the City, including, but not
limited to consultants, attorneys, planning and engineering fees or other
expenses due to the application. If, at any time, the balance in the cash
escrow account is depleted to less than ten percent (10%) of the originally
required cash escrow amount, the applicant shall deposit additional funds in
the cash escrow account as determined by the Community Development Director.
All expenses and fees in excess of the escrow deposit, shall be paid by the
applicant to the City within thirty (30) days of final action on the matter by
the City. If not paid within thirty (30) days, the account shall be deemed
delinquent. Any balance remaining in the cash escrow account upon completion of
the process shall be returned to the applicant after all expenses and fees
thereto have been deducted, following final action by the City in the matter.
(amd. Ord., 12-4-2024; Ord. 1100, 4-16-2025)
§ 11-2-18: HISTORIC PROPERTIES CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS:
   A.   Definitions: The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this
Title shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning. Where definitions differ from
other sections of the City Code, the definition herein shall apply:
   ADAPTIVE REUSE: The process of transforming a historic building or property
into a new function while preserving its character and heritage.
   ART GALLERY: A facility in which works of art are displayed and goods are
not produced, sold, or repaired.
   BED AND BREAKFAST: A place of lodging that:
      1.   Provides not more than four (4) rooms for rent to no more than 10
guests at a time;
      2.   Provides no meals, other than breakfast served to persons who rent
rooms; and
      3.   Was originally built and occupied as, or was converted to, a single-
family residence prior to being used as a place of lodging.
   BREWPUB: A brewer who also holds one or more retail on-sale licenses and who
manufactures fewer than 3,500 barrels of malt liquor in a year, at any one
licensed premises, the entire production of which is solely for consumption on
tap on any licensed premises owned by the brewer.
   COCKTAIL ROOM: Establishment on the premises of or adjacent to one (1)
microdistillery location owned by a distiller for the on-sale of distilled
liquor produced by the distiller.
   LIMITED RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment that sells goods directly to
the consumer. Limited retail shall includes but is not limited to bakeries,
cafes, delicatessens, ice cream parlors, and craft boutiques.
   MEETING/CONFERENCE FACILITY: A facility for public or private meetings
consisting of one or more meeting or multi-purpose rooms.
   MICRODISTILLERY: A facility that produces not more than forty thousand
(40,000) proof gallons of distilled spirits in a calendar year as regulated by
Minnesota statutes, as may be amended.
   MUSEUM: A facility in which objects of historical, scientific, artistic, or
cultural interest and significance are stored and exhibited.
   OFFICE: A facility in which the handling of information of the performing of
administrative services is conducted; including services provided to persons
both on site and off site on a walk-in or appointment basis and where goods are
not produced, sold, or repaired.
   RECEPTION FACILITY: A facility, including event centers, which is rented by
individuals or groups to host private social gatherings including, but not
limited to, banquets, meetings, weddings, and other similar events.
   RESTAURANT: An eating facility where a meal is served to a customer and
consumed while seated indoors at a counter or table.
   B.   Policy and Purpose. Certain buildings within the City have been
designated by the City as Historic Preservation Sites pursuant to City Code
Section
2-2-3 and are listed in the City's Register of Historic Sites and Landmarks or
are listed in the National Register of Historic Places. The intent of this
section is to encourage preservation, revitalization, and adaptive reuse of
these historic properties located in the City of Cottage Grove.
   Adaptive reuses of these historically registered properties or structures
shall promote preservation of the architectural and historic character by
encouraging retention of its historic value. All reuses shall be complementary
to the historical character of the structure or site and the surrounding uses.
Adapted reuses in this section shall be reviewed by the Advisory Committee on
Historic Preservation (ACHP) and approved by the City Council after
consideration in each case of the impact of such uses upon the property,
neighboring uses, the surrounding area, and the public need for the particular
use at the particular location. Limitations and standards are herein
established to ensure the use's consistency with the character, uses, and
activities on lands surrounding the use. In order to accomplish such purposes,
the following provisions relating to the issuance of adaptive reuse conditional
use permits are adopted.
   C.   Procedure:
      1.   The application for a Historic Properties Conditional Use Permit
shall follow the procedures in City Code Section
11-2-8.B: Procedures.
      2.   The Historic Properties Conditional Use Permit shall receive Site
Plan Review approvals if the application meets the criteria for a Site Plan
Review pursuant to City Code Section
11-2-4: Site Plan Review.
      3.   The City Council shall, after receipt of the report of the ACHP,
either approve or deny the application, within the timeframe established by
City Code Section
11-2-2. Denial must comply with the requirements of City Code Section
11-2-11.
      4.   The City Council may impose such restrictions or conditions as may
be necessary to comply with the standards established by this Title, or to
reduce or minimize the impacts upon other properties in the neighborhood and to
better carry out the intent of the Comprehensive Plan and the Zoning Code. Any
condition must be directly related to and must bear a rough proportionality to
the impact created by the application.
   D.   Application: The application for a Historic Properties Conditional Use
Permit shall follow the procedures in City Code Section
11-2-8.C: Required application information and materials.
   E.   Findings: In addition to the factors in City Code Section 11.2,8.D, a
historic properties conditional use permit may be granted subject to the City
Council making the following findings:
      1.   The applicant has demonstrated that the historic characteristics of
the property cannot be maintained reasonably and economically unless the
Historic Properties Conditional Use Permit is granted.
      2.   The property or structure is listed on the City's Register of
Historic Sites and Landmarks and/or is listed on the National Register of
Historic Places.
   F.   Performance Standards for All Historic Properties Conditional Use
Permits: As may be applicable, the evaluation of any proposed historic
properties conditional use permit request shall be subject to and include, but
not limited to, the following general performance standards and criteria:
      1.   The standards of City Code Section
11-2-8.E: Conditional Use Permits are met.
      2.   The parcel size is greater than five (5) acres, unless a smaller
size is approved by the City Council.
      3.   One (1) sign is permitted not to exceed thirty-two (32) square feet,
and six (6) feet in height.
      4.   Site improvements meet City Code Section
2-2-6: Alterations to Historic Sites and Landmarks.
   G.   Allowed Uses for Historic Properties Conditional Use Permit. The
adaptive reuse proposed for the property must be a use listed below:
      1.   Bed and Breakfast
      2.   Reception Facility
      3.   Meeting/Conference Facility
      4.   Office
      5.   Museum
      6.   Art Gallery
      7.   Limited Retail Establishment
      8.   Restaurant
      9.   Microdistillery with a Cocktail Room
      10.   Brewpub with a restaurant
      11.   Other uses deemed similar by the City Council
   H.   Amendment to Historic Properties Conditional Use Permit: Amendments to
any condition contained in an approved Historic Properties Conditional Use
Permit may be made only in accordance with the procedures applicable to the
initial application as contained above in Section E: Procedure.
   I.   Lapse: Lapse of approval is governed by City Code Section
11-2-12. (Ord. 1081, 5-1-2024)
CHAPTER 3: GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
Section
11-3-1: Nonconforming Uses and Structures
11-3-2: Encroachment Exceptions
11-3-3: Height Limit Modifications
11-3-4: Off-Street Parking and Loading
11-3-5: Accessory Structures
11-3-6: Fences, Retaining Walls and Screening
11-3-7: Exterior Storage
11-3-8: Trash Enclosures
11-3-9: Mechanical Equipment Screening Requirements
11-3-10: Glare and Lighting
11-3-11: Architectural Design Standards
11-3-12: Landscaping
11-3-13: Tree Preservation
§ 11-3-1: NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Purpose. Within the districts established by this Chapter or amendments
that may later be adopted, there may exist lots, structures and uses of land,
which were lawful before this Title was passed or amended, but which would be
prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms of the current Zoning Code
or future amendments. It is the intent of this Chapter to permit these
nonconformities to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their
survival. Such uses are declared by this Chapter to be incompatible with
permitted uses in the districts involved. It is further the intent of this
Chapter that nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended,
nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere
in the same district.
   B.   Any nonconforming use or structure within the City shall be governed by
Minnesota Statutes Section 462.357, subdivision 1e.
§ 11-3-2: ENCROACHMENT EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Exceptions. The following shall not be considered encroachments on
setback requirements in all zoning districts.
      1.   Principal building cornices, canopies, eaves, gutters, and other
similar features, provided they project not more than thirty inches (30"). In
no event shall such features be closer than twenty-four inches (24") from any
lot line;
      2.   Principal building chimneys, flues, vents, and other similar
features, provided they project not more than twenty-four inches (24") and are
no more than five feet (5') in width. In no event shall such features be closer
than thirty inches (30") from any lot line;
      3.   Principal building window wells and bay windows, provided they
project not more than thirty-six inches (36"). In no event shall they be closer
than twenty-four inches (24") from any lot line;
      4.   In front yards, principal building entry vestibules that extend a
distance of six feet (6') or less, provided such vestibule is not more than
eight feet (8') in width or more than one (1) story in height;
      5.   In front yards, principal building balconies that extend a distance
of four feet (4') or less, provided they are seven feet (7') or more above
grade at the front building line;
      6.   In front and rear yards, landings, steps, uncovered porches, and
other similar features attached to the principal building that extend a
distance of seven feet (7') or less provided the landing or uncovered porch is
no more than thirty inches (30") off the ground; a railing enclosure no more
than three feet (3') in height may be placed around such landing or uncovered
porch, unless prior approval for a greater height is granted by the City Staff;
      7.   In side yards, principal building steps, stoops, handicap access
ramps, and other similar features that extend a distance of three feet (3') or
less. In no event shall they be closer than two feet (2') from a side lot line.
   B.   No encroachment shall be permitted in existing or required drainage and
utility easements, unless approved by the City Engineer.(amd. Ord. 1081, 5-1-
2024)
§ 11-3-3: HEIGHT LIMIT MODIFICATIONS:
   A.   Scope. The requirements and regulations specified in this Title shall
be subject to the provisions of this Section.
   B.   Increases in height limits:
      1.   Height limitations set forth elsewhere in this Title shall be
increased up to fifty percent (50%) when applied to the following structures:
         a.   Church spires.
         b.   Belfries.
         c.   Cupolas and domes which do not contain usable space.
         d.   Monuments.
         e.   Flagpoles.
         f.   Smokestacks.
         g.   Parapet walls extending not more than three feet (3') above the
limiting height of the building.
         h.   Elevator penthouses.
      2.   Height limitations set forth elsewhere in this Title shall be
increased up to seventy-five percent (75%) when applied to the following
structures:
         a.   Water towers.
         b.   Fire and hose towers.
         c.   Cooling towers.
§ 11-3-4: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
   A.   Purpose. The regulation of off-street parking spaces is intended to
alleviate or prevent congestion of the public right-of-way and to promote the
safety and general welfare of the public by establishing minimum requirements
for off-street parking of motor vehicles in accordance with the use intensity
of the various parcels of land or structures.
   B.   Application. The regulations and requirements set forth in this Section
shall apply in all zoning districts.
   C.   General parking requirements.
      1.   The term “floor area” is used to calculate the number of off-street
parking spaces. It is the sum of the gross horizontal areas of all floors of a
building or portion thereof devoted to a particular use, however, the “floor
area” shall not include floor area other than area devoted to retailing
activities, the production or processing of goods, warehousing, and business or
professional offices. Only the principal structure floor area contributes to
parking requirements.
      2.   Snow storage area(s) shall be provided so that the number of parking
spaces is not reduced below the minimum required. The City may initiate
proceedings to require that snow be hauled off the site if parking and
circulation problems related to inadequate snow-removal occur.
      3.   Proof of parking. The City may also consider a proof of parking when
a business can demonstrate a proposed use will not require the minimum number
of spaces as stated in this Section. When parking is reduced, the City may
require that area to be reserved in open space for future parking needs.
   D.   Use of parking facilities.
      1.   No Class I commercial vehicles shall be allowed to park in a
residential district except while making a pickup or delivery or performing a
service.
         a.   Conditional use permit. One (1) Class I commercial vehicle may be
permitted to park on a residential lot with a conditional use permit in
compliance with the following conditions:
            (1)   The Class I commercial vehicle shall be kept within the
principal building, or an accessory building, at all times when not in use.
            (2)   The hours of operation of the vehicle shall not adversely
affect adjoining property.
            (3)   The lot shall be five (5) acres or more in size.
      2.   Class II commercial vehicles. Residential lots are permitted one (1)
Class II commercial vehicle per dwelling unit.
      3.   No auxiliary motors or engines on any commercial vehicle shall be
allowed to operate in residential districts unless making a pick-up, delivery
or performing a service.
      4.   School buses designed to carry individuals may be parked in a
residential district during school hours only.
      5.   This Section does not apply to agricultural equipment being used for
agricultural purposes.
   E.   Location of parking facilities. Required off street parking must be on
the same lot as is the principal building and must meet the following setback
requirements.
      1.   Corner lots. May not be located within any yard area abutting a
street on a corner lot.
      2.   Single family lots. Must comply with minimum setback requirements
for accessory structures.
         a.   On corner lots the driveway must be setback a minimum of 10 feet
from the side yard property line.
      3.   Access drives, drive aisles, and parking spaces for religious
institutions, schools, public parking lots, parks, and municipal facilities
must be set back thirty feet (30') from the front, side, and rear property
lines.
         a.   Exception. Where a joint driveway or access point serving more
than one (1) property will provide better and safer traffic circulation.
      4.   Within all business zoning districts, off street parking spaces,
drive aisles and/or garages shall be located in areas other than a required
yard.
         a.   Exception. Parking may be located in a rear yard to within ten
feet (10') of the rear or side lot line and in the front yard within twenty
feet (20') of front yard lot line or adjacent to a public right-of-way or
residential district.
      5.   Within all industrial zoning districts, off street parking spaces,
drive aisles, and truck staging areas must at least twenty feet (20') from any
street right of way line, and at least ten feet (10') from any interior side or
rear lot line.
         a.   Exception. When a side or rear lot line abuts a residential
district, off street parking must be at least one hundred feet (100') from such
lot lines.
   F.   Off site parking facilities. When required accessory off street parking
facilities are provided elsewhere than on the lot on which the principal use
served is located, written authority for using such property for off street
parking shall be filed with the City, so as to maintain the required number of
off-street parking spaces during the existence of such principal use. No such
parking facility shall, at its closest point, be located more than one hundred
feet (100') from the premises nor more than four hundred feet (400') from the
principal use or building served.
   G.   Use of parking area for use other than parking. Required off street
parking space in all districts shall not be utilized for open storage of goods
or for the storage of vehicles which are inoperable, for lease, rent or sale.
   H.   Design and maintenance of off-street parking areas.
      1.   General Requirements. Access and parking areas shall be designed so
as to provide an adequate means of access to a public alley or street. Such
driveway access shall not exceed the driveway dimensions of this Code and shall
be so limited so as to cause the least interference with the traffic movement.
         a.   Except for single-family, two-family, and townhouse dwellings,
head in parking, directly off of and adjacent to a public street, with each
stall having its own direct access to the public street, shall be prohibited.
All parking spaces shall have access from driveways and not directly on a
public street.
      2.   Parking Spaces Striped. All parking spaces shall be striped with
suitable paint in accordance with approved plans, except for single-family
residences.
      3.   Calculating Space. When the determination of the number of required
off street parking spaces results in a fraction, each fraction up to and
including one-half (1/2) shall be disregarded; fractions over one-half (1/2)
shall count as one (1) additional space.
      4.   Surfacing. All parking areas and driveways in the front and side
yards accessing a public right of way of property in the MUSA must be paved
with asphalt, paver bricks, or concrete.
         a.   All parking surfaces in front of the principal structure and in
side yards accessing a public right of way must be in conformance with this
code and must not exceed forty percent (40%) of the required yard area. A
maximum width of two feet (2') of landscape rock or similar landscaping
material may additionally be permitted to border such parking or driveway area.
The parking or driveway surface may not encroach on any drainage and utility
easement, except the drainage and utility easement running adjacent and
parallel to the street the parking or driveway surface is accessing.
         b.   Any parking or driveway surface behind the principal structure
must be one (1) of the following: concrete, asphalt, class V gravel (minimum
six inches (6") compacted), landscape rock (minimum six inches (6") compacted),
landscape paver blocks, or brick. All parking surfaces must be contained within
a solid edging or other border. The setback for parking surfaces behind the
front of the principal structure is the same as the setbacks for accessory
structures in the zoning district. Such parking or driveway surface cannot
encroach on any drainage and utility easements.
         c.   All development in non-MUSA areas must have an asphalt or
concrete driveway between the roadway edge and the minimum front yard setback
line. The City, at its discretion, can require the entire or a greater portion
of the driveway to be paved if erosion or drainage problems are experienced on
public or private land. This requirement applies to open sales lots in or out
of the MUSA.
      5.   Curbing. All open off-street parking areas and loading areas
designed to have head in parking along the perimeter of the off-street parking
area or loading area shall provide a concrete curb or equivalent of adequate
height approved by the City.
      6.   Drive-Up Facilities. Business establishments containing drive-up
facilities, including restaurants and financial institutions, shall provide a
motor vehicle stacking area for vehicles on the site. A minimum of six (6)
vehicle spaces per lane shall be provided. The vehicle stacking area shall not
extend beyond the street right of way line and shall be delineated in such a
manner that vehicles waiting in line will not interfere with nor obstruct the
primary driving, parking and pedestrian facilities on or off the site.
      7.   Bumper Overhang. The minimum parking space length may be decreased
by up to two feet (2') for spaces which allow the bumper of the vehicle to
project over the parking space without obstructing other parking spaces or
vehicle circulation.
      8.   Turnarounds. All required parking spaces shall be accessed by
adequate maneuvering space. All dead-end parking rows shall contain a
turnaround area.
      9.   Parking Lot Design Standards. Parking areas shall be designed in
conformance with the following:
Parking Angle Stall     Curb Length Stall Depth Aisle Width
(A)           Width (B) (C)         (D)         (E)
Parking Angle Stall     Curb Length Stall Depth Aisle Width
(A)           Width (B) (C)         (D)         (E)
0°           9'        23'         9'          12'
20°          9'        26'4"       15'         11'
30°          9'        18'         17'4"       11'
40°          9'        14'         19'2"       12'
45°          9'        12'9"       19'10"      13'
50°          9'        11'9"       20'5"       12'
60°          9'        10'5"       21'         18'
70°          9'        9'8"        21'         19'
80°          9'        9'2"        20'4"       24'
90°          9'        9'          20'         24'
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3d6c8715b752b002e65b7810d3637762553bea09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1219.png]
 
   I.   Required Off-Street Parking. The following minimum areas shall be
provided and maintained by ownership, easement or lease, for and during the
life of the respective uses set forth below.
Auto repair                             3 spaces per auto bay, plus 1 space for
                                        each employee.
Banks and financial services            1 space for each 250 square feet of
                                        floor area.
                                        4 spaces, plus 1 space for each 500
Boat and marine sales                   square feet of floor area over the
                                        first 1,000 square feet.
Community, activity, and cultural       1 space per maximum capacity of
centers, post offices, commercial       patrons, plus 1 space for every
recreation facilities (indoor and       employee
outdoor), museums and art galleries
                                        1 space per 3 seats based upon design
                                        capacity of assembly area, plus 1 space
Funeral homes and mortuaries            for every 2 employees plus 1 space per
                                        company vehicle. Notwithstanding the
                                        above, a minimum of 10 parking spaces
                                        shall be provided.
Hospitals                               2 spaces for each patient bed.
                                        1 space per sleeping unit, plus one
Hotels and motels                       space per day shift employee plus one
                                        space for each 40 square feet devoted
                                        to meeting or banquet rooms.
Libraries                               1 space for each 300 square feet of
                                        floor area.
Manufacturing, fabricating and          4 spaces, plus 1 space for each 400
processing                              square feet of floor area.
                                        4 spaces plus 2 spaces for each service
                                        stall. Those facilities designed for
Motor fuel stations and motor fuel      sale of additional items other than
station convenience stores              strictly automobile products, parts or
                                        service shall be required to provide
                                        additional parking in compliance with
                                        other applicable Zoning Code Sections
                                        1.6 spaces per dwelling unit in the
                                        multi-family residential districts.
                                        Additional spaces for visitor parking
Multiple-family dwellings               shall be provided based on the
                                        development characteristics and
                                        anticipated demand for visitor spaces
                                        as determined by the City.
Day Care Facilities (child and/or       1 space for each 6 individuals of
adult)                                  licensed capacity.
                                        1 space for each 250 square feet of
Office including clinics for human care floor area for the first 100,000 square
                                        feet, plus 1 space for each 350 square
                                        feet of floor area thereafter.
                                        1 space for each 2,000 square feet of
                                        land up to the first 8,000 square feet,
Open sales lots                         plus 1 space for each 4,000 square feet
                                        of land up to a parcel of 24,000 square
                                        feet, plus 1 space for each 6,000
                                        square feet thereafter.
Places of Assembly (Places of Worship,  1 space for 4 seats, based on the
Conference Centers, Theaters,           design capacity of the main assembly
Auditoriums)                            hall.
                                        1 space for each 3 seats, based on
                                        capacity design or where there is no
Restaurants                             design layout, 1 space for each 50
                                        square feet of floor area, whichever is
                                        greater, plus employee parking.
                                        1 space for each 3 seats based on
Restaurants; drive-in or convenience    capacity design, plus employee parking.
food                                    6 spaces of stacking of a drive-thru
                                        facility.
Retail                                  1 space for each 200 square feet of
                                        floor area.
                                        1 space for each classroom, plus 1
Schools, elementary and junior high     additional space for each 100-student
                                        capacity.
                                        1 space for each 10 students, based on
Schools, post-secondary                 design capacity, plus 1 additional
                                        space for each 2 classrooms.
Self-service passenger vehicle car wash 2 spaces per bay.
                                        1 space for each 6 beds for which
Senior citizen housing (dependent)      accommodations are offered, plus 1
                                        additional space for each 15 beds, plus
                                        1 space per employee.
Senior citizen housing (independent)    1.5 parking spaces for each unit.
                                        2 spaces for each dwelling unit. A
                                        garage may fulfill this requirement.
                                        However, a building permit shall not be
Single-family dwellings                 granted to convert a garage to living
                                        space unless other acceptable
                                        provisions are made to provide the
                                        required parking space.
Theaters, ball fields, stadiums, ice    1 space for each 3 seats of design
rinks and arenas                        capacity.
                                        2 spaces per dwelling unit, but not
Two-family dwellings                    more than one 2-car garage per dwelling
                                        unit.
                                        1 space for each 2,000 square feet of
                                        floor area for any building used solely
                                        in a storage capacity. For mixed use
Wholesale business, storage and         building where storage and warehousing
warehouse establishment                 is an incidental use to other activity,
                                        required parking spaces shall be based
                                        upon the specific requirements for each
                                        use appearing in this Section.
                                        5 spaces plus 1 space for each 500
Vet Clinics and Kennels                 square feet of floor area over 1,000
                                        square feet.
                                        Parking space requirements shall be
Uses not specifically noted             determined by, but not limited to,
                                        characteristics for the most similar
                                        use.
(amd. Ord. 1081, 5-1-2024; Ord. 1100, 4-16-2025)
§ 11-3-5: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
   In all zoning districts, accessory structures shall be subject to the
following performance standards.
   A.   Construction:
      1.   Structures are prohibited from being taller than the principal
structure.
      2.   Building permits are required for all permanent accessory structures
over two hundred (200) square feet in residential districts and one thousand
(1,000) square feet in business and industrial districts.
      3.   Temporary accessory structures including tents that consist of metal
or fiberglass poles, metal hoops and PVC, cotton or nylon fabric covering
materials are prohibited except as permitted in conjunction with an approved
conditional use, permitted camping area, or special event.
      4.   The exterior finishes of accessory structures sized less than two
hundred (200) square feet shall be constructed of quality weather resistant
materials.
   B.   Accessory Structures, Primary and Accessory Garages Exterior Material
Standards:
 
Property Classification            Exterior Finish
                                   For accessory structures over 200 sq. ft.:
                                   Wood, metal, split face block, vinyl lap, or
Agricultural Districts             cement board materials that are
                                   complimentary to the color palette of the
                                   principal structure
                                   For accessory structures over 200 sq. ft.:
Residential Districts              Wood, split face block, vinyl lap, or cement
                                   board materials that are complimentary to
                                   the color palette of the principal structure
                                   Materials, texture, and color palette to
Business Districts incl. Mixed-Use compliment the principal structure,
                                   accessory structures greater than 1,000 sq.
                                   ft. require site plan review
                                   Materials, texture, and color palette to
Industrial Districts               compliment the principal structure,
                                   accessory structures greater than 1,000 sq.
                                   ft. require site plan review
 
   C.   Number and Size. The number and size of accessory structures or
accessory garages are permitted on any lot shall be determined by the following
table. On a residential lot, the primary garage, attached or detached up to one
thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet, one (1) accessory structure up to two
hundred (200) square feet, and swimming pools shall not count towards the
number of accessory structures or total square footage calculations.
Property Classification Number Total Size
Property Classification Number                    Total Size
AG-1                    2                         2,500 sq. ft.
AG-2                    2                         2,500 sq. ft.
R-1                     2                         2,500 sq. ft.
R-2                     2                         2,000 sq. ft.
R-3                     1                         1,000 sq. ft.
R-4 (Single Family      1                         1,000 sq. ft.
Detached)
R-4 (Single Family      1                         500 sq. ft. per unit
Attached)
R-5                     1                         500 sq. ft. per unit
R-6                     1                         500 sq. ft. per unit
Business                1 - Site plan review over Site plan review over 1,000
                        1,000 sq. ft.             sq. ft.
Industrial              2 - Site plan review over Site plan review over 1,000
                        1,000 sq. ft.             sq. ft
 
   D.   Setbacks. Setbacks for accessory structures, primary and accessory
garages shall be determined by the following table. No structure of any kind
shall be placed within twenty feet (20') of a public street right of way on a
corner lot.
Property Classification Side Yard Rear Yard Front Yard
Property Classification Side Yard              Rear Yard       Front Yard
AG-1                    25 feet                50 feet         Behind principal
                                                               structure
AG-2                    25 feet                50 feet         Behind principal
                                                               structure
R-1                     20 feet                50 feet         Behind principal
                                                               structure
R-2                     20 feet                20 feet         Behind principal
                                                               structure
R-3                     6 feet                 10 feet         Behind principal
                                                               structure
R-4                     6 feet                 10 feet         Behind principal
                                                               structure
R-5                     6 feet                 10 feet         Behind principal
                                                               structure
R-6                     6 feet                 10 feet         Behind principal
                                                               structure
Business                Not permitted in side- Follow building Behind principal
                        yard                   setbacks        structure
Industrial adjacent to  Not permitted in side- 100 feet        Behind principal
Residential             yard                                   structure
Industrial not adjacent Follow building        Follow building Behind principal
to Residential          setbacks               setbacks        structure
 
   E.   Height. Height of accessory structures, primary and accessory garages
shall be determined by the following table.
Property Classification Maximum
Property Classification Maximum
AG-1                    20 feet, except as permitted under Minnesota Statutes
AG-2                    20 feet, except as permitted under Minnesota Statutes
R-1                     20 feet
R-2                     20 feet
R-3                     18 feet
R-4                     18 feet
R-5                     18 feet
R-6                     18 feet
Business and industrial 20 feet
 
   F.   Miscellaneous Requirements.
      1.   Accessory structures and accessory garages greater than those
permitted in subsections C and E of this Section may be approved by conditional
use permit if the following standards are met:
         a.   There is adequate setback, screening, or topography changes that
buffer the proposed structure from adjacent public roadways or adjacent
properties.
         b.   The proposed building height or building square footage does not
exceed the ordinance criteria by more than twenty percent (20%) within the
metropolitan urban service area (MUSA) and forty percent (40%) outside the
MUSA.
         c.   Setback distances are increased five feet (5') for each one foot
(1') of height or one hundred (100) square feet of size increase or fraction
thereof.
      2.   No accessory structures, primary or accessory garages shall be
constructed on any lot prior to the time of construction of the principal
structure, unless the building is accessory to the ongoing agricultural land
use.
      3.   No tent, trailer, camper, motor home, storage container or accessory
building shall at any time be used as a habitable building.
      4.   At-grade structures such as basketball courts, tennis courts,
patios, tree houses, and dog kennels shall meet the established accessory
structure setbacks for the appropriate districts. These structures are not
included in the total allowable accessory structure square footage, as long as
the total impervious surface of the lot does not exceed thirty-five percent
(35%) of the rear area of the lot measured from the rear building line of the
house to the rear lot line.
      5.   Swimming pools and surrounding apron/decks shall meet the
established accessory structure setbacks for the appropriate districts. These
structures are not included in the total allowable accessory structure square
footage.
      6.   Temporary family healthcare dwellings are prohibited in all zoning
districts.
      7.   Detached primary or accessory garages over 400 square feet may be
located in the front yard between the dwelling and front property line on
properties located adjacent to the Mississippi River or are impacted by bluffs
within the Mississippi River Corridor Critical Area Overlay (MRCCA) provided
all of the following are met:
         a.   Detached primary or accessory garages shall meet the underlying
zoning district's development standards and shall not be located within the
minimum front yard setback.
         b.   Exterior materials including color and roof material of detached
garages and accessory structures shall match or complement the existing primary
residential structure and shall conform to all other requirements of the
underlying zoning district.
         c.   No other accessory structures are permitted in the front yard.
(Ord. 1100, 4-16-2025)
§ 11-3-6: FENCES, RETAINING WALLS AND SCREENING:
   A.   General Requirements for All Types of Fences or Retaining Walls.
      1.   Fences are allowed in any zoning district, subject to the provisions
of this Chapter.
      2.   All parts of a fence shall be on the property of the owner of the
fence. The owner of a fence is responsible to verify the location of their
property lines.
      3.   Every fence shall be constructed in a workmanlike manner and of
substantial material reasonably suited to the purpose for which the fence is to
be used. Every fence shall be maintained in a condition of reasonable repair
and shall not be allowed to become and remain in a condition which would
constitute a public nuisance or a dangerous condition.
      4.   Fences shall not be permitted from the following materials: fabric,
tarp, sheet metals, rebar, plastic slats for chain link, cardboard, pallets,
sticks, plywood, and similar temporary type materials as determined by City
Staff.
      5.   All chainlink fences must have a top rail, barbed ends must be
placed at the bottom of the fence, and vertical posts must be spaced at
intervals not to exceed ten feet (10').
      6.   No fences or walls shall be placed on or extend into public rights-
of-way.
      7.   The finished side of any fence or wall must face abutting property
or street rights of way.
      8.   No fence or wall shall obstruct a motorist’s or pedestrian’s safe
view from the driveway or street as determined by the City.
      9.   All fences and retaining walls located within the Mississippi River
Corridor Critical Area (MRCCA) shall comply with Title 11, Chapter 13.
   B.   Prohibited Fences in All Districts.
      1.   Electric fences are prohibited in all districts, unless the property
is used to fence livestock and has a minimum of five (5) acres of land.
      2.   Barbed and razor wire fences.
      3.   Fences located in the clear view triangle: On corner lots in front
or rear yard, no structure, fence or planting in excess of thirty inches (30")
above the curb line or less than ten feet (10') above the curb line shall be
permitted within a clear view triangle described as that area that begins at
the intersection of the impacted property line and corner side property line
and is measured back ten feet (10') along both property lines. Those points are
then connected with a straight line. See diagram below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3d6c8715b752b002e65b7810d3637762553bea09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1221.png]
 
   NOTE: Illustration is for illustrative purposes only and does not depict all
situations which require compliance with the clear view triangle.
   C.   Fences or Retaining Walls in Residential Districts. All fences and
retaining walls within residential districts must comply with the following.
      1.   No fence or wall shall exceed six feet (6') above grade level along
rear and side property lines or four feet (4') above grade level in the front
yard.
      2.   Fences within fifteen feet (15') of the front property line must be
less than thirty inches (30") above grade level and at least fifty percent
(50%) transparent.
   D.   Fences or Retaining Walls in Business or Industrial Districts. All
fences and retaining walls within business and industrial districts must comply
with the following.
      1.   Fences in business districts must not exceed eight feet (8') above
grade level and are prohibited in the front yard. Fences in excess of eight
feet (8') above grade level and not located in a front yard require a
conditional use permit.
      2.   Fences in industrial districts must not exceed ten feet (10') above
grade level and are prohibited in the front yard. Fences in excess of ten feet
(10') above grade level and not located in a front yard require a conditional
use permit.
      3.   Fences in business and industrial districts shall be high-quality
vinyl-coated chain link (minimum nine (9) gauge thickness with a required top
rail support), brick, stone, wrought iron, decorative metal or other such
material as approved by City Staff.
   E.   Fences on Agricultural Property. All fences on agricultural use
property must comply with the following.
      1.   Fences for agricultural uses must not be greater than eight feet
(8') above grade level and may be located along all property boundary lines.
   F.   Retaining Walls.
      1.   Retaining wall materials shall be of industry accepted quality and
standards so as to prevent unstable retaining walls.
      2.   Construction techniques shall be properly followed in order to
prevent unstable retaining walls.
      3.   Retaining walls over four feet (4') in height must be designed by a
registered architect or engineer and be reviewed and approved by the City
Engineer.
      4.   Retaining walls over thirty inches (30") in height that are located
in pedestrian traffic areas or within thirty-six inches (36") of a public way
walk shall be completely fenced along the top edge with a permanent fencing
material.
§ 11-3-7: EXTERIOR STORAGE:
   A.   Purpose. The presence and accumulation of excessive amounts of material
and equipment on real property creates unsightly conditions that may reduce the
value of real property, create fire and safety hazards, promote blight and
deterioration in the community, and attract rodents and other vermin.
Therefore, accumulation and improper storage of personal property, material and
equipment in violation of this Chapter is declared to constitute a public
nuisance and may be abated as such, which remedy shall be in addition to any
other remedy provided in City Code or by state law.
   B.   Agricultural Districts. Agricultural equipment and materials may be
located on agricultural use property if they are used or usable and intended
for use on the premises.
   C.   Residential Districts. All materials and equipment shall be stored
within a building or be fully hidden with a solid fence or wall so as not to be
visible from adjoining properties except for the following items which are in
use, or usable, and in good condition and limited in quantities to that
normally associated with residential use:
      1.   Clothesline pole and wires;
      2.   Swings, slides and other recreational play structures;
      3.   Outdoor furniture, lawn decorations, nonmotorized lawn and garden
equipment, and outdoor cooking equipment;
      4.   Construction and landscaping material and equipment that are used or
intended for use on the premises within a six (6) month period;
      5.   Off street parking or storage of vehicles and recreational vehicles
as permitted by City Code.
      6.   Trash and garbage receptacles that comply with the standards set
forth in City Code Section
11-3-8; or
      7.   Firewood stacks in any residential district that comply with the
standards set forth in City Code Section
4-1-4.C.
      8.   Storage pods up to ninety (90) days on an improved surface.
   D.   Business Districts. No exterior storage allowed except as an interim
use pursuant to Title 11, Chapter 8.
   E.   Industrial districts. All business, service, storage, merchandise,
display, repair, waste disposal, and processing must be conducted wholly within
a building, except for off street vehicular parking, and off-street loading and
uses specifically listed as including outdoor storage. Outdoor storage is
allowed pursuant to Title 11, Chapter 9. All outdoor storage areas must be
completely screened from all public streets and adjacent properties. Such
screening must include a combination of earth berms fences, walls, and/or
landscaping.
   F.   No exception listed in this Section shall be construed to avoid other
restrictions imposed by City Code or any conditions imposed on any conditional
use permit.
§ 11-3-8: TRASH ENCLOSURES:
   A.   Application. This Section applies to property in the business
districts, industrial districts and residential properties with shared trash
enclosures.
   B.   Closed Containers Required. All waste material, debris, refuse, or
garbage shall be kept in an approved closed container designed for such
purposes.
   C.   Specifications for Enclosure Structures: For all new construction or
major alterations to existing structures, the following standards apply to the
placement and construction specifications of trash enclosure structures:
      1.   The trash enclosure structure must be setback ten feet (10') from
all property lines.
      2.   Such structure shall be situated on a poured in place concrete base,
which shall be extended a minimum of six feet (6') beyond the door opening to
the structure.
      3.   The walls shall be a minimum of six feet (6') in height and shall be
a masonry material or composite fencing consistent with the principal
structure. No roof is required.
      4.   The door opening shall a maintenance-free opaque material. Use of
chain link with vinyl slats is not permitted.
      5.   The trash enclosure shall be consistent with materials found on the
principal structure. (amd. Ord. 1081, 5-1-2024)
§ 11-3-9: MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT SCREENING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Screening Required.
      1.   Rooftop mechanical equipment as viewed from the centerline of all
adjacent right of ways and from property lines of all adjacent residential
properties must be screened by a raised parapet; or with comparable and
compatible exterior building materials.
      2.   Standards for mechanical equipment screening:
         a.   Incidental rooftop equipment deemed unnecessary to be screened by
City Staff must be of a color to match the roof or the sky, whichever is more
effective.
         b.   Metal cabinets used to enclose and protect rooftop mechanical
equipment must not substitute as screening.
      3.   All ground mounted mechanical equipment accessory to the principal
structure thirty inches (30") or greater than twelve (12) cubic feet shall be
screened from public views with landscaping, berming, or screen wall, except
single dwelling unit and double dwelling unit buildings. (Ord. 1100, 4-16-2025)
§ 11-3-10: GLARE AND LIGHTING:
   A.   In all districts, any lighting used to illuminate an off street parking
area, sign, building, or yard shall be so arranged as to deflect light away
from any adjoining residential zone or from the public streets and will be
compatible with adjacent lighting in adjoining districts.
      1.   Reflected glare of spill light shall not exceed 0.5 foot-candle as
measured on the property line when abutting any residential parcel.
      2.   Reflected glare of spill light shall not exceed one (1) foot-candle
as measured on the property line when abutting any business or industrial
parcel.
   B.   Streetlights installed in public rights of way shall be exempt from
these standards.
   C.   Direct or sky reflected glare, whether from floodlights or from high
temperature processes, such as combustion or welding, shall not be directed
into any adjoining property.
   D.   Exterior lighting shall be employed to limit glare and spill light to
protect neighboring parcels and to maintain traffic safety on public roads.
These measures shall include lenses, shields, louvers, prismatic control
devices, and limitations on the height and type of fixtures. The City may also
limit the hours of operation of outdoor lighting if it is deemed necessary to
reduce impacts on the surrounding neighborhood.
   E.   No flickering or flashing lights shall be permitted. Holiday lighting
shall be exempt from this provision.
§ 11-3-11: ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Process. Architectural plans shall be prepared by an architect or other
qualified person and shall show the following:
      1.   Elevations of all sides of the building;
      2.   Type and color of exterior building materials and table with
material percentage breakdown;
      3.   Typical floor plans;
      4.   Dimensions of all structures;
      5.   The location of trash containers and of exterior electrical,
heating, ventilation, and air conditioning equipment (not necessary for single
family buildings); and
      6.   Additional plans deemed necessary by the City Staff.
   B.   Building orientation. Buildings shall be oriented so that at least one
(1) principal entrance faces the public street rather than the interior of the
site.
   C.   Exterior materials. The main exterior wall surface of all buildings
shall be constructed of wood, brick, stone, cement board planks, glass,
architectural concrete textured surfaces or other materials of high quality as
approved by City Staff. Unadorned pre-stressed concrete panels, standard
concrete block and unfinished metal, except naturally weathering metals such as
copper, shall not be permitted as exterior materials for buildings. This
restriction shall apply to all principal structures and to all accessory
buildings, including parking ramps, except those accessory buildings not
visible from any exterior lot line. Exterior materials of structures are
subject to the following:
      1.   Classes of materials. For the purpose of this subsection, materials
are divided into Class 1, Class 2, Class 3, and Class 4 categories as described
below.
         a.   Class 1:
            (1)   Fired clay face brick.
            (2)   Natural stone, synthetic-manufactured or cultured stone.
            (3)   Transparent glass, opaque or mirror window panels.
            (4)   Other comparable or superior materials as determined by the
Community Development Director.
         b.   Class 2:
            (1)   Concrete brick.
            (2)   Masonry stucco/synthetic stucco.
            (3)   Specialty concrete block such as textured, burnished block or
rock faced block.
            (4)   Tile.
         c.   Class 3:
            (1)   Architectural metal panels.
            (2)   Vinyl siding.
            (3)   Cement board or engineered wood siding.
            (4)   Architecturally finished precast concrete panels; grade A or
B, but not grade C.
            (5)   Exterior finish insulation system (EFIS).
         d.   Class 4:
            (1)   Glass block.
            (2)   Smooth concrete block.
            (3)   Smooth scored concrete block.
            (4)   Steel or aluminum siding.
            (5)   Wood.
   D.   Architectural design/compatibility. The exterior architectural
appearance of the proposed structure shall complement the existing structures
and intended character of the immediate area, taking into consideration
building materials, size, shape and heights.
   E.   Window treatment. The use of bars, chains or similar security devices
that are visible from a public street or sidewalk are prohibited.
   F.   Equal façade treatment. “Three hundred sixty degree (360º)
architecture” is required, meaning that facades must be designed to be viewed
from all directions. At a minimum, the same window types and similar trim
detailing must be used on all sides. This requirement shall not be applicable
to walls or roof surfaces which are completely screened from view by other
buildings.
   G.   Residential zoning districts.
      1.   Single family detached dwellings.
         a.   Width. The minimum width of the main portion of the structure
shall be not less than twenty feet (20'), as measured across the narrowest
portion.
         b.   Placement. Every dwelling shall be placed so that the apparent
entrance or front of the home faces or parallels the principal street frontage,
except where the lot size exceeds one (1) acre.
      2.   Multi-family attached dwellings.
         a.   Width. The minimum width of the main portion of the structure
shall be not less than twenty feet (20') as measured across the narrowest
portion in relation to townhomes, duplexes, and other housing products deemed
similar by City Staff.
         b.   Placement. Every dwelling shall be placed so that the apparent
entrance or front of the home faces or parallels the principal street frontage.
      3.   Apartments and nonresidential.
         a.   Materials. Residential buildings of more than six (6) units and
nonresidential or mixed-use buildings must use at least three (3) different
Class 1 materials and be composed of at least sixty-five percent (65%) Class 1
or 2 materials and not more than ten percent (10%) of Class 4 materials.
         b.   The following materials are not acceptable:
            (1)   Unadorned plain or painted concrete block;
            (2)   Tilt-up concrete panels;
            (3)   Synthetic stucco products; and
            (4)   Reflective glass.
         c.   All building facades visible from a public street or walkway
shall employ material and design features similar to those of the front facade.
   H.   Business Districts.
      1.   Materials. Must use at least three (3) different Class 1 or 2
materials and be composed of at least sixty-five percent (65%) Class 1
materials and not more than ten percent (10%) of Class 4 materials.
      2.   Exception. The Planned Business District (PB) shall follow the
architectural standards for industrial districts as defined in Section I below.
   I.   Industrial Districts.
      1.   Materials. Must use at least two (2) different Class 1 or 2
materials and be composed of at least sixty-five percent (65%) Class 1 or 2
materials and not more than ten percent (10%) of Class 4 materials.
      2.   For industrial zoned property only, grade A or B architecturally
finished precast concrete panels are considered a Class 2 material. Grade C
precast panels are prohibited.
      3.   In industrial districts no wall that faces a public right of way,
park or a residential use or district, may have an uninterrupted length
exceeding one hundred feet (100') without including at least two (2) of the
following: change in plane, change in texture or masonry pattern, windows, or
an equivalent element that subdivides the wall into human scale proportions.
(amd. Ord. 1081, 5-1-2024; Ord. 1100, 4-16-2025)
§ 11-3-12: LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Purpose and objective.
      1.   Purpose. Landscaping promotes immediate and long-term public health,
safety, economic stability and general welfare of the City. Landscaping
improves the livability of residential neighborhoods, enhances the appearance
and customer attraction of commercial areas, increases property values,
improves the compatibility of adjacent uses, screens undesirable views,
protects against erosion and reduces air and noise pollution. Uniform standards
of development and maintenance of landscaping are established to promote a
reasonable balance between the right of individuals to develop and maintain
their property in a manner they prefer, while creating pleasant, attractive and
safe surroundings for the community.
      2.   Objective. Required landscaped areas serve the following objectives:
         a.   Protect against soil erosion.
         b.   Reduce hazards of flooding.
         c.   Absorb carbon dioxide and supply oxygen.
         d.   Reduce the effects of noise, glare, dust and other objectionable
activities.
         e.   Safeguard and enhance property values.
         f.   Promote the pleasant appearance and character of neighborhoods
and cities.
         g.   Shade of plants promotes cooling effects.
         h.   Facilitate the safe movement of traffic.
         i.   Promote quality development.
         j.   Promote orderly growth.
         k.   Provide buffering and screening between different intensities of
land use.
         l.   Aid in water conservation and water quality protection by
requiring the use of plant material native to this climate in landscaping and
retention of existing natural vegetation thereby reducing the need for
irrigation, pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers.
   B.   Minimum landscape requirements.
      1.   Locations. The following areas of a site are required to be kept as
landscaped areas:
         a.   Parking lot.
            (1)   Perimeters. The area within fifteen feet (15') of a parking
lot perimeter shall be landscaped with clustered landscaped materials.
            (2)   Interior. Parking lots with more than twenty-five (25)
parking stalls shall contain interior landscaped islands or other landscaped
traffic control or natural stormwater management features making up at least
eight percent (8%) of the parking lot area in size, meeting the following
specifications:
               (a)   Islands adjacent to single vehicle perpendicular parking
rows must be a minimum of five feet (5') wide and sixteen feet (16') in length;
islands adjacent to double vehicle perpendicular parking rows must be a minimum
of five feet (5') wide and thirty-two feet (32') in length.
               (b)   Islands adjacent to single vehicle diagonal parking rows
must be a minimum of eighty (80) square feet; islands adjacent to double
vehicle diagonal parking rows must be a minimum of one hundred sixty (160)
square feet.
               (c)   Islands must be defined by concrete curbing.
               (d)   In lieu of multiple small freestanding landscaped islands,
internal landscape area requirements may be met by the placement of large
linear landscaped areas that define traffic lanes and break up large hard
surface expanses.
         b.   Building perimeters.
            (1)   The sides of a building that face a public street or parking
lot shall be landscaped for a length equal to one-half (1/2) of the building
dimension, with the landscaped region having an average depth of four feet
(4').
            (2)   Existing buildings that have difficulty providing building
perimeter landscape areas because of existing site conditions, may substitute
alternative landscape area designs to satisfy the requirements of this Section.
         c.   Boulevards and right-of-way easements.
            (1)   Areas shall be sodded from the curb to the property line at
the time of completion of the site landscaping.
            (2)   Plantings and locations of materials shall have the approval
of the Public Works Director or designee prior to installation. All maintenance
or replacement of landscape materials is the sole responsibility of the
property owner.
            (3)   Areas in a dedicated public right-of- way or right-of-way
easement are not included in the calculations of the total minimum required
landscaping or open space of a site.
         d.   Storage, loading and mechanical areas of a building.
            (1)   Screening must be provided around exterior storage, exterior
loading, service and mechanical areas to screen the uses from view by adjacent
property or streets.
            (2)   Screening may consist of fences, walls, earth berms and
landscape plantings. Fencing must be a City approved fence design.
            (3)   Walls must be compatible with the architectural treatment of
the principal structure.
      2.   Groundcover. Commercial, industrial or residential sites. Back of
curb to rear of lot line shall be sodded.
         a.   Exceptions.
            (1)   Properties within rural residential or agricultural zoning
districts may be seeded.
            (2)   On sites of five (5) acres or more, the City Staff may
approve plantings of native prairie grasses and wildflowers in front yards, or
side and rear yards adjacent to a public roadway. A long-term maintenance
strategy shall be provided for approval by City Staff.
   C.   Landscaping materials.
      1.   Materials. All landscaping in required landscaped areas shall be
proportionately balanced with other features on the site and shall consist of a
combination of three (3) or more of the following:
         a.   Sod;
         b.   Mulch;
         c.   Shrubs;
         d.   Coniferous trees;
         e.   Ornamental trees;
         f.   Overstory trees;
         g.   Decorative rock;
         h.   Decorative site amenities;
         i.   Any other decorative landscape treatment; and/or
         j.   Berms.
      2.   Size. The following table lists the minimum size requirements for
landscaping vegetation:
 
Vegetation      Caliper/Gallons Height
Ornamental tree 1.5 inch         
Overstory tree  2.5 inch         
Coniferous tree                6 feet
Shrubs                         18 inches
Street Tree     2.5 inch
    
   Caliper Measurements. Caliper measurements shall be taken six inches (6")
above grade for trees under four inches (4") in diameter and twelve inches
(12") above grade for trees larger than four inches (4").
      3.   Landscaping and installation standards.
         a.   Plant Materials. All plant material shall conform to and be
installed in accordance with the most current edition of the American Standard
for Nursery Stock as published by the American Association of Nurserymen, and
professional horticultural standards as established by the most current edition
of the Landscape Construction Reference Manual as published by the Minnesota
Nursery and Landscape Association. All new trees shall be balled and burlapped
for installation.
         b.   Species: No required overstory trees shall include the following
species: any tree on the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources invasive
species list, ash, elm, or box elder tree.
   D.   Residential developments. The minimum required tree and shrub
requirements for all residential developments are as follows:
 
Vegetation Type Minimum Size   Single-Family   Townhouse       Multiple-Family
                               Dwellings       Developments    Dwellings
                               May be          1 per unit, but
                               substituted for may be
                               any of the      substituted on  Minimum of 30%
                               overstory       a 1 for 1 basis of required
Coniferous      6 feet         deciduous trees for the         overstory trees
trees                          except for      overstory       must be
                               front yard      deciduous trees coniferous
                               trees (maximum  except for
                               of 2)           front yard
                                               trees
                                               2 may be        2 may be
                                               substituted for substituted for
                                               1 overstory     1 overstory
Ornamental      1.5 inch                       (maximum        (maximum
deciduous trees (caliper)                     substitution    substitution
                                               equals 25% of   equals 50% of
                                               required        required
                                               overstory       overstory trees)
                                               trees)
                               On lots less
                               than 60 feet
                               wide: 2 per lot 1 per 40 linear
                               On lots 60 feet feet of site    1 per 40 linear
Overstory       2.5 inch       wide or         perimeter. One  feet of site
deciduous trees (caliper)      greater: 3 per  in the front    perimeter, not
                               lot (one in the yard between    including the
                               front yard), no each building   street tree
                               less than 2     group.
                               different
                               species
                                                               1 per 5 linear
Shrubs          18 inch height 10 per unit     5 per unit      feet of site
                                                               perimeter
 
      1.   All non-residential uses in a Residential District shall meet the
Business and Industrial Development landscaping standards in section
11-3-12 (F).
      2.   Front Yard Trees.
         a.   On lots less than sixty (60) feet wide the front yard tree shall
have a maximum canopy spread of thirty (30) feet and maximum height of (30)
feet.
         b.   Front yard trees shall be planted at least five (5) feet from the
nearest public street pavement, curb, sidewalk, or trail.
      3.   Street trees.
         a.   Street trees may be planted in the street boulevard in a manner
determined by the City Forester and in accordance with City Code Title
7-4-3. Trees planted in the boulevard do not count toward required yard trees.
         b.   The location, size and type or species of trees planted shall be
of mixed varieties and shall be approved by the City Forester and shall include
those with root structures unlikely to interfere with utility lines or
sidewalks or otherwise cause nuisance or damage.
         c.   The minimum size of trees to be planted as street trees or right-
of-way replacement trees shall be two and one-half inches (2 ½”) caliper.
         d.   The City Forester shall review and approve proposed street tree
locations per the approved landscape plan.
         e.   On streets having sidewalks, street trees will generally be
planted between the curb and the sidewalk.
      4.   Residential district landscape buffer along major roadways.
         a.   Purpose. The City recognizes the need to protect new and existing
developments in R-2 through R-5 residentially zoned districts from the adverse
impacts of being located adjacent to principal arterials, minor expander, major
and minor collectors as defined in the City’s comprehensive plan (“Major
Roadways”), including concerns for safety, noise, light, glare and emissions.
In the interest of the health, safety, and welfare of residents, new
developments adjacent to Major Roadways must provide for landscaping and
screening lying outside and parallel to the road right-of-way.
         b.   Requirements. For all residential and nonresidential developments
within the R-2 through R-5 residentially zoned districts include frontage along
a Major Roadway, the landscape plan must provide an average of a fifty-foot
(50') buffer, but not less than a thirty-foot (30') buffer, running parallel to
the rear lot line for the purposes of creating a barrier to the Major Roadway.
The buffer shall be a combination of trees, fences and shrubs that create a
minimum of fifty percent (50%) year-round opacity at maturity.
         c.   Maintenance. The proposed developments shall also include a plan
to protect and maintain the tree buffer. This could include a homeowners
association or some other form of protection as approved by City Staff, which
incorporates the buffer into rear yard landscaping.
   E.   Business and industrial developments.
      1.   Minimum vegetation requirements for open space: Each development
must have at least the minimum percentage open space shown in the following
table:
 
                 All Nonresidential Uses
                 In AG and R Districts,  B-2, B-3 and P- Industrial Districts
                 Mixed Use, And B-       B Districts
                 1 Districts
Total gross      30%                     20%             15%
development site
 
      2.   The open space areas must not be covered by a building or other
impervious surface, and must be planted with trees, shrubs, flowers, native
plant species or similar plantings and covered with sod, landscape rock or
mulch. Areas used for demonstrated parking cannot be used to fulfill the open
space requirement.
      3.   Tree and Shrub Calculations. The number of trees and shrubs required
shall be calculated by multiplying the disturbed site area (area impacted by
development including structures, grading, parking, and drive lanes) in square
feet by the coefficients in the following table for each landscape material.
Development on existing sites including additions and redevelopment shall be
calculated using only the square footage of any newly disturbed areas:
 
Zoning District                         Overstory Deciduous Coniferous Shrubs
All nonresidential uses in all AG and R
districts, B-1, Mixed Use, and (site    0.0002786           0.0002600  0.0006
area minus stormwater basins)
B-2, B-3 and P-B (site area minus       0.0001858           0.0001733  0.0004
stormwater basins)
Industrial (site area minus stormwater  0.0001392           0.0001300  0.00039
basins)
 
   F.   Building Permits and Certificates of Occupancy.
      1.   Financial Guarantee and Warranty. For new construction in
industrial, business and residential districts with common lot landscaping, no
building permit shall be issued until the required landscaping plan has been
submitted to and approved by City Staff, and a cash escrow, or irrevocable
letter of credit from an approved banking institution, has been posted and
approved by the City. The required financial guarantee shall be one hundred
fifty percent (150%) of the cost of the landscaping project. Once the approved
and required landscape has been installed, the City shall inspect to verify
completion and reduce the financial guarantee by fifty percent (50%). The
remaining financial guarantee shall be in effect for one (1) year from the date
of verified installation to ensure the installation, survival and replacement
of the landscaping improvements. The landscaping improvements must survive one
(1) full growing season from the date of the installation, and any plantings
that do not survive shall be replaced.
      2.   Installation of Landscaping. After an escrow or irrevocable letter
of credit has been posted, the landscaping material required in the approved
landscaping plan shall be installed within six (6) months after the date of
posting the bond or irrevocable letter of credit. A 1-month extension of the
planting period may be granted by City Staff upon a demonstration by the
property owner or developer that such an extension is warranted because of
adverse weather conditions or unavailability of required plant materials. No
more than three (3) such one (1) month extensions may be granted. The City may
draw upon any posted financial guarantee if the required landscaping
improvements have not been installed by the specified completion time or any
plantings that have not survived a period of one (1) year have not been
replaced.
   G.   Irrigation. Irrigation shall be provided for all sodded and landscaped
areas. Said irrigation shall consist of an underground sprinkling system that
is designed by a professional irrigation installer to meet the water
requirements of the site’s specific vegetation. The system shall be detailed on
the landscape plan. Systems are permitted in the public right-of-way. The
maintenance and repair of all private irrigation systems placed in public
rights-of-way shall be the responsibility of the system owner. Irrigation
systems that will interfere with any improvement projects in the public right-
of-way shall, upon notification, be moved by the system owner at the system
owner’s expense prior to the project commencement. Any additional improvement
project costs incurred as a result of irrigation systems that are not removed
after notification shall be the responsibility of the system owner. Irrigation
systems shall be so designed and installed that they do not spray across public
streets or sidewalks.
   H.   Public landscaping care. The City shall have the right to plant, prune,
maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs within any public right-of-way or
public grounds as may be necessary to ensure the proper health of the
vegetation or surrounding vegetation, the general public safety or to preserve
or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public ground.
   I.   Landscape plan submittal requirements.
      1.   Plan required. A detailed landscape plan prepared by a professional
landscape company, an accredited landscape technician or a landscape architect
registered by the state shall be submitted for review and approval by the
planning division with any application for a building permit for a new
structure, a site plan approval, or a subdivision approval. Each landscape plan
shall reflect the purpose statement of this Section and shall be prepared to
meet the objectives and requirements.
      2.   Design emphasis shall be placed on the following:
         a.   Screening parking view from public roadways and adjoining
properties.
         b.   Enhancing driveway entrance areas.
         c.   Promoting the maintenance of vital sightlines of the principal
use on the site.
         d.   Mitigating the visual impacts of large areas of impervious
surfaces.
         e.   Maintaining efficient traffic and parking control.
         f.   Reducing the amount of uninterrupted blank walls.
         g.   Reducing the amount of contiguous hard surface areas at building
entrances, along sidewalks and around other highly visible areas.
      3.   Plan drawings. At the time of application, all of the following
information shall be indicated graphically and labeled clearly on a one (1)
dimension scaled drawing electronic copy for all exhibits in the plan:
         a.   Property lines, easements, and other pertinent boundary
information.
         b.   Adjacent and intersecting street rights-of-way, widths, and
street names.
         c.   Existing and proposed structures, buildings, walks, drives,
landscaping and parking areas (with number of spaces noted), and any other
structures. Existing items shall be differentiated from proposed.
         d.   Existing and proposed utilities and utility easements.
         e.   Existing and proposed two (2) foot contour lines.
         f.   Corner visibility triangle areas.
         g.   Tree inventory and preservation plan.
         h.   Proposed plantings by location, scientific name, common name,
quantity, caliper and planting method.
         i.   Total square footage of parcel, buildings, parking lot interior,
driveways, sidewalks, and required landscaped areas.
         j.   Location, height and material of proposed screening, fencing and
berms.
         k.   Title block containing the following: date, name of project,
name, address and phone numbers of owner, and the identity of the party who
prepared the plan.
         l.   Legal description.
         m.   North arrow.
         n.   Graphic scale of 1-inch equals forty feet (40') or larger.
         o.   Adjacent land uses.
         p.   Fringe information within a distance of one hundred fifty feet
(150') from the project.
         q.   Vegetation management plan for areas planted with native prairie
grasses and wildflowers.
         r.   Property identification number. (amd. Ord. 1081, 5-1-2024; Ord.
1100, 4-16-2025)
§ 11-3-13: TREE PRESERVATION:
   A Site Plan Review is required if trees are being removed from the property,
unless the removal meets an exception in City Code Section
11-3-13.E.
   A.   Purpose and objective.
      1.   Purpose. Trees and woodlands are considered a valuable asset to the
City of Cottage Grove. The City places a priority on protecting this asset and
finds that it is in the best interests of the public to regulate the
development and alteration of wooded areas within the City. The City also finds
that a certain amount of tree removal is an inevitable consequence of the
development process and seeks to establish comprehensive standards related to
reasonable tree removal and preservation.
      2.   Objective. In order to achieve a realistic balance between tree
protection and development, the City has established standards that with
compliance and enforcement will:
         a.   Protect, preserve and enhance the integrity of the natural
environment;
         b.   Allow for orderly development within wooded areas;
         c.   Minimize tree and wildlife habitat loss and maintain wildlife
corridors;
         d.   Protect privacy by maintaining buffers between land uses;
         e.   Increase and maintain property values;
         f.   Prevent and reduce soil erosion and sedimentation;
         g.   Promote sound stormwater management practices;
         h.   Improve air quality;
         i.   Reduce noise pollution; and
         j.   Enhance energy conservation through natural insulation and
shading.
   B.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases when used in this
Chapter shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   ACTIVELY DEVELOPING SUBDIVISION: A residential subdivision that has an
approved tree preservation plan, and vacant platted lots controlled by a
development company that is actively promoting, selling, or building
residential units.
   CONIFEROUS TREE: A wood plant which, at maturity, is at least twelve feet
(12') or more in height, and which retains its green color year-round and does
not drop its fronds or needles in the winter.
   CRITICAL ROOT ZONE: An imaginary circle surrounding the tree trunk with a
radius of one foot (1') per one inch (1") of trunk diameter, such that, for
example, a twenty-inch (20") diameter tree has a critical root zone with a
radius of twenty feet (20').
   DBH: Diameter of a tree measured four and one-half feet (4 ½') above the
ground.
   DRIP LINE: The farthest distance away from the trunk of a tree that rain or
dew will fall directly to the ground from the leaves or the branches of the
tree.
   HARDWOOD DECIDUOUS TREE: A tree of one (1) of the following species:
ironwood, oak, maple (hard), walnut, hickory, birch, black cherry, hackberry,
or locust.
   HEALTHY TREE: A healthy tree has:
      1.   A live top (live crown) that is greater than one-third (1/3) the
total tree height,
      2.   Newly dead branches that make up less than fifteen percent (15%) of
the total crown,
      3.   Less than fifteen percent (15%) of the tree crown with missing
branches,
      4.   Foliage that is dense throughout the live portion of the crown,
      5.   A tree trunk with open wounds that are less than one-third (1/3) the
diameter of the tree, no wounds in contact with the ground, and no wounds that
have soft, punky wood or other indication of decay.
   LARGE WOODLAND TRACT: A wooded area greater than or equal to seven thousand
five hundred (7,500) square feet of contiguous or nearly contiguous canopy
cover.
   QUALIFYING TREE: A healthy tree meeting one (1) of the following
definitions: a hardwood deciduous tree at least six inches (6") DBH, a softwood
deciduous tree at least eight inches (8") DBH, or a coniferous tree at least
ten feet (10') in height, but no trees consisting of the following species: any
tree on the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources invasive species list,
ash, or elm.
   SOFTWOOD DECIDUOUS TREE: A tree of one (1) of the following species:
cottonwood, poplar, aspen, silver maple, basswood, or willow.
   C.   Prohibited tree removal. The removal of qualifying trees on any
property by means of clear cutting or in a systematic removal method shall be
prohibited, except in accordance with a City-approved tree preservation plan or
agricultural management/harvest plan, or unless it is excepted pursuant to
subsection E.
   D.   Allowable tree removal. The following table establishes the maximum
percentage of existing qualifying inches on a project site that may be removed
without mitigation. Mitigation according to the tree replacement schedule is
required when removal surpasses this threshold.
 
Land Use                              Permitted removal threshold (percent of
                                      existing qualifying inches)
Residential <10 units/acre            25%
Residential >10 units/acre, Business/ 40%
Commercial
Industrial                            50%
 
      1.   The following types of trees do not need to be included as part of
the total computation of tree removals:
         a.   Trees determined by the City or the project arborist to be dead,
dying, diseased, or seriously hazardous;
         b.   Trees that were planted as part of a commercial business such as
a tree farm or nursery. The applicant shall provide evidence to support the
finding that the trees were planted as part of a commercial business.
   E.   Exceptions. Tree removal is allowed without preservation plan in the
following circumstances:
      1.   The removal of individual qualifying trees on a developed single-
family residential lot that is not in a pending or actively developing
subdivision.
      2.   The removal of shrubs, brush, buckthorn, and nonqualifying trees by
a property owner.
      3.   The removal of trees seriously damaged by storms, other catastrophic
events or disease, as verified by the City Forester.
      4.   The removal of trees with potential to cause serious damage as
determined by the City Forester.
      5.   The removal of twenty-five (25) or fewer qualifying trees annually
associated with agricultural or commercial horticultural use. Properties in
active agricultural production of trees/tree farms shall have an agricultural
management/harvest plan filed with the City for planned tree removal in excess
of twenty-five (25) qualifying trees annually that shall include the following:
         a.   Legal description of property.
         b.   Crop/tree identification.
         c.   Acres to be managed.
         d.   Soil erosion control measures.
         e.   Removal staging plan.
      6.   The removal of twenty-five (25) or fewer trees.
   F.   Tree preservation plan. The tree preservation plan shall include
separate plan sheets with the following information:
      1.   Contact information of applicants, property owners, developer/
builder, and signature of the person preparing the plan, the certification, and
employer or firm.
      2.   Delineation of the existing buildings, structures, or impervious
surfaces situated on the site.
      3.   Delineation of the proposed buildings, structures, grading or
impervious surfaces planned on the site.
      4.   Delineation of all areas to be graded and limits of land
disturbance.
      5.   Graphic identification of all existing qualifying trees.
      6.   Graphic identification of all qualifying trees proposed to be
removed within the construction area.
      7.   Tree protection plan as described below.
      8.   A listing of the total diameter inches of existing qualifying trees
on the site.
      9.   A listing of the total diameter inches of healthy qualifying trees
proposed to be removed.
      10.   Calculation of replacement trees required per the mitigation
requirements this Chapter.
         a.   Coniferous tree calculation. Every two feet (2') in height of a
removed qualifying coniferous tree is equal to one (1) qualifying inch.
      11.   Tree inventory prepared by a certified arborist that meets the
following requirements:
         a.   Table listing each qualifying tree on the site and specifying its
identification number (linked to a metal field tag placed on the tree’s trunk
five feet (5') from grade); species; size (dbh in inches for deciduous trees
and height in feet for coniferous trees); classification as hardwood, softwood,
or coniferous per the definitions of this Section; and whether the tree is to
be preserved or removed.
         b.   Exception. For sites containing a large woodland tract within
which no qualifying trees will be disturbed, an alternative inventory meeting
the following requirements may be provided:
            (1)   Trees within undisturbed large woodland tracts are not
required to be inventoried individually. Instead, the area of the undisturbed
tract may be measured in square feet (on site or by means of an aerial photo)
and divided by sixty (60) to produce a proxy that shall be counted as the
number of inches the tract contributes to the total qualifying inches.
            (2)   All qualifying trees located on the site but outside of an
undisturbed large woodland tract shall be inventoried as described in (1)
above.
            (3)   The site’s total existing qualifying inches shall be the sum
of the inches contributed by undisturbed large woodland tracts and by
qualifying trees outside the tract.
   G.   Mitigation.
      1.   For any development or site in which the number of qualifying inches
removed exceeds the permitted removal threshold, the applicant shall mitigate
the tree loss in one (1) of the following ways.
         a.   Planting replacement trees in appropriate areas within the
development in accordance with the tree replacement schedule; or
         b.   Paying to the City a cash mitigation fee, based on the diameter
inches of required replacement in accordance with the tree replacement
schedule. The cash fee in lieu of required replacement inches shall be in
accordance with the individualized calculation for the development or site and
described fully in a development agreement or improvement agreement; payment
shall be deposited into the public landscaping initiative fund prior to tree
removal activities.
      2.   Landscaping credit. Replacement trees planted in accordance with a
tree preservation plan and related mitigation shall be credited against City
landscaping requirements.
      3.   Tree Replacement Schedule:
         a.   Quantity: Qualifying tree inches removed beyond the permitted
thresholds shall be replaced at a rate of fifty percent (50%), equaling one (1)
replacement caliper inch for two (2) removed diameter inches.
         b.   Size: Deciduous trees planted in mitigation of excessive tree
loss shall have a minimum caliper of two and one-half inches (2 1/2") and
coniferous trees shall be a minimum of six feet (6') tall.
         c.   Species: Coniferous trees or hardwood deciduous trees as defined
and described in Section B are the only tree species permitted to be used as
replacement trees. One (1) new conifer six feet (6') in height shall be
credited as contributing two (2) caliper inches to the total of required
replacement inches. Where ten (10) or more replacement trees are required, not
more than thirty-three percent (33%) of the replacement trees shall be of the
same species of tree. Applicants are encouraged to plant trees indigenous to
the area. In no case shall a tree of a species listed on the DNR invasive
species list be planted as a replacement tree.
      4.   Example calculation:
 
Total Existing Permitted Removal Inches Permitted                Excess Inches
Qualifying     Threshold         to Be Removed    Inches Removed Removed
Inches
1500           50%               750              1,000          250
 
 
Replacement Rate Replacement Inches Replacement Inch    Replacement Trees (One
                 Required           Credits             Possible Combination)
                                    Hardwood deciduous: 30 hard wood deciduous
50%              125                2.5"                and 25 coniferous
                                    Coniferous: 2"
 
   H.   Tree protection plan. The applicant shall implement the tree protection
plan prior to and during any grading or construction activity. In addition,
tree protection measures shall remain in place until all land disturbance and
construction activity is terminated or until a request to remove the tree
protection measures is made to, and approved by, the City.
      1.   The applicant will hire a project arborist that is a certified
arborist or forester to assist with all facets of tree preservation on the
site.
      2.   The applicant shall arrange for the City and project arborist to
inspect the construction site prior to the beginning of grading to ensure that
protective fencing and other protective measures are in place and installed
correctly, if requested by the City. Minor encroachment, grading, trenching,
filling, compaction, or change in soil chemistry may occur within the fenced
areas protecting the critical root zone of the trees to be saved under the
direct supervision of the project arborist.
      3.   Qualifying trees designated for preservation which are found to be
diseased, or dying, or are not suited for location into the project may be
removed without penalty based upon the written recommendation of the project
arborist. Documentation of qualifying trees recommended for removal by project
arborist must be provided to the City prior to removal of said trees.
      4.   If a qualifying tree that was intended to be preserved is removed
without providing prior documentation to the City, the applicant shall mitigate
the unplanned tree removal through replacement at a rate of one hundred percent
(100%), that is, one (1) replacement caliper inch will be required for each one
(1) diameter inch of a removed deciduous tree, and one (1) replacement foot
shall be required for each one foot (1') of height of a removed coniferous
tree. Alternatively, unplanned tree removal shall be mitigated by payment of a
cash fee equivalent to the cost of the number of new trees this replacement
rate would require, in accordance with the City Forester’s annual determination
of the costs of new trees.
      5.   The City shall have the right to inspect the development and/or
building site in order to determine compliance with the approved tree
preservation plan. The City shall determine whether compliance with the tree
protection plan has been met.
      6.   Required protective measures. The applicant shall complete all
recommendations made by the project arborist, and shall implement the following
measures to be utilized to protect qualifying trees:
         a.   No grade change, construction activity, or storage of materials
shall occur within the drip line or critical root area of qualifying trees to
be preserved.
         b.   Prevention of change in soil chemistry due to concrete washout
and leakage or spillage of toxic materials, such as fuels or paints.
      7.   Warranty. Any replacement tree which is not alive or healthy, as
determined by the City, or which subsequently dies, other than those damaged by
storms or other acts of God, or diseased, unless caused by construction
activity, within one (1) year after the date of project closure, shall be
removed by the applicant and replaced with a new, healthy tree meeting the same
minimum size requirements immediately after removal. The required landscaping
letter of credit may be retained by the City and used to ensure the applicant
conforms to this requirement.
CHAPTER 4: SPECIAL ZONING PROVISIONS
Section
11-4-1: Density Bonuses
11-4-2: Drive-Through Establishments and Fast-Food Restaurants
11-4-3: Home Occupations
11-4-4: Event Centers
11-4-5: Motor Fuel Stations
11-4-6: Automotive, Motorcycle, Trailer, Recreational Vehicle and Farm
Equipment Sales and Leasing
11-4-7: Automobile Car Wash
11-4-8: Vehicle Repair as Permitted or Conditional Use
11-4-9: Self-Storage Facilities
11-4-10: Donation Drop Boxes
11-4-11: Wind Energy Conversion Systems (WECS)
11-4-12: Satellite Receive-Only Antennas (SROA)
11-4-13: Solar Energy Systems
11-4-14: Antennas and Towers
11-4-15: Farming Operations in Residential Districts
11-4-16: Outdoor Seating or Dining
11-4-17: Temporary Accessory Outdoor Sales
11-4-18: Cannabis Uses And Lower-Potency Hemp Edible Uses
§ 11-4-1: DENSITY BONUSES:
   Density bonuses consistent with the comprehensive plan may be granted by the
City Council to increase the maximum permitted density for residentially guided
land, if the proposed project meets certain affordable housing policies. The
allowable total density increase under this provision shall not be increased
more than twenty percent (20%). For determining AMI requirements, the City
shall utilize Metropolitan Council data.
Average Median Income (AMI) Density Increases: Density Bonus
Average Median Income (AMI) Density Increases:             Density Bonus
10 to 15% of the total units set aside for 30% AMI         15-20%
15 to 20% of the total units set aside for 31 to 50% AMI   10-15%
20 to 30% of the total units set aside for 51 to 80% AMI   10-15%
Affordable housing site and design incentives:
Preservation of significant wooded areas and open space    0-5%
Sustainable design (i.e. LEED, Solar, etc.)                0-5%
Onsite amenities (common space, playgrounds, sport courts) 0-5%
Underground parking                                        0-5%
Transit Access (i.e. TOD, BRT, or park and rides)          0-5%
 
§ 11-4-2: DRIVE-THROUGH ESTABLISHMENTS AND FAST-FOOD RESTAURANTS:
   Drive-through establishments and fast-food restaurants in all districts
shall be subject to the following performance standards:
   A.   Screening. Screening shall be required on property lines that are
adjacent to residential districts or uses.
   B.   Menuboards. Digital menuboards shall not be lit outside the hours of
operation.
   C.   Stacking. Business establishments containing drive-up facilities,
including restaurants and financial institutions, shall provide a motor vehicle
stacking area for vehicles on the site. A minimum of six (6) vehicle spaces per
lane shall be provided. The vehicle stacking area shall not extend beyond the
street right of way line and shall be delineated in such a manner that vehicles
waiting in line will not interfere with nor obstruct the primary driving,
parking and pedestrian facilities on the site. Stacking area shall be setback
from property lines ten feet (10') to allow sufficient space for adequate snow
removal and storage.
   D.   Electronic Devices. Loudspeakers, squawkboxes or similar drive-through
speaker systems shall not be located less than fifty feet (50') from any
adjacent residential district or use.
§ 11-4-3: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Use. Home occupations are permitted as an accessory use to a
residential use of a property within all zoning districts within the City,
subject to meeting the performance standards established in this Section.
   B.   Performance Standards. A home occupation must conform to all of the
following standards.
      1.   No more than one (1) person, other than the occupants of the
dwelling, shall be employed on the premises at any one (1) time.
      2.   Identification signs shall conform to this Code.
      3.   The appearance of the structure shall not be altered or the
occupation within the residence be conducted in a manner which would cause the
premises to differ from its residential character either by the use of colors,
materials, construction, lighting or advertising signs or the emission of
sounds, odors, noise, vibrations, heat, glare or electrical disturbances.
      4.   No home occupation shall be conducted in any accessory building that
is conducted in a manner which would cause the premises to differ from its
residential character either by the use of colors, materials, construction,
lighting or advertising signs or the emission of sounds, odors, noise,
vibrations, heat, glare or electrical disturbances.
      5.   The use shall not create substantial traffic. The number of customer
vehicular trips to the dwelling unit for the purpose of obtaining products or
service shall not exceed ten (10) per day. Vehicular trips related to package
pick-ups and deliveries for home occupations shall be limited to four (4) per
day and is restricted to straight axle vehicles only. Any need for parking
shall be off the street and be located on approved parking surfaces.
      6.   No home occupation shall cause an increase in sewer or water usage
so that the combined total use for dwelling and home occupation purposes
exceeds the normal range for residences in the City.
      7.   Exterior storage or display of materials or equipment of any kind is
prohibited.
      8.   No more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the principal structure
may be devoted to home occupation use.
      9.   Food related businesses must comply with Minnesota Statutes Section
28A.152 and all provisions of the Zoning Code.
   C.   Prohibited Home Occupations. The following uses shall not be permitted
as home occupations:
      1.   Adult uses.
      2.   Animal hospitals, pet shops, pet daycare.
      3.   Any cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible uses.
      4.   Medical and dental offices, clinics and laboratories.
      5.   Restaurants.
      6.   Stables or kennels, except as allowed by City Code.
      7.   Vehicle sales requiring a Minnesota dealers or wholesale license.
      8.   Vehicle, trailer or boat repair or service.
      9.   Other uses as determined by the Community Development Director.
(amd. Ord. 1088, 12-4-2024)
§ 11-4-4: EVENT CENTERS:
   A.   Event Centers must comply with the requirements of this Section.
   B.   Patios and outdoor seating, dining or gathering areas:
      1.   When adjacent to residentially zoned property, there shall be a
minimum setback of one hundred fifty feet (150') from any patio or outdoor
gathering area to the nearest residentially zoned property line. Patio or
outdoor gathering areas shall be separated from residential use or district by
the principal structure or other method of screening acceptable to the City.
The minimum distance from a residential use or district may be reduced should
the City determine the applicant has added sufficient elements to reduce the
impact of this use.
      2.   Patio or outdoor gathering areas shall be screened in a manner that
completely restricts vision of the patio or gathering area from an adjacent
residentially zoned property.
      3.   No outdoor sound amplification systems shall be allowed when
adjacent to residential properties. When not located adjacent to residentially
zoned property an outdoor sound amplification system shall not be allowed after
eight o’clock (8:00) P.M. All speakers must be directed away from any
residentially zoned property.
      4.   Any outdoor seating or dining area shall comply with City Code
Section
11-4-16.
   C.   Parking areas:
      1.   Parking areas shall be screened from any adjacent residentially
zoned property.
      2.   Off street parking requirements shall meet the restaurant parking
requirements and other standards identified in City Code Section
11-3-4.
   D.   Lighting:
      1.   Lighting shall be provided as necessary for security safety, and
traffic circulation. All light poles shall be a maximum of twenty feet (20') in
height, including base, and shall be shoebox style, with LED lamps. Other than
wash or architectural lighting, attached security lighting shall be shoebox
style. In addition, any entry lighting under canopies shall be recessed and use
a flush lens. All lighting shall be downward directed with flush lens and shall
be zero lumen at any residentially zoned property line or one (1.0) lumen at
any nonresidential zoned property line.
      2.   Lights producing varying intensities, changing colors, moving lights
or search lights are prohibited.
   E.   The hours of operation shall be no later than ten o’clock (10:00) P.M.
on Sunday through Thursday and twelve o’clock (12:00) A.M. on Friday and
Saturday.
   F.   The serving of food and beverages is permitted only in conjunction with
a private event that is not open to the general public.
   G.   Trash containers shall be stored indoors, or if outdoors, all trash
enclosures shall be screened.
§ 11-4-5: MOTOR FUEL STATIONS:
   Motor fuel stations in all districts shall be subject to the following
standards:
   A.   Minimum Pump Setback Requirements. Pumps shall be set back no less than
twenty-five feet (25') from all property lines.
   B.   Canopies.
      1.   The setback of any overhead canopy or weather protection,
freestanding or projecting from the station structure, shall be not less than
ten feet (10') from the street right-of-way line, nor less than twenty feet
(20') from an adjacent property line.
      2.   The total height of any overhead canopy or weather protection shall
not exceed twenty feet (20').
      3.   No light banding around the exterior of the canopy.
      4.   Canopy columns shall be constructed of a Class 1 material that
matches and compliments the principal building.
   C.   Architectural Design. Each motor fuel station shall be so
architecturally designed as to be as compatible as possible with the general
architectural intent of the area in which it is located.
   D.   Landscaping. A minimum twenty (20) foot landscaped yard shall be
planted and maintained behind all property lines adjacent to public streets,
except at driveway entrances.
   E.   Screening. Whenever a motor fuel station abuts a residential district,
a fence or landscape hedge not less than fifty percent (50%) opaque nor less
than six feet (6') high shall be erected and maintained along the property line
(s) that abuts the residential district. Application of this provision shall
not require a fence within fifteen feet (15') of any street right-of-way line.
   F.   Each fuel service pump may count as one (1) parking space toward
minimum off street parking standards. (Ord. 1100, 4-16-2025)
§ 11-4-6: AUTOMOTIVE, MOTORCYCLE, TRAILER, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE AND FARM
EQUIPMENT SALES AND LEASING:
   A.   Performance Standards.
      1.   Display and storage areas must be on the same lot as the principal
structure.
      2.   No parking of items for sale is allowed in landscaped areas.
      3.   Customer and employee parking areas must be clear. No parking or
vehicle display is allowed in driveways, entrances, or customer parking areas.
      4.   No test driving on local residential roads.
      5.   Pennants, balloons, streamers, pinwheels, or other attention
attracting devices are not allowed. Open hoods of vehicles, windshields, car
windows, trunks, roofs, or the like must not be used for signage.
      6.   All lighting must be downward directed with cutoff fixtures. No
signs may be attached to light poles.
      7.   No loudspeakers or music systems are allowed outside of the
building.
§ 11-4-7: AUTOMOBILE CAR WASH:
   A.   The site and building(s) shall be designed to limit the effects of the
washing operation on adjacent properties and public rights of way. Garage doors
shall be positioned to limit exposure to main roadways and residential
districts. No car wash use shall be located abutting any residential use or
district, unless a public street separates the two (2) uses.
   B.   The principal building shall be the primary source for screening the
stacking and exiting areas from adjacent properties and/or public rights of
way. Landscaping and berming at a minimum of fifty percent (50%) capacity shall
be a secondary source for screening the stacking and exiting areas. Should
landscaping and berming be found ineffective by the City, the City may approve
screening walls and/or decorative fencing as an alternative if the following
standards are met:
      1.   Shall be constructed of the same materials as the principal
building;
      2.   Shall not extend more than twenty-five feet (25') without a change
in architecture to reduce their mass and appearance;
      3.   Stacking areas shall have a minimum of ninety percent (90%) opacity
screen to a height of six feet (6'); and
      4.   Exiting areas shall have a minimum of fifty percent (50%) opacity
screen to a height of at least four feet (4').
   C.   All overhead vehicle doors on the building shall remain closed except
when a vehicle is entering or exiting the building.
   D.   Commercial car washes shall have a minimum of four (4) stacking spaces
per wash stall.
   E.   Stacking lanes shall not interfere with circulation in any required
parking, loading, maneuvering or pedestrian area.
   F.   Untreated water from the car wash shall not be discharged into the
storm sewer.
§ 11-4-8: VEHICLE REPAIR AS PERMITTED OR CONDITIONAL USE:
   A.   Vehicle repair as a permitted use in industrial districts is subject to
the following:
      1.   Vehicle repair uses within one hundred feet (100') from a
residential use or residential zoning district are prohibited.
      2.   All repair, assembly, disassembly or maintenance of vehicles shall
occur within a closed building, except minor maintenance, including tire
inflation, adding oil, wiper replacement and the like.
      3.   Outdoor storage of tires, parts, materials and equipment is
prohibited.
      4.   Vehicle repair uses shall designate on a site plan separate areas
for customer parking and parked vehicles awaiting repair or pick up.
      5.   Public address system outside a building is prohibited.
      6.   The hours of operation for a vehicle repair use shall be between
seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) P.M., seven (7) days per
week.
      7.   Repair of class I and class II commercial vehicles is prohibited.
   B.   Vehicle repair as a conditional use in business districts is subject to
the following:
      1.   The site and building(s) shall be designed to limit the effects of
this use on adjacent properties and public right of way.
      2.   All repair, assembly, disassembly or maintenance of vehicles shall
occur within a closed building, except minor maintenance, including tire
inflation, adding oil, wiper replacement and the like.
      3.   All overhead vehicle doors facing a residential use or residential
zoning district shall remain closed except when a vehicle is entering or
exiting the building.
      4.   Outdoor storage of tire, parts, materials and equipment is
prohibited.
      5.   Vehicle repair uses shall designate on a site plan separate areas
for customer parking and parked vehicles awaiting repair or pick up. Storage of
inoperable vehicles awaiting repair that are within one hundred feet (100')
from a residential use or residential zoning district must be enclosed from
public view with a solid fence that is six feet (6') in height. A chain link
fence with slats is not acceptable screening.
      6.   Public address system outside a building is prohibited.
      7.   The hours of operation may be restricted to limit impacts to
adjacent uses.
      8.   Auto body repair is prohibited.
      9.   Additional landscaping and screening on the site may be required to
limit sight and noise impacts on adjacent uses.
      10.   Repair of Class I and Class II commercial vehicles is prohibited.
      11.   Advertising signage facing residential uses is prohibited.
§ 11-4-9: SELF-STORAGE FACILITIES:
   Self-storage facilities require a conditional use permit and in addition are
subject to the following conditions:
   A.   Shall not allow maintenance of any vehicles on site, except for minor
maintenance such as tire inflation, adding oil, wiper replacement, and battery
replacement.
   B.   No businesses shall be allowed to operate out of the storage unit
facilities.
   C.   Shall have a security system adequate to limit access to persons
renting a storage site.
   D.   Shall not be located closer than three hundred feet (300') to any
residential use.
   E.   All drive aisles and parking surfaces must be surfaced with asphalt or
concrete.
   F.   All storage space openings shall be oriented internally to the facility
and shall not directly face a public street or adjoining property if feasible.
§ 11-4-10: DONATION DROP BOXES:
   Donation Drop Boxes require an Administrative Conditional Use permit with
conditions regarding the time, location, size and collection schedule.
§ 11-4-11: WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS (WECS):
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section is to provide for the regulation
of the construction and operation of wind energy conversion systems in Cottage
Grove, subject to reasonable conditions that will protect the environment,
public health, safety, and welfare.
   B.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases when used in this
Chapter shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   FACILITY OPERATOR: The entity responsible for the day to day operation and
maintenance of the wind energy conversion system.
   FACILITY OWNER: The entity or entities having controlling or majority equity
interest in the wind energy conversion system, including their respective
successors and assigns.
   SUBSTATION: The apparatus that connects the electrical collection system of
the WECS(s) and increases the voltage for connection with the utility’s
transmission lines.
   WECS: A wind energy conversion system consisting of one (1) or more wind
turbines, a tower(s), and associated control or conversion electronics, which
has a total rated capacity of fifty (50) or more kilowatts.
   WIND POWER: The conversion of wind energy into another form of energy.
   WIND TURBINE HEIGHT: The distance measured from grade at the center of the
tower to the highest point of the turbine rotor or tip of the turbine blade
when it reaches its highest elevation.
   C.   Conditional Use: Wind energy conversion systems shall be allowed as a
conditional use in the agricultural zoning districts.
   D.   Permit Application: Application for a WECS permit shall be accompanied
by drawings that show the following:
      1.   Location of the proposed WECS, including guywires and any other
auxiliary equipment.
      2.   Property lines and physical dimensions of the lot.
      3.   A photograph or detailed drawing of the WECS, including the tower.
      4.   Specific information on the WECS, including type, size, rated power
output, rotor material and performance, safety and noise characteristics.
      5.   Specific information on the type, height and material of the tower.
      6.   Clearance distances between the farthest extension of the WECS
blades to property lines.
      7.   Location, dimensions and types of existing structures and uses on
the lot.
      8.   Location of all aboveground utility lines within distance equivalent
to the total height of the WECS.
      9.   Location and size of structures, trees and other objects within
three hundred feet (300') which are taller than the lowest extent of the blades
of the proposed WECS.
   E.   Size Regulations; Compliance:
      1.   Rotors. The minimum height of the lowest extent of any WECS rotor
shall be thirty feet (30') above the ground.
      2.   Height.
         a.   Freestanding wind turbine height shall not exceed two hundred
fifty feet (250').
         b.   Roof mounted wind turbines must not exceed fifteen feet (15')
above the height limit established for the principal or accessory structure.
      3.   Compliance With Regulations: All WECS shall comply with federal
aviation administration notification requirements and any other applicable
regulations.
   F.   Installation And Design:
      1.   Towers:
         a.   All WECS tower structures shall be designed and constructed to be
in compliance with pertinent provisions of the Minnesota state building code.
Indication of compliance may be obtained from the manufacturer’s engineering
staff or a state professional engineer.
         b.   The compatibility of the tower structure with the rotors and
other components of the WECS shall be certified by the manufacturer’s
engineering staff or by a state professional engineer.
         c.   WECS towers shall either have tower climbing apparatus located
not closer than twelve feet (12') to the ground or be unclimbable by design for
the first twelve feet (12').
      2.   Safety Wires: Safety wires shall be installed on the turnbuckles on
guywires of guyed WECS towers.
      3.   Overspeed Controls: Every WECS shall be equipped with manual and
automatic overspeed controls. The conformance of rotor and overspeed control
design and fabrication with good engineering practices shall be certified by
the manufacturer’s engineering staff or by a state professional engineer.
      4.   Electrical Requirements:
         a.   All electrical components of the WECS shall be in compliance with
the applicable requirements of the national electrical code as currently
adopted by the Minnesota state building code division and shall be inspected by
a qualified electrical inspector. The interconnection between the WECS and the
electric utility shall be in compliance with the most recent edition of the
national electrical code. Certification will be supplied in writing that the
WECS will automatically disconnect from the utility when there is no power
input from the utility. This certification can be supplied by the manufacturer
of the WECS.
         b.   The interconnection of the WECS with the local electrical utility
shall comply with all applicable federal and state regulations. Every applicant
for a WECS permit should notify his/her electrical utility in advance of his/
her installation plans.
         c.   Every battery storage unit associated with a WECS shall be in
compliance with the national electrical code as currently adopted by the
Minnesota state building code division and shall be inspected by a qualified
electrical inspector.
         d.   The WECS, including the blades, shall be grounded and shielded to
protect against natural lightning strikes in conformance with the national
electrical code.
         e.   No WECS shall have affixed or attached lights, reflectors,
flashers or any other illumination, except for those devices required by the
federal aviation administration.
      5.   Structural Components:
         a.   The safety of structural components of every WECS and the
compatibility of the rotors with the towers of WECS shall be certified by a
state engineer. The safety of electrical components of every WECS shall be
certified by a state registered electrical engineer or individual with
technical training on WECS.
         b.   The safety of all modifications to any WECS shall be certified by
a state registered professional engineer. Certification of safety is required
before the building permit is granted for modifications made prior to
installation. Certification of the safety of modifications made after the WECS
is installed and the permit is granted is also required. Failure to have the
safety of modifications certified after the permit has been granted shall
result in revocation of the permit until certification has been obtained.
      6.   Signs Required: At least one (1) sign shall be posted at the base of
the WECS tower and shall contain the following information:
         a.   Notice of no trespassing; and
         b.   Warning of high voltage.
      7.   The visual appearance of WECS shall at a minimum:
         a.   Be a nonobtrusive color such as white, off white or gray; and
         b.   Not display advertising (including flags, streamers or decorative
items), except for identification of the turbine manufacturer, facility owner
and operator.
   G.   Setbacks:
      1.   Setbacks: The base of the tower of any WECS shall be set back from
any property line a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000').
      2.   Easements: No part of a WECS shall be located within or over
drainage, utility or other established easements.
      3.   Vehicular Areas: Efforts should be made when siting a WECS and any
related equipment to avoid locations that may be vulnerable to vehicular
accidents.
      4.   Wind Turbines: A wind turbine must not be within one thousand three
hundred twenty feet (1,320') from any conservation easements or public parks.
   H.   Nuisance Concerns:
      1.   Noise Control: Noise area classification (NAC1, NAC2, etc.),
established by the Minnesota pollution control agency shall be used to evaluate
and regulate noise from every WECS. The audible sound from a WECS will be
measured at the property boundary line. Every owner of a WECS that is found to
be in violation of Minnesota pollution control agency’s noise standards shall
cooperate in taking reasonable mitigating measures.
      2.   Electrical or Radio Frequency Interference: Efforts should be taken
by the proposed WECS owner to purchase, build or recondition an electrical
generator that will not create electrical or radio frequency interference to
reception of communication signals. Complaints about electrical or radio
frequency interference shall be directed to the federal communications
commission.
      3.   Communication Interference: Efforts should be made to site each WECS
to reduce the likelihood of blocking or reflecting television or other
communication signals. If signal interference occurs, both the WECS owner and
the individual receiving interference shall make reasonable efforts to resolve
the problem. If the problem cannot be eliminated or reduced to a reasonable
level, the WECS can be shut down.
      4.   It shall be a public nuisance if any of the following conditions
exist:
         a.   A WECS is not maintained in operational condition and poses a
potential safety hazard; or
         b.   A WECS is not maintained and operated in compliance with
applicable zoning provisions and state and federal laws; or
         c.   A WECS has not generated electricity for a period of twelve (12)
consecutive months and the wind energy facility owner has failed to remove the
WECS or make it operational within thirty (30) days after the City has given
written notice to remove the WECS.
      5.   The City has the right to abate a public nuisance under the
procedures set forth in City Code Section
4-1-6.
   I.   Other Regulations:
      1.   Mississippi River Corridor Critical Area Overlay District: No WECS
shall be located within the Mississippi River corridor critical area overlay
district.
      2.   Wind Access: Adequate wind access is essential to the safe and
efficient operation of a WECS, and the City encourages the use of private and
restrictive covenants to protect wind access.
      3.   Exemptions From Provisions: Any WECS that is by nature ornamental,
rather than functional, shall be exempt from this Section if total height is
less than twenty-five feet (25').
      4.   Inspections: Each WECS shall be inspected yearly by the building
official, to verify that the WECS is operational and that all requirements of
installation continue to be met.
      5.   Wind Turbines: All wind turbines shall comply with all applicable
state and federal regulatory standards, including the uniform building code as
adopted by the state of Minnesota; national electrical code as adopted by the
state of Minnesota; federal aviation administration (FAA) requirements; and
Minnesota pollution control agency (MPCA)/environmental protection agency (EPA)
regulations (hazardous waste, construction, stormwater, etc.).
§ 11-4-12: SATELLITE RECEIVE-ONLY ANTENNAS (SROA):
   A.   Satellite receive-only antennas (SROA) shall be permitted in all
districts, provided they are roof-mounted and subject to the standards of this
Section.
   B.   Every SROA mounted on a roof shall be subject to the normal height
limits of the zoning district in which it is located and shall comply with any
applicable requirements of the Building Code. The maximum diameter of a SROA
shall be no more than thirty-six inches (36").
      1.   For commercial and industrial districts, roof-mounted SROA’s shall
be screened in accordance with City Code Section
11-3-9.
   C.   Advertising shall not be placed on satellite antennas.
§ 11-4-13: SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS:
   A.   Purpose: Cottage Grove supports the use of solar energy systems in
appropriate zoning districts within the City. The development of solar energy
systems should be balanced with the protection of the public safety and the
existing natural resources in Cottage Grove. This Section provides for the
regulation of the construction and operation of solar energy systems in Cottage
Grove, subject to reasonable conditions to protect the environment, public
health, safety, and welfare. The provisions of this Section shall apply within
all zoning districts. In no case shall the provisions of this Section guarantee
rights to solar access.
   B.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases when used in this
Chapter shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this Section except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   COMMUNITY SOLAR GARDEN: A solar electric (photovoltaic) array that provides
retail electric power (or a financial proxy for retail power) to multiple
community members or businesses residing or located off site from the location
of the solar energy system, under the provisions of Minnesota Statutes Section
216B.1641.
   PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM: An active solar energy system that converts solar
energy directly into electricity.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR: A device, structure, or a part of a device or structure for
which the primary purpose is to capture sunlight and transform it into thermal,
mechanical, chemical, or electrical energy.
   SOLAR DAYLIGHTING: A device specifically designed to capture and redirect
the visible portion of the solar spectrum, while controlling the infrared
portion, for use in illuminating interior building spaces in lieu of artificial
lighting.
   SOLAR ENERGY: Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected in
the form of heat or light by a solar collector.
   SOLAR ENERGY DEVICE: A system or series of mechanisms designed primarily to
provide heating, cooling, electrical power, mechanical power, or solar
daylighting or to provide any combination of the foregoing by means of
collecting and transferring solar generated energy into such uses either by
active or passive means. Such systems may also have the capability of storing
such energy for future utilization.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: A device or structural design feature, a substantial
purpose of which is to provide daylight for interior lighting or provide for
the collection, storage, and distribution of solar energy for space heating or
cooling, electricity generation, or water heating.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, GRID INTERTIE: A photovoltaic solar energy system that
is connected to an electric circuit served by an electric utility company.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, GROUND MOUNTED: A freestanding solar energy system
mounted directly to the ground using a rack or pole rather than being mounted
on a building.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, OFF GRID: A photovoltaic solar energy system in which
the circuits energized by the solar energy system are not electrically
connected in any way to electric circuits that are served by an electric
utility company.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, ROOF MOUNTED: A solar energy system mounted onto the
roof of a building.
   SOLAR FARM: A commercial facility that converts sunlight into electricity,
whether by photovoltaic (PV), concentrating solar power devices (CSP), or other
conversion technology, for the principal purpose of wholesale sales of
generated electricity.
   SOLAR HEAT EXCHANGER: A component of a solar energy device that is used to
transfer heat from one (1) substance to another, either liquid or gas.
   SOLAR HOT AIR SYSTEM: An active solar energy system that includes a solar
collector to provide direct supplemental space heating by heating and
recirculating conditioned building air.
   SOLAR HOT WATER SYSTEM: A system that includes a solar collector and a heat
exchanger that heats or preheats water for building heating systems or other
hot water needs, including residential domestic hot water and hot water for
commercial processes.
   SOLAR MOUNTING DEVICES: Racking, frames, or other devices that allow the
mounting of a solar collector onto a roof surface or the ground.
   C.   General Standards. Solar energy systems in accordance with the
standards in this Section are allowed as a permitted accessory use in all
zoning districts.
      1.   Wall Mounted Solar Energy Systems: Wall mounted solar energy systems
must be flush with the wall and are prohibited facing a public street.
      2.   Roof-Mounted Solar Energy Systems:
         a.   Roof mounting devices and roof mounted solar energy systems shall
be flush mounted on pitched roofs, parallel to the roofline.
         b.   Roof-mounted solar energy systems mounted on a flat roof of a
building located in a nonresidential district may be mounted at an angle to the
roof to improve their efficiency; however, the highest point of a solar
collector shall not be more than five feet (5') from the surface of the roof,
measured in a straight line above the roof upon which the solar collector is
mounted.
         c.   Roof-mounted solar energy systems shall not extend beyond the
exterior perimeter of the building on which the system is mounted or built or
as required by Building Code.
         d.   Exterior piping for solar hot water systems is prohibited to
extend beyond the perimeter of the building.
         e.   Roof-mounted solar energy systems shall comply with the maximum
height requirements for the zoning district in which they are located.
         f.   Roof-mounted solar energy systems shall use colors that blend
with the color of the roof.
         g.   Reflection angles from collector surfaces shall be oriented away
from neighboring windows. Where necessary, screening may be required to address
glare.
      3.   Ground-Mounted Solar Energy Systems:
         a.   Ground mounted solar energy systems may only be erected on
properties consisting of five (5) or more acres, regardless of the zoning
district in which they are located.
         b.   Ground mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed fifteen feet
(15') in height when oriented at maximum tilt as measured from the ground to
the highest point of the solar collector or related appurtenance.
         c.   Ground-mounted solar energy systems shall comply with the
accessory structure setback standards for the applicable zoning district in
which they are located, except as otherwise required in this Section. Solar
energy systems shall not extend into the minimum front, rear, or side yard
setbacks when oriented at minimum or maximum design tilt.
         d.   Ground-mounted solar energy systems are prohibited in the front
yard of properties located within the MUSA. Ground mounted solar energy systems
are permitted in the front yard of properties located outside the MUSA, but
must comply with the minimum front yard setback as required in the zoning
district they are located in or such greater distance as may be required in
this Section.
      4.   Heliostats: Heliostats are prohibited in all zoning districts.
   D.   Additional Requirements:
      1.   Public Easements: Solar energy systems shall not encroach on public
drainage or utility easements.
      2.   Glare: Solar collectors shall be placed and arranged such that
reflected solar radiation or glare shall not be directed onto adjacent
buildings, properties, or roadways, and shall not emit unreasonable glare as
determined by City Staff.
      3.   Building Permit Required: All solar energy systems require a
building permit. A building permit application and plan submittal must comply
with the following requirements:
      4.   Applications for Solar Energy Systems: An application to the City
for a building permit under this Section shall contain information, including,
but not limited to, the following:
         a.   A building permit application.
         b.   A site plan of existing and proposed site conditions.
         c.   Description and depiction of solar energy system.
         d.   Number of solar collectors to be installed.
         e.   Location and spacing of solar collectors and mounting devices.
         f.   Applications for ground mounted solar energy systems shall
identify existing vegetation on the installation site (list vegetation type and
percent of coverage; i.e., grassland, plowed field, wooded areas, etc.), and
provide a maintenance plan for controlling vegetative growth on site upon
installation of the solar energy system.
         g.   A description of the method of connecting the solar collectors to
a building or substation and a signed copy of the interconnection agreement
with the local electric utility shall be included or a written explanation
outlining why an interconnection agreement is not required.
         h.   Planned location of underground or overhead electric lines
connecting the solar energy system to the substation or distribution line.
         i.   New electrical equipment other than at the existing building or
substation that is the connection point for the solar energy system.
         j.   Manufacturer’s specifications and recommended installation
methods for all major equipment, including solar collectors, mounting systems
and foundations for poles or racks. The City reserves the right to deny a
building permit for proposed solar energy systems deemed to have inadequate
certification.
         k.   Existing and proposed (if existing grade will be altered)
topography at two foot (2') contours.
         l.   A completed glare study that demonstrates that there will be no
unreasonable glare generated by the solar energy system and that any glare
generated shall not be directed onto adjacent buildings, properties, or
roadways or otherwise adversely impact neighboring properties as deemed
necessary by City Staff.
      5.   Grid Interties: For all grid intertie solar energy systems, all
power lines shall be placed underground within the interior of each parcel and
between the solar energy system and its connection to the electric grid. The
collection system may be placed overhead near substations or points of
interconnection to the electric grid. All grid intertie systems shall have an
agreement with the local utility prior to the issuance of a building permit. A
visible external disconnect must be provided if required by the utility. Off
grid systems are exempt from this requirement.
      6.   Special Exceptions: Solar collectors and solar energy systems with a
cumulative area of six (6) square feet or less are permitted in all zoning
districts and are exempt from the provisions of this Section. Examples of these
systems include outdoor accent lighting systems, power supply for traffic
control systems, powering a water pump for water gardens, telecommunication
systems, backup power systems during power outages, and similar solar energy
systems, as long as the system has a cumulative area of six (6) square feet or
less.
   E.   Community Solar Gardens and Solar Farms: Community solar gardens and
solar farms are permitted with an interim use permit subject to the following
requirements:
      1.   Ground Mounted Community Solar Gardens and Solar Farms: Ground
mounted community solar gardens and solar farms are permitted only in those
areas shown on Exhibit A in Resolution 985 on file in the City, and must comply
with the following requirements:
         a.   A minimum of five (5) acres of land is required. All ground
mounted solar energy systems and solar collection appurtenant equipment must
set back a minimum of three hundred feet (300') from all property boundary
lines.
         b.   Vegetative screening and buffering of the ground-mounted solar
energy systems will be required as part of the conditions of approval.
Screening may include walls or fences.
         c.   The electrical connection systems shall be placed underground
within the interior of each parcel and between the solar energy system and the
point where the interconnection to the electric grid is made.
      2.   Roof Mounted Community Solar Gardens and Solar Farms: Roof mounted
community solar gardens and solar farms are permitted on flat roofs on
principal structures in all zoning districts regardless of lot size, and must
comply with the following requirements:
         a.   All feeder lines and grid interties shall be placed underground
between the solar energy system and the point where the interconnection to the
electric grid is made. The collection system may be placed overhead near
substations or points of interconnection to the electric grid.
         b.   Roof-mounted systems shall comply with all building setbacks in
the applicable zoning district and shall not extend beyond the exterior
perimeter of the building on which the system is mounted or as required by
Building Code.
         c.   Roof-mounted solar energy systems must abut an existing electric
distribution system for purposes of making the interconnection to the electric
grid.
         d.   Solar energy systems are allowed on flat roofs on accessory
structures only in non-residential zoning districts.
         e.   Solar collectors mounted on flat roofs on principal and accessory
structures in non-residential zoning districts may be mounted at an angle, but
no portion of the solar collector may extend more than five feet (5') above the
surface of the flat roof.
   F.   Decommissioning: A decommissioning plan shall be submitted with all
applications for community solar gardens or solar farm systems.
      1.   Decommissioning plans shall outline the anticipated means and cost
of removing the solar energy system at the end of its serviceable life or upon
the discontinuation of its use. The cost estimates shall be made by a competent
party, such as professional engineer, a contractor capable of decommissioning
the system, or a person with suitable expertise or experience with
decommissioning. The plan shall also identify the financial resources that will
be available to pay for the decommissioning and removal of the system. Owners
of solar energy systems may rely on manufacturer’s data to submit estimates.
      2.   Decommissioning of the system must occur within ninety (90) days
from either of the following:
         a.   The end of the system’s service life; or
         b.   The system becomes a discontinued use.
      3.   A system shall be considered a discontinued use after one (1) year
without energy production, unless a plan is developed during the year the
system is discontinued and submitted to the Zoning Administrator outlining the
steps and schedule for returning the system back into service.
      4.   The City may, at its discretion, require the owner and/or operator
of the solar energy system to provide financial security in the form of a cash
escrow, bond, or irrevocable letter of credit in an amount equal to one hundred
twenty-five percent (125%) of a cost estimate for decommissioning the system.
      5.   The owner of the property where a community solar garden or solar
farm is located must notify the City in writing when feeder lines and/or grid
interties are disconnected from the local utility transmission line.
   G.   Abandonment: If a solar energy system remains nonfunctional or
inoperative for a continuous period of one (1) year, the system shall be deemed
to be abandoned and shall constitute a public nuisance. The owner shall remove
the abandoned system at its expense after a demolition permit has been
obtained. Removal shall include removal of the entire solar energy systems,
including all solar collectors, mounting structures, and related components.
§ 11-4-14: ANTENNAS AND TOWERS:
   A.   Purpose. In order to accommodate the communication needs of residents
and business while protecting the public health, safety and general welfare of
the community, the Council finds that these regulations are necessary in order
to:
      1.   Facilitate the provision of wireless telecommunication services to
the residents and businesses of the City;
      2.   Minimize adverse visual effects of towers through careful design and
siting standards;
      3.   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower failure
through structural standards and setback requirements; and
      4.   Maximize the use of existing and approved towers and buildings to
accommodate new wireless telecommunication antennas in order to reduce the
number of towers needed to serve the community.
   B.   Area specific requirements for towers and antennas.
      1.   Towers outside the right-of-way in residential zoning districts.
Towers shall be allowed only in the following residentially zoned areas:
         a.   Towers supporting amateur radio antennas and conforming to all
applicable provisions of this code shall be allowed only in the rear yard of
residentially zoned parcels.
         b.   Antennas conforming to all applicable provisions of this code
shall be allowed via administrative conditional use permits in the following
locations:
            (1)   Water towers.
            (2)   On existing telecommunication monopoles or towers.
            (3)   Roofs of buildings over three (3) stories.
            (4)   Sides of buildings over two (2) stories.
            (5)   Existing lighting and utility structures within commercially
zoned private property.
            (6)   Bell tower, steeple or similar structure as long as the
antenna support structure is fully camouflaged.
            (7)   Antennas mounted on existing public utility owned lighting
structures less than thirty feet (30') above grade and located in and/or
adjacent to residentially zoned property and/or rights-of-way.
      2.   New towers and monopoles conforming to all applicable provisions of
this code shall be allowed as a Conditional Use at the following locations:
         a.   Properties over twenty (20) acres in size and located outside of
the MUSA.
         b.   Agriculturally and industrial zoned parcels over twenty (20)
acres inside of the MUSA.
         c.   Public parks and open spaces above ten (10) acres in size.
         d.   Government, and public utility structures.
         e.   Antennas mounted to public utility owned lighting structures and/
or towers in excess of thirty feet (30') in height above grade and located in
and/or adjacent to residentially zoned property and/or rights-of-way.
   C.   Co-location of personal wireless communication service equipment
requirements: All commercial wireless telecommunication towers erected,
constructed or located within the City shall comply with the following
requirements.
      1.   A proposal for a new commercial wireless telecommunication service
tower shall not be approved unless the approving body finds that the
telecommunications equipment planned for the proposed tower cannot be
accommodated on an existing or approved tower or building within a one-mile
search radius of the proposed tower due to one (1) or more of the following
reasons:
         a.   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of the
existing or approved tower or building, as documented by a qualified and
licensed professional engineer, and the existing or approved tower cannot be
reinforced, modified or replaced to accommodate planned or equivalent equipment
at a reasonable cost;
         b.   The planned equipment would cause interference materially
impacting the usability of other existing or planned equipment at the tower or
building as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer and
the interference cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost;
         c.   Existing or approved towers and buildings within the search
radius cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height necessary to
function reasonably as documented by a qualified and licensed professional
engineer; and/or other unforeseen reasons that make it infeasible to locate the
planned telecommunications equipment upon an existing or approved tower or
building.
      2.   Any proposed commercial wireless telecommunication service tower
shall be designed, structurally, electrically, and in all respects, to
accommodate both the applicant’s antennas and comparable antennas for at least
two (2) additional users if the tower is one hundred twenty feet (120') in
height or for at least one (1) additional user if the tower is seventy-five
feet (75') in height. Towers must be designed to allow for future rearrangement
of antennas upon the tower and to accept antennas mounted at varying heights.
   D.   Tower setbacks.
      1.   Towers shall be setback the height of the structure plus twenty-five
feet (25') from the nearest building or property line.
      2.   A tower’s setback may be reduced or its location in relation to a
public street varied, at the sole discretion of the approving body, to allow
the integration of a tower into an existing or proposed structure such as a
church steeple, light standard, power line support device or similar structure.
   E.   Tower height.
      1.   Towers located outside of the MUSA may have a maximum height of one
hundred twenty feet (120').
      2.   Towers inside the MUSA the maximum height is seventy-five feet
(75').
   F.   Application and submittal requirements.
      1.   Submittal of a complete site and building plan review application,
accompanied by a registered land survey, complete site plan, schematic
drawings, photographic perspectives, and signed by a registered architect,
civil engineer or other appropriate design professional.
      2.   A scaled drawing showing the size, location, construction materials,
landscaping and screening plan.
      3.   A report prepared by a qualified and licensed professional engineer
indicating the existing structure is suitable to accept the antenna, and the
proposed method of affixing the antenna to the structure.
      4.   Submittal of an analysis prepared by a radio or electrical engineer
demonstrating that the proposed location of the antennas is necessary to meet
the coverage and capacity needs of the applicant’s system.
      5.   Documents stating what steps the applicant will take to avoid
interference with established public safety telecommunications.
      6.   Submittal of any necessary easements and easement exhibits, which
have been prepared by an attorney knowledgeable in the area of real estate and
which are subject to the City Attorney’s approval.
      7.   Any application for a new tower and/or monopole shall not be
approved unless it can be documented by the applicant that the proposed
equipment cannot be accommodated on an existing or approved tower or commercial
building within one-half (1/2) mile radius, transcending municipal borders, of
the proposed tower due to one (1) or more of the following reasons:
         a.   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of the
existing or approved tower or commercial building.
         b.   The planned equipment would cause interference with other
existing or planned equipment at the tower or building.
         c.   Existing or approved towers and commercial buildings within one-
half (1/2) mile radius cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height
necessary to reasonably function.
   G.   Tower and antenna design requirements. Proposed or modified towers and
antennas shall meet the following design requirements.
      1.   Towers and antennas shall be designed to blend into the surrounding
environment through the use of color and camouflaging architectural treatment,
except in instances where the color is dictated by federal or state authorities
such as the Federal Aviation Administration. The use of color or design
features to attract attention to the tower is prohibited.
      2.   Commercial wireless telecommunication service towers shall be of a
monopole design unless the approving body determines that an alternative design
would better blend into the surrounding environment.
      3.   Antennas, towers, monopoles located in rights-of-way are exempt from
this Section, except otherwise specifically provided by this chapter.
      4.   No part of any antenna, tower or monopole shall be constructed,
located, or maintained at any time, permanently or temporarily, in or upon any
required tower and monopole setback area.
      5.   Antennas, towers and monopoles located outside the right-of-way
shall not be erected in any zoning district in violation of the following
restrictions: Towers and monopoles shall be constructed of, or treated with,
corrosive-resistant material.
      6.   Tower and monopole locations should provide the maximum amount of
screening possible for off-site views of the facility.
      7.   Existing on-site vegetation shall be preserved to the maximum extent
practical.
      8.   The installation location shall be designed to be compatible with
the underlying site plan.
      9.   The tower and/or monopoles shall be a light blue, gray or other
color that is demonstrated to minimize visibility. Antennas mounted to tower
and/or monopole shall be painted to match. No advertising or identification
visible off-site shall be placed on the tower or antennas.
      10.   Antennas or similar apparatuses mounted upon the tower shall be
subject to state and federal regulations pertaining to non-ionizing radiation
and other health hazards related to such facilities. If new, more restrictive
standards are adopted, the antennas shall be made to comply or continued
operations may be restricted by the City Council. The cost of verification of
compliance shall be borne by the owner and operator of said equipment.
      11.   To prevent unauthorized entry, towers and monopole shall have
secure accesses.
      12.   Antennas located on the roof of an existing structure shall not
extend more than fifteen feet (15') above the principal structure to which they
are mounted. All roof mounted antennas and associated equipment shall be hidden
from view utilizing materials found on the building.
      13.   Any façade mounted antennas shall use designs and mounts that
minimize visual impact. Antennas and mounts shall be painted to match the
existing structure. All wires and associated equipment shall be hidden from
view.
      14.   Antennas mounted on light poles and/or utility structures are
subject to the following additional standards:
         a.   Equipment shall not extend more than three feet (3') above the
top of the light pole or utility structure.
         b.   Any replacement light pole or utility structure shall not exceed
the height of the existing structure, including antennas or associated
equipment, and shall not exceed the diameter of the existing pole or structure
by more than fifty percent (50%).
         c.   Any replacement light pole or utility structures shall match the
existing and surrounding structures in materials and color.
         d.   Equipment shall use designs and mounts that minimize visual
impact.
         e.   All equipment shall be aesthetically compatible with the
structure upon which the proposed antenna is to be mounted and with the
surrounding use.
         f.   Any equipment associated with the antennas and towers located at
grade in or adjacent to the residentially zoned rights-of-way is prohibited.
   H.   At grade accessory structures and equipment associated with antennas,
towers and monopoles shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   At grade accessory structures and equipment shall be placed below
grade unless not technically feasible;
      2.   Accessory structures and equipment shall be designed to be
architecturally compatible with principal structures on the site;
      3.   At grade accessory structures and equipment shall be screened by
landscaping or other screening compatible with the surrounding environment if
deemed necessary by the Community Development Director or designee.
   I.   Lights and other attachments. No antenna or tower shall have affixed or
attached to it in any way except during time of repair or installation, any
lights, reflectors, flashers, daytime strobes or steady nighttime red lights or
other illuminating devices, except as required by the Federal Aviation Agency
or the Federal Communications Commission or the City, nor shall any tower have
constructed thereon, or attached thereto, in any way, any platform, catwalk,
crow’s nest, or like structure, except during periods of construction or
repair.
   J.   Removal of abandoned or damaged antennas, towers and monopoles. Any
antenna, tower, and/or monopole which is not used for six (6) months shall be
deemed abandoned and shall be removed unless a time extension is approved by
the Community Development Director. In the event that a tower is not removed
within six (6) months of cessation of operations at a site, the tower and
associated facilities may be removed by the City and the costs of removal
assessed against the property. (amd. Ord. 1081, 5-1-2024)
§ 11-4-15: FARMING OPERATIONS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   Agriculture is a permitted use in all residential districts, subject to the
following:
   A.   Farm Animals:
      1.   Parcels less than forty (40) but more than five (5) acres: The
keeping of any farm animal on parcels of less than forty (40) but more than
five (5) acres in size shall be permitted, subject to the following conditions:
         a.   The property must contain at least one and one-half (1 ½) acres
of land per animal unit as defined by Minnesota Rules Part 7020.0300.
         b.   All buildings intended to house animals shall be set back at
least sixty feet (60') from all property lines and at least three hundred feet
(300') from a dwelling other than the dwelling on the property in question.
         c.   All pens, yards or other confinement areas, excluding pastures,
where animals are kept shall be set back at least sixty feet (60') from all
property lines.
         d.   The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency does not require that a
feedlot permit be issued.
      2.   Parcels larger than forty (40) acres: The keeping of farm animals on
parcels larger than forty (40) acres in size is permitted, subject to the
following conditions:
         a.   All buildings intended to house animals shall be set back at
least sixty feet (60') from all property lines and at least three hundred feet
(300') from a dwelling other than the dwelling on the property in question.
      b.   All pens, yards or other confinement areas, excluding pastures,
where animals are kept shall be set back at least sixty feet (60') from all
property lines.
         c.   The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency does not require that a
feedlot permit be issued.
§ 11-4-16: OUTDOOR SEATING OR DINING:
   All outdoor seating or dining shall comply with the following:
   A.   The seating area shall not be located within a required setback.
   B.   The seating area shall not interfere with circulation in any required
parking, loading, maneuvering or pedestrian area.
   C.   The seating area shall be located in a controlled or cordoned area
acceptable to the City with at least one (1) opening to an acceptable
pedestrian walk.
   D.   The seating area shall not be permitted within one hundred fifty feet
(150') of any residential use or district as measured at the property line and
shall be separated from residential use or district by the principal structure
or other method of screening acceptable to the City. The minimum distance from
a residential use or district may be reduced should the City determine the
applicant has added sufficient elements to reduce the impact of this use.
   E.   No public address system or external music, live or recorded shall be
audible from a nonbusiness or nonindustrial use or district.
   F.   The seating area shall have an improved and maintained surface.
   G.   The seating shall be located so as not to compromise safety. Seating
shall not obstruct the entrance or any required exits or be located on
landscaping or parking areas. If located on private sidewalks or walkways, it
shall be located so as to leave a minimum of a four (4) foot wide passage for
pedestrians. Applicable building and fire codes for ingress and egress shall be
met.
   H.   Additional parking for thirty (30) outdoor seats or less is not
required. Any additional seating over thirty (30) seats shall provide required
parking based on one (1) space per four (4) seats.
   I.   The outdoor seating area shall be subordinate to the principal use and
shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the square footage of the principal
use building space. An outdoor seating area exceeding thirty percent (30%)
requires a conditional use permit.
   J.   The outdoor seating area shall be defined with the use of landscaping
and/or permanent attractive fencing.
§ 11-4-17: TEMPORARY ACCESSORY OUTDOOR SALES:
   Outside merchandise display and storage or equipment may be displayed and
offered for sale, rental or lease outside the building providing that:
   A.   The merchandise or equipment are adjacent to and project no farther
than five feet (5') from the primary building.
   B.   Where sidewalks are present, a minimum access width of four feet (4')
must be provided.
   C.   Outside display area is limited to a maximum of one hundred fifty (150)
square feet of area and shall not extend beyond the building frontage.
   D.   Outside display to be maintained in an orderly and attractive manner
that does not detract from the image of the community or adjacent businesses.
   E.   Outside display should be a general representation of the products sold
or rented on site, not a storage area for inventory on pallets.
§ 11-4-18: CANNABIS USES AND LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE USES:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to implement the provisions of
Minnesota Statutes Chapter 342 to allow cannabis and lower-potency hemp edible
uses within the city. The Municipal Planning Act provides specific authority
for cities to protect and promote the public health, safety, morals and welfare
of residents through zoning ordinances, including the regulations surrounding
the uses of buildings, structures and land. Cities are further authorized to
establish standards and procedures regulating such uses. The purpose and intent
of this chapter is to allow the incorporation of cannabis and lower-potency
hemp edible uses into the city while protecting existing land uses and
properties from any detrimental impacts.
   B.   In addition to the other requirements and performance standards for
each zoning district in which a cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible use is
located, cannabis and lower-potency hemp edible uses must comply with the
performance standards in this chapter.
   C.   Definitions: Unless otherwise noted in this section, words, terms, and
phrases found in the definitions of Minnesota Statutes Section 342.01, or as
amended, apply, unless otherwise noted or except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning. In addition, the following definitions apply:
      CANNABIS BUSINESS: Any of the following businesses:
         a.   Cannabis microbusiness;
         b.   Cannabis mezzobusiness;
         c.   Cannabis cultivator;
         d.   Cannabis manufacturer;
         e.   Cannabis retailer;
         f.   Cannabis wholesaler;
         g.   Cannabis transporter;
         h.   Cannabis testing facility;
         i.   Cannabis event organizer;
         j.   Cannabis delivery service;
         k.   Lower-potency hemp edible manufacturing;
         l.   Lower-potency hemp edible retailer; or
         m.   Medical cannabis combination business.
      CANNABIS USE or CANNABIS INDUSTRY: Every item, product, person, process,
action, business, or other thing related to cannabis flower and cannabis
products.
      DAY CARE: A location licensed with the Minnesota Department of Human
Services to provide the care of a child outside the child's own home for gain
or otherwise, on a regular basis, for any part of a 24-hour day.
      OFFICE OF CANNABIS MANAGEMENT or OCM: Minnesota Office of Cannabis
Management.
      RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY: A 24-hour-a-day program under the
treatment supervision of a mental health professional, in a community
residential setting other than an acute care hospital or regional treatment
center inpatient unit, that must be licensed as a residential treatment program
for adults with mental illness under chapter 245I, Minnesota Rules, parts
9520.0500 to 9520.0670, or other rules adopted by the commissioner.
      SCHOOL: Public school as defined in Minnesota Statutes Section 120A.05 or
nonpublic school that meets the reporting requirements under Minnesota Statutes
Section 120A.24.
      STATE LICENSE: An approved license issued by the Minnesota Office of
Cannabis Management to a cannabis retail business.
   D.   Outdoor Cultivation: Any cannabis use that includes outdoor cultivation
must comply with the following:
      1.   A minimum of forty (40) contiguous acres is required.
      2.   The crops must be setback a minimum of three hundred feet (300')
from the property lines.
      3.   There must be fencing of six feet (6') around the perimeter and a
landscaped or screened buffer is required to be placed outside of the fence but
within the setback area, which may consist of a berm, trees, or combination
thereof.
      4.   The crops cannot be visible from any public right of way.
      5.   No retail sales shall be allowed at the same location as any
business with an outdoor cultivation business license.
   E.   Indoor Cultivation: Any cannabis or lower-potency hemp cultivation that
involves indoor cultivation in an enclosed building (and if allowed in the
zoning district, indoor cultivation may take place in greenhouses and hoop
houses), must comply with the following:
      1.   A minimum of twenty (20) contiguous acres is required if located in
the I-1 or I-2 zoning districts. A minimum of forty (40) contiguous acres is
required if located in the AG-1 or AG-2 zoning districts.
      2.   The buildings must be setback a minimum of three hundred feet (300')
from the property lines.
      3.   There must be a landscaped or screened buffer within the setback
area, which may consist of a berm, trees, or combination thereof.
      4.   If greenhouses or hoop houses are allowed in the zoning district,
interior lighting and ventilation conditions may be imposed as part of the
conditional use permit.
   F.   Manufacturing, Production, Testing Or Processing Of Cannabis Wholesale
(if products stored on-site), Warehousing: Must comply with the following
performance standards:
      1.   No exterior storage is allowed, including storage of products in
semis or trailers that are parked outside of an enclosed building.
      2.   All mechanical, odor suppression equipment and trash enclosures must
comply with City Code Sections
11-3-8 and
11-3-9.
   G.   Performance Standards:
      1.   Hours of operation for retail sales of cannabis or lower-potency
hemp edible products are permitted from 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m., seven (7)
days a week. Retail sales of lower-potency beverages at on-sale intoxicating
liquor establishments or off-sale exclusive liquor stores with a valid city
registration and state license are permitted during the hours of operation
associated with the intoxicating liquor establishment.
      2.   On-sale intoxicating liquor establishments and off-sale exclusive
liquor stores with a current lower-potency hemp edible city registration and a
state license may sell lower-potency hemp edible beverages but no other lower-
potency hemp edible products.
      3.   No cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible use is allowed as part of
an Adult Use Establishment, as defined in City Code Section
3-14-2.
      4.   No retail sales are allowed in the Agricultural or Industrial zoning
districts.
      5.   No on-site consumption is allowed in the Agricultural or Industrial
zoning districts.
      6.   Cannabis and lower-potency hemp edible uses shall not violate
federal laws, state laws or any provisions of City Code. Cannabis and lower-
potency hemp edible uses shall not be a public nuisance or violate Chapter 4,
Section 8 regarding odors. The city may impose odor suppression or odor
mitigation conditions as part of the conditional use permit.
      7.   Distance Restrictions: Distances from a cannabis use or lower-
potency hemp edible use are measured from the storefront of a cannabis or
lower-potency hemp edible retail use to the property line of all other cannabis
or lower-potency hemp edible uses.
         a.   There must be at least one thousand feet (1,000') between each
cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible use.
         b.   The location of all cannabis uses must comply with the following:
            (1)   More than one thousand feet (1,000') from a school as
measured from property line of the school to the cannabis business;
            (2)   More than five hundred feet (500') from a day care that is in
the B1, B2, B3, PB, or MU zoning district as measured from property line of the
day care to the cannabis business;
            (3)   More than five hundred feet (500') from a residential
treatment facility, as measured from the property line of the facility to the
cannabis business; and
            (4)   More than five hundred feet (500') from an attraction within
a public park that is regularly used by minors, such as, but not limited to a
playground, athletic field, athletic court, picnic area or permanent restrooms,
pavilion or park building, disc golf features, as measured from the location of
the public park attraction to cannabis business.
         c.   Outdoor and indoor cultivation must be more than one thousand
feet (1,000') from a residential zoning district or residential use as measured
from the cannabis use property line to the property line of the nearest
residential zoning district or residential use.
         d.   Manufacturing, production, testing, or processing of cannabis,
wholesale (if products stored on-site) or warehousing must be setback a minimum
of one thousand feet (1,000') from a residential zoning district or residential
use as measured from the cannabis use property line to the property line of the
nearest residential zoning district or residential use.
         e.   Exemptions To Distance Restrictions:
            (1)   Lower-potency hemp edible retail uses must comply with City
Code
11-4-18.G.7.a, however, they are exempt from the distance restrictions in City
Code
11-4-18.G.7.b.
            (2)   On-sale intoxicating liquor establishments and off-sale
exclusive liquor stores that sell lower-potency beverages and have a valid
lower-potency hemp edible city registration and a state license are exempt from
the distance restrictions in City Code Section
11-4-18.G.7.a. and G.7.b. and their use does not count against other cannabis
and lower-potency hemp edible uses for purposes of the distance restrictions
from another cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible business in City Code
11-4-18.G.7.a.
      8.   Signs must comply with the standards in City Code Title 12 for the
relevant zoning district in which the use is located, except for the following:
         a.   No cannabis business shall have more than two (2) signs;
         b.   Blinking, moving, and flashing signs that are visible from the
exterior of the building are prohibited;
         c.   No lower-potency hemp edible use shall advertise the lower-
potency hemp edible products on more than one (1) exterior sign; and
         d.   No interior sign shall be visible from the exterior of the
building.
      9.   Cannabis uses must meet the minimum parking requirements for each
type of use as stated in City Code
11-3-4, for example, retail must meet the retail requirements, manufacturing
must meet the manufacturing parking requirements. If there is a combination of
cannabis uses at the same location, the use that requires the largest number of
spaces must be met.
      10.   A security plan must be submitted to and approved by the Director
of Public Safety to address security issues in order to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare. The security plan must include, but is not limited
to addressing issues surrounding parking, traffic, securing of monetary
transactions, building security and alarm systems both internal and external,
screening, lighting, window and door placement, landscaping, age verification
devices, and hours of operation.
(Ord. 1088, 12-4-2024)
CHAPTER 5: ADEQUATE PUBLIC FACILITIES
Section
11-5-1: Purpose; Facts
11-5-2: Application of Provisions
11-5-3: Administration
11-5-4: Minimum Needs Assessment
11-5-5: Standards for Determination of Adequate Public Facilities
11-5-6: Priority List
11-5-7: Annual Development Report
11-5-8: Provisions are Supplemental
§ 11-5-1: PURPOSE; FACTS:
   A.   The purpose of this Chapter is to stage the zoning, subdivision and
development of land within the City’s residential, commercial and industrial
areas so that sewer and transportation capacity demands caused by new
development are consistent with the Comprehensive Plan, do not have substantial
impacts on metropolitan, County and City sewer and transportation facilities
and plans, and the adequate facility and infrastructure capacity is available
concurrently with demands generated by new development. In particular, this
Chapter is intended to control the generation of peak period traffic on Highway
61/10 and the use of the Cottage Grove sewage treatment plant by imposing
staged limits on the use of existing, planned and programmed capacity.
   B.   The Cottage Grove wastewater treatment plant operated by the
Metropolitan Council Environmental Services Division provides service to only
Cottage Grove. The plant has a capacity to treat 2.54 million gallons per day.
The plant is not projected to have an expansion for additional capacity prior
to 2003.
   C.   The City has three hundred three (303) acres of residential, fifty-six
(56) acres of commercial and five hundred thirty (530) acres of industrial land
within the Metropolitan Urban Service Area (MUSA) which is not developed. Based
on a market study, the industrial land is projected to develop at an average
rate of three percent (3%) per year. Based on the development history of
residential land use, the City does not have adequate land within the MUSA to
accommodate additional residential growth.
   D.   In order to accommodate development of land within the MUSA and obtain
a reasonable amount of additional residential land, to be added to the MUSA
without exceeding the current capacity of the plant, the City is enacting an
ordinance to allow development, but only if there is adequate sewer plant
capacity to serve new development.
§ 11-5-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to land that is within the MUSA
that has not received approval for development before February 21, 1996. Any
development approved after February 21, 1996, must comply with the terms of
this Chapter.
§ 11-5-3: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   All applications, maps and documents relative to a new development
shall be submitted to the Community Development Director. All new developments
shall be reviewed and processed in accordance with applicable procedures
established elsewhere in this Code.
   B.   The Planning Commission and Council may not approve a new development
unless: 1) the public facilities to serve the new development exist or, in the
case of transportation facilities, are planned for construction, or 2) the
developer has executed an agreement to construct the necessary improvements to
enable compliance with this Chapter. Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent the
City from approving a portion of a new development if the approved portion
complies with the provisions of this Chapter.
§ 11-5-4: MINIMUM NEEDS ASSESSMENT:
   A.   Transportation Impact Analysis:
   1.   A traffic impact analysis shall be prepared and submitted to City Staff
for each new development. An environmental assessment worksheet may, if it
contains the following, be substituted for a traffic impact analysis. A traffic
impact analysis must contain the following information:
         a.   Introduction and description of existing conditions and
identification of the traffic study area. This should include maps of the
existing roads and highways including intersections that will be impacted by
vehicular traffic generated by the new development.
         b.   Analysis of existing traffic conditions within the traffic study
area.
         c.   Analysis of future traffic conditions within the study area
without the proposed development. Use various measures as appropriate
(intersection capacity analysis; level of service; volume/capacity ratio).
         d.   Description of proposed site traffic characteristics within the
traffic study area which shall include the number of A.M. and P.M. peak period
trips that will be generated by the new development.
         e.   An analysis of future traffic conditions with proposed
development within the traffic study area. This includes an assignment of the
new trips to the roadway network (trips added to TH 61/10 must be shown).
      2.   A determination of the level of service resulting from the
additional trips must be made. If the level of service causes the future
traffic conditions outside of the proposed development to fall below a grade
“D” within the traffic impact analysis, the improvements needed to mitigate the
additional traffic must be described and proposed. These improvements may
include both capacity improvements (e.g., signalization, turn lanes, new roads)
and traffic demand management strategies (e.g., park and ride, flexible work
hours, telecommuting). How the improvements will be phased along with the
staging of development and a schedule and commitment to both capital
improvements and TDM strategies must be shown.
      3.   A development that is projected to generate peak period trips (PPT)
exceeding the “baseline peak period trip contribution (BPPTC)”, may not be
approved without implementation of traffic mitigation measures that reduce the
PPT to or below the BPPTC.
   B.   Sewer Impact Analysis: A sewer impact analysis shall be prepared and
submitted to the Community Development Director for each new development. A
sewer impact analysis shall contain information necessary to determine whether
existing public facilities which will be utilized by the new development will
be adequate to serve the demand generated by the new development. An
environmental assessment worksheet may, if it contains the following, be
substituted for a sewer impact analysis. A sewer impact analysis shall contain
the following: Analysis of the amount (average daily) of sewage flow to be
generated from the new development within the study area and a breakdown by
proposed use.
§ 11-5-5: STANDARDS FOR DETERMINATION OF ADEQUATE PUBLIC FACILITIES:
   A.   Roads:
      1.   It shall be determined that there are adequate public facilities to
serve a new development if, after taking into account traffic generated by all
existing and approved new development which will utilize the impacted roads,
one (1) of the following conditions will be satisfied:
         a.   Existing City, County, State or regional roads and intersections
which will be impacted will be adequate to accommodate the traffic that will be
generated by the new development; or
         b.   Any road or intersection construction necessary to accommodate
the additional traffic above BPPTC from the new development is planned for
construction; or
         c.   The new development will not cause the vehicular trip generation
from the City to exceed the baseline peak period trip contribution; or
         d.   That with offsetting improvements, or the implementation of
transportation demand management strategies, the new development will not cause
the vehicular trip generation from the City to exceed the baseline peak period
trip contribution.
      2.   In determining compliance with the above factors, the following
shall be considered, and related requirements may be imposed:
         a.   Whether the developer agrees to construct necessary roads and
road and intersection improvements, implement a traffic management plan or
undertake other traffic mitigation measures that offset impacts from the new
development.
         b.   The availability and likely use of existing or programmed public
bus, rail, or other forms of mass transportation to serve the new development.
         c.   Other plans, programs or measures that would offset impacts from
the new development.
   B.   Sewers:
      1.   Generally: It shall be determined that there are adequate public
facilities to serve a new development if, after taking into account sewerage
generated by all existing and approved new development which will impact the
sewage treatment plant, the following conditions will be satisfied:
         a.   The expected annual average and maximum daily loadings from the
new development, together with existing flows and flows from other approved
development, will not exceed the maximum allocated sewer capacity.
         b.   The provisions of this subsection may not be amended without
approval of the Metropolitan Council.
      2.   Sewers in Industrial Park MUSA: High-capacity sanitary sewer
discharge users shall be limited to fifty (50) acres within the industrial park
MUSA. The fifty (50) acres may “float” within in the industrial park MUSA and
are not assigned to a particular fifty (50) acres. Once fifty (50) acres of
land within the industrial park MUSA has developed with high-capacity sewer
discharge users, any land remaining undeveloped within the industrial park MUSA
must develop only with low capacity sanitary sewer discharge users.
§ 11-5-6: PRIORITY LIST:
   The City shall create and maintain a priority list which shall be a waiting
list arranged by date of completion of the review for approved new developments
which are prevented from developing due to the lack of adequate public facility
capacity. Removal from priority list shall occur and construction of the new
development may commence when condition(s) preventing construction of the new
development have been satisfied, including the execution of necessary public
facility improvement agreements.
§ 11-5-7: ANNUAL DEVELOPMENT REPORT:
   A.   The Community Development Department shall prepare an annual
development report describing new development and facility capacity for
submission to the Planning Commission, City Council and Metropolitan Council by
January 31 for each previous year. The annual development report shall describe
the development which has occurred in the preceding year. The report shall
include, but not be limited to, the following information:
      1.   Number of building permits approved for new residential dwelling
units by type.
      2.   Number of building permits approved for nonresidential uses by type
and total floor area.
      3.   Estimated increase in population, household and employment.
      4.   Presentation of the same information for the previous five (5)
years.
   B.   The annual report shall include an analysis of the current and future
utilization and capacity of specific public facilities and services. For
sewers, the report shall include the following:
      1.   Average sewage generation (in gallons per day and RECs) for each
type of dwelling unit and commercial/industrial use;
      2.   Inventory/tabulation of existing flows, including all allocations to
the system and total system capacity;
      3.   Sewage generation projection for the system including the basis for
their computation; and
      4.   A list of capital projects contained in the capital improvements
program for the expansion of sewage facilities and the construction of
improvements to reduce sewage flow including project status.
   C.   The report shall contain the following information with regard to
transportation:
      1.   Peak period trip generation on Highway 61/10 attributable to new
development during the past year;
      2.   A list of the existing average daily traffic (ADT) and level of
service on major roadways within and which service the City; and
      3.   A list of capital improvement projects contained in the City’s
capital improvements program for expanded transportation services and capital
improvement projects contained in the County and State transportation
improvement programs which will facilitate transportation in the City.
   D.   The City shall submit the annual development report to the Metropolitan
Council and shall meet with the Metropolitan Council staff to review and, as
appropriate, supplement and/or modify the information contained in the report
within one (1) month following submission.
   E.   Based on development, capacity improvements planned for construction,
and traffic demand strategies, the Metropolitan Council will evaluate the base
peak period trips on an annual basis. After completing the evaluation, the
Metropolitan Council will determine if any revision to the BPPTC figures should
be made.
§ 11-5-8: PROVISIONS ARE SUPPLEMENTAL:
   The provisions of this Chapter are supplementary to other laws, rules,
regulations and ordinances applicable to development within the City.
Compliance with the provisions in this Chapter shall not release an applicant
from complying with the requirements of other Federal, State, County and City
laws, rules, regulations and ordinances applicable to the zoning, subdivision,
development and use of land within the City.
CHAPTER 6: AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS
Section
11-6-1: AG-1 Agricultural Preservation District
11-6-2: AG-2 Agricultural District
§ 11-6-1: AG-1 AGRICULTURAL PRESERVATION DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: This District is intended to preserve areas of high-quality
soils or highly productive agricultural capability to maintain and enhance the
use of the land for long-term or permanent agricultural use and preserve the
rural character of outlying areas of the City and agriculturally related uses
in areas of the City not served by public sewer.
   B.   Permitted Uses:
      1.   The following are permitted uses in the AG-1 District:
         a.   Commercial agriculture and horticulture.
         b.   Commercial greenhouses.
         c.   Farm buildings and pole barns.
         d.   Farm drainage and irrigation systems.
         e.   Forestry.
         f.   Small wireless facilities located in the public right of way.
         g.   One single-family detached dwelling per each forty (40) acres.
Any parcel of land that has thirty-seven and one-half (37 ½) acres or more,
after deducting road right of way, complies with the forty (40) acre
requirement.
      2.   Minimum lot area: Forty (40) acres provided that a parcel of more
than five (5) acres and less than ten (10) acres may be created as a minor
subdivision as long as the following criteria is met:
         a.   The initial parcel is forty (40) acres or more in size and must
be a parcel of record as of the date of this Chapter.
         b.   Only one (1) minor subdivision from the initial parcel is allowed
until the property receives full public utilities.
         c.   Two hundred feet (200') of street frontage is required for each
parcel.
         d.   Lots created solely for municipal utility facilities shall not be
subject to minimum lot width, depth and area requirements.
         e.   Both lots must comply with the minimum setback requirements.
      3.   Setback requirements:
 
Front yard 100 feet
Side yard  25 feet
Rear yard  50 feet
 
      4.   Location of Driveways: The lot shall be located in such a manner
that no driveways may be located within three hundred feet (300') of an
intersection of a minor arterial with another road or within one hundred fifty
feet (150') of an intersection of two (2) collector streets.
   C.   Accessory Uses: Uses and structures which are customarily accessory and
clearly subordinate to permitted uses and structures shall be permitted,
including:
      1.   Accessory structures incidental to residential uses as regulated in
City Code Section
11-3-5.
      2.   Home occupations as regulated in City Code Section
11-4-3.
      3.   Private swimming pools, intended for and used solely by the
occupants of the property on which it is located and their guests.
      4.   Signs as regulated by the City.
      5.   Structures incidental to farm operations such as garages, barns,
storage buildings, poultry barns, etc. on lots greater than ten (10) acres.
      6.   Produce stands selling only items produced on the property.
      7.   In home daycare facility licensed under Minnesota Rules Parts
9502.0315 to 9502.0445, serving fourteen (14) or fewer children.
   D.   Conditional Uses: No structure or land shall be used for the following
uses except by conditional use permit:
      1.   Structures incidental to farm operations such as garages, barns,
storage buildings, poultry barns, etc. on lots less than ten (10) acres.
      2.   Commercial horse stables, dog kennels, boarding stables and similar
uses, which shall not be located within three hundred feet (300') of a dwelling
other than the dwelling on the property in question.
      3.   Cannabis Cultivation, indoor or outdoor. Cannabis cultivation must
comply with City Code Section
11-4-18.
   E.   Interim Uses: The following are interim uses allowed in the AG-
1 District and require an interim use permit based upon procedures set forth in
and regulated in City Code Section
11-2-9. Additional specific standards and criteria may be cited below for
respective uses.
      1.   Farmers Market.
   F.   Administrative Conditional Uses: Subject to application provisions of
this Chapter, performance and processing standards established by this Title,
the following are uses allowed in the AG-1 District by administrative
conditional use permit and may be issued by the Zoning Administrator.
      1.   Communication / Cellular antennas as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-14.
      2.   Public utility and public service structures, including electrical
transmission lines and substations, gas regulator stations, communications
equipment buildings, pumping stations or reservoirs. (amd. Ord. 1081, 5-1-2024;
Ord. 1088, 12-4-2024)
§ 11-6-2: AG-2 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: This District represents those areas which are suitable for
agricultural uses, but because of their proximity to public sewer and water,
they may be appropriate for development in the future. These areas are not
considered to be land suited to long-term agricultural use. It is the purpose
of this District to preserve these lands in agricultural uses until such time
as streets, sewers, water supply and other community facilities and services
are provided or scheduled, so as to ensure orderly and beneficial conversion of
such lands to nonagricultural use, and to prevent their premature conversion.
   B.    Permitted Uses:
      1.   The following are permitted uses in the AG-2 District:
         a.   Commercial agriculture and horticulture.
         b.   Commercial greenhouses.
         c.   Farm buildings and pole barns.
         d.   Farm drainage and irrigation systems.
         e.   Forestry.
         f.   Small wireless facilities located in the public right of way.
         g.   One (1) single-family detached dwelling per each ten (10) acres.
      2.   Minimum lot area: ten (10) acres provided that a parcel of more than
three (3) acres and less than five (5) acres may be created as a minor
subdivision as long as the following criteria is met:
         a.   The initial parcel is ten (10) acres or more in size and must be
a parcel of record as of the date of this Chapter.
         b.   Only one (1) minor subdivision from the initial parcel is allowed
until the property receives full public utilities.
         c.   One hundred eighty feet (180') of street frontage is required for
each parcel.
         d.   Lots created solely for municipal utility facilities shall not be
subject to minimum lot width, depth and area requirements.
         e.   Both lots must comply with the minimum setback requirements.
      3.   Setback requirements:
 
Front yard 100 feet
Side yard  25 feet
Rear yard  50 feet
 
      4.   Location of driveways: The lot shall be located in such a manner
that no driveways may be located within three hundred feet (300') of an
intersection of a minor arterial with another road or within one hundred and
fifty feet (150') of an intersection of two (2) collector streets.
   C.   Permitted Accessory Uses: Uses and structures which are customarily
accessory and clearly subordinate to permitted uses and structures shall be
permitted, including:
      1.   Accessory structures incidental to residential uses as regulated in
City Code Section
11-3-5.
      2.   Home occupations as regulated in City Code Section
11-4-3.
      3.   Private swimming pools, intended for and used solely by the
occupants of the property on which it is located and their guests.
      4.   Signs as regulated by the City Code.
      5.   Structures incidental to farm operations such as garages, barns,
storage buildings, poultry barns, etc. on lots greater than five (5) acres.
      6.   Produce stands selling only items produced on the property.
      7.   In home daycare facility licensed under Minnesota Rules Parts
9502.0315 to 9502.0445, serving fourteen (14) or fewer children.
   D.   Conditional Uses: No structure or land shall be used for the following
uses except by conditional use permit:
      1.   Structures incidental to farm operations such as garages, barns,
storage buildings, poultry barns, etc. on lots less than five (5) acres.
      2.   Commercial horse stables, dog kennels, boarding stables and similar
uses, which shall not be located within three hundred feet (300') of a dwelling
other than the dwelling on the property in question.
      3.   Cannabis Cultivation, indoor or outdoor. Cannabis cultivation must
comply with City Code Section
11-4-18.
   E.   Interim Uses: The following are interim uses allowed in the AG-
2 District and require an interim use permit based upon procedures set forth in
and regulated by City Code Section
11-2-9. Additional specific standards and criteria may be cited below for
respective uses.
      1.   Farmers Market.
   F.   Administrative Conditional Uses: Subject to application provisions of
this Chapter, performance and processing standards established by this Title,
the following are uses allowed in the AG-2 District by administrative
conditional use permit as may be issued by the Zoning Administrator.
      1.   Communication / Cellular antennas as regulated in City Code Section
11-4-14.
      2.   Public utility and public service structures, including electrical
transmission lines and substations, gas regulator stations, communications
equipment buildings, pumping stations or reservoirs. (amd. Ord. 1081, 5-1-2024;
Ord. 1088, 12-4-2024)
CHAPTER 7: RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
Section
11-7-1: R-1 Rural Residential Zoning District
11-7-2: R-2 Residential Estate Zoning District
11-7-3: R-3 Single-Family Zoning District
11-7-4: R-4 Transitional Residential Zoning District
11-7-5: R-5 Medium Density Residential Zoning District
11-7-6: R-6 High Density Residential Zoning District
§ 11-7-1: R-1 RURAL RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The R-1 rural residential district represents those areas
without public utilities that are suitable for residential development. These
areas are designated as rural residential in the City’s comprehensive plan. It
is the intent that low densities be maintained in order to permit efficient re-
subdivision of lots to urban densities at such future time that public
utilities become available.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following are permitted uses in the R-1 District:
      1.   One (1) single-family detached dwelling.
      2.   Agriculture and agricultural related buildings.
      3.   Structures and essential services for local, county, state, or
federal government or public utility purposes, except those requiring
administrative permits or Conditional Use Permits.
      4.   Public parks, trails, scientific areas, playgrounds, and directly
related buildings and structures.
      5.   Small wireless facilities located in the public right-of-way.
      6.   A state licensed residential facility serving six (6) or fewer
persons, a licensed day care facility serving twelve (12) or fewer persons, and
a group family day care facility licensed under Minnesota Rules Parts 9502.3015
to 9502.0445 to serve fourteen (14) or fewer children, except a residential
facility whose primary purpose is to treat juveniles who have violated criminal
statutes relating to sex offenses or have been adjudicated delinquent on the
basis of conduct in violation of criminal statutes relating to sex offenses
shall not be permitted pursuant to Minnesota Statutes Section 462.357,
subdivision 7.
   C.   Permitted Accessory Uses: The following are permitted accessory uses in
the R-1 District:
      1.   Accessory buildings and structures as regulated by City Code Section
11-3-5.
      2.   Accessory uses incidental and customary to the uses listed as
permitted, conditional, interim, and uses by administrative permit in this
Section.
      3.   Accessory apartments.
      4.   Home occupations as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-3.
      5.   Keeping of animals as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-15 and Title 5, Chapter 4.
      6.   Signs as regulated by City Code.
      7.   Produce Stand.
   D.   Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses allowed in the R-
1 District and require a Conditional Use Permit based upon procedures set forth
in and regulated in City Code Section
11-2-8. Additional specific standards and criteria may be cited below for
respective conditional uses. No structure or land shall be used for one (1) or
more of the following uses except by Conditional Use Permit:
      1.   Accessory buildings and structures requiring a Conditional Use
Permit as provided in City Code Section
11-3-5.
      2.   Telecommunication tower, as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-14.
      3.   Places of worship and religious institutions.
      4.   Cemeteries and/or memorial gardens.
      5.   Licensed home-based daycare facilities serving up to sixteen (16)
persons.
      6.   Licensed group daycare/nursery school in a religious institution,
community center, or academic institution.
      7.   Educational facilities including but not limited to, public and
private elementary, middle, junior high, and senior high schools, provided that
no building shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot line abutting
an R district.
      8.   Commercial greenhouses, provided, that all outside storage is fenced
in such a manner so as to screen the stored material from view when observed
from the public street or an adjoining lot.
      9.   Commercial horse stables, dog kennels, dog training facilities,
boarding stables and similar uses, on parcels of ten (10) acres or more and
which shall not be located within three hundred feet (300') of a dwelling other
than the dwelling on the property in question.
      10.   Home occupations as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-3.
      11.   Limited commercial ventures conducted at historic properties as
regulated in City Code Section
2-2-6.
      12.    Tax exempt clubs and lodges.
      13.   Golf course.
   E.   Interim Uses: The following are interim uses allowed in the R-
3 District and require an interim use permit based upon procedures set forth in
and regulated by City Code Section
11-2-9. Additional specific standards and criteria may be cited below for
respective uses.
      1.   Farmers Market.
   F.   Administrative Conditional Uses: Subject to application provisions of
this Chapter, performance and processing standards established by this Title,
the following are uses allowed in the R-1 District by conditional
administrative permit as may be issued by the Zoning Administrator.
      1.   Accessory buildings and structures requiring a conditional
administrative permit as provided in City Code Section
11-3-5.
      2.   Communication / Cellular antenna as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-14.
      3.   Public utility and public service structures, including electrical
transmission lines and substations, gas regulator stations, communications
equipment buildings, pumping stations or reservoirs.
      4.   Essential services and structures, provided that no building shall
be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot line abutting an R district.
   G.   Development Standards: The following minimum requirements shall be
observed, subject to the additional requirements, exceptions and modifications
set forth in this Title:
Lot area                        3 acres
Lot width                       180 feet
Front yard                      30 feet
Rear yard                       50 feet
Side yard                       25 feet
Side yard, attached garage      20 feet
Corner yard                     20 feet
Maximum structure height        35 feet
Maximum impervious lot coverage 25 percent
(amd. Ord. 1081, 5-1-2024)
§ 11-7-2: R-2 RESIDENTIAL ESTATE ZONING DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The R-2 residential estate district is intended to represent
areas well suited to high value housing of very low densities. These areas will
provide a permanent, semirural lifestyle on land for which this is considered
the highest and best use. This area may be served by public utilities in the
future.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following are permitted uses in the R-2 District:
      1.   One (1) single-family detached dwelling.
      2.   Agriculture and agricultural related buildings on lots greater than
five (5) acres.
      3.   Structures and essential services for local, county, state, or
federal government or public utility purposes, except those requiring
administrative permits or Conditional Use Permits.
      4.   Public Parks, trails, scientific areas, playgrounds, and directly
related buildings and structures.
      5.   Small wireless facilities located in the public right-of-way.
      6.   A state licensed residential facility serving six (6) or fewer
persons, a licensed day care facility serving twelve (12) or fewer persons, and
a group family day care facility licensed under Minnesota Rules Parts 9502.3015
to 9502.0445 to serve fourteen (14) or fewer children, except a residential
facility whose primary purpose is to treat juveniles who have violated criminal
statutes relating to sex offenses or have been adjudicated delinquent on the
basis of conduct in violation of criminal statutes relating to sex offenses
shall not be permitted pursuant to Minnesota Statutes Section 462.357,
subdivision 7.
   C.   Permitted Accessory Uses: The following are permitted accessory uses in
the R-2 District:
      1.   Accessory buildings and structures as regulated by City Code Section
11-3-5.
      2.   Accessory uses incidental and customary to the uses listed as
permitted, conditional, interim, and uses by administrative permit in this
Section.
      3.   Accessory apartments.
      4.   Home occupations as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-3.
      5.   Keeping of animals as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-15 and Title 5, Chapter 4.
      6.   Signs as regulated by City Code.
   D.   Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses allowed in the R-
2 District and require a Conditional Use Permit based upon procedures set forth
in and regulated in City Code Section
11-2-8. Additional specific standards and criteria may be cited below for
respective conditional uses. No structure or land shall be used for one (1) or
more of the following uses except by Conditional Use Permit:
      1.   Accessory buildings and structures requiring a Conditional Use
Permit as provided in City Code Section
11-3-5
      2.   Telecommunication tower, as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-14.
      3.   Licensed home-based daycare facilities serving thirteen (13) to
sixteen (16) persons.
      4.   Licensed group daycare/nursery school in a religious institution,
community center, or academic institution.
      5.   Educational facilities including but not limited to, public and
private elementary, middle, junior high, and senior high schools, provided that
no building shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot line abutting
an R district.
      6.   Commercial horse stables, dog kennels, boarding stables and similar
uses on parcels of ten (10) acres or more, which shall not be located within
three hundred feet (300') of a dwelling other than the dwelling on the property
in question.
      7.   Small wireless facilities as regulated in City Code Title 7, Chapter
6.
      8.   Golf courses and country clubs, which may include a restaurant, on-
sale liquor license, assembly, and accessory retailing; tennis clubs, and
swimming pools serving more than 1 family. The principal structure for any of
the above listed uses shall be one hundred feet (100') or more from any
abutting lot in an R district, and accessory structures shall be a minimum of
fifty feet (50') from any lot line.
      9.   Home occupations as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-3.
      10.   Places of worship and religious institutions.
   E.   Interim Uses: The following are interim uses allowed in the R-
2 District and require an interim use permit based upon procedures set forth in
and regulated by City Code Section
11-2-9. Additional specific standards and criteria may be cited below for
respective uses.
      1.   Farmers Market.
   F.   Administrative Conditional Uses: Subject to application provisions of
this Chapter, performance and processing standards established by this Title,
the following are uses allowed in the R-2 District by conditional
administrative permit as may be issued by the Community Development Director.
      1.   Accessory buildings and structures requiring a conditional
administrative permit as provided in City Code Section
11-3-5.
      2.   Communication / Cellular antennas as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-14.
      3.   Public utility and public service structures, including electrical
transmission lines and substations, gas regulator stations, communications
equipment buildings, pumping stations or reservoirs.
      4.   Essential services and structures, provided that no building shall
be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot line abutting an R district.
   G.   Development Standards: The following minimum requirements shall be
observed, subject to the additional requirements, exceptions and modifications
set forth in this Title:
Lot area                        1 and 1/2 acres
Lot width                       100 feet
Front yard                      30 feet
Rear yard                       50 feet
Side yard                       25 feet
Side yard, garage               20 feet
Corner yard                     20 feet
Maximum structure height        35 feet
Maximum impervious lot coverage 30 percent
(amd. Ord. 1081, 5-1-2024)
§ 11-7-3: R-3 SINGLE-FAMILY ZONING DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The R-3 single-family residential district is intended to
preserve the character of existing single-family neighborhoods and provide for
additional development of single-family detached residential neighborhoods.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in the R-3 residential
district:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings.
      2.   Structures and essential services for local, county, state, or
federal government or public utility purposes, except those requiring
administrative permits or Conditional Use Permits, provided, that no building
shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot line.
      3.   Public Parks, trails, scientific areas, playgrounds, and directly
related buildings and structures.
      4.   Small wireless facilities located in the public right-of-way.
      5.   A state licensed residential facility serving six (6) or fewer
persons, a licensed day care facility serving twelve (12) or fewer persons, and
a group family day care facility licensed under Minnesota Rules Parts 9502.3015
to 9502.0445 to serve fourteen (14) or fewer children, except a residential
facility whose primary purpose is to treat juveniles who have violated criminal
statutes relating to sex offenses or have been adjudicated delinquent on the
basis of conduct in violation of criminal statutes relating to sex offenses
shall not be permitted pursuant to Minnesota Statutes Section 462.357,
subdivision 7.
   C.   Permitted Accessory Uses: The following uses are permitted accessory
uses in the R-3 residential district:
      1.   Accessory buildings and structures as regulated by City Code Section
11-3-5.
      2.   Accessory uses incidental and customary to the uses listed as
permitted, conditional, interim, and uses by administrative permit in this
Title.
      3.   Accessory apartments.
      4.   Home occupations as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-3.
      5.   Keeping of animals as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-15 and Title 5, Chapter 4.
      6.   Signs as regulated by City Code.
      7.   Private swimming pools, recreational courts and play apparatus
intended for and used by the occupants of the property on which they are
located.
      8.   Buildings or trailers for purposes of construction or sales on the
premises for a period of time not to exceed construction.
   D.   Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses allowed in the R-
3 District and require a Conditional Use Permit based upon procedures set forth
in and regulated in City Code Section
11-2-8. Additional specific standards and criteria may be cited below for
respective conditional uses. No structure or land shall be used for one (1) or
more of the following uses except by Conditional Use Permit:
      1.   Accessory buildings and structures requiring a Conditional Use
Permit as provided in City Code Section
11-3-5.
      2.   Telecommunication towers, as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-14.
      3.   Licensed home-based daycare facilities serving thirteen (13) to
sixteen (16) persons.
      4.   Licensed group daycare/nursery school in a religious institution,
community center, or academic institution.
      5.   Educational facilities including but not limited to, public and
private elementary, middle, junior high, and senior high schools, provided that
no building shall be located within fifty feet (50) of any lot line abutting an
R district.
      6.   Places of worship and religious institutions.
      7.   Cemeteries.
      8.   Small wireless facilities as regulated in City Code Title 7, Chapter
6.
      9.   Golf courses and country clubs, which may include a restaurant, on-
sale liquor license, assembly, and accessory retailing; tennis clubs, and
swimming pools serving more than one (1) family. The principal structure for
any of the above listed uses shall be one hundred feet (100') or more from any
abutting lot in an R district, and accessory structures shall be a minimum of
fifty feet (50') from any lot line.
      10.   Home occupations as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-3.
      11.   Limited commercial ventures conducted at “historic properties” as
regulated in City Code Section
2-2-6.
   E.   Interim Uses: The following are interim uses allowed in the R-
3 District and require an interim use permit based upon procedures set forth in
and regulated by City Code Section
11-2-9. Additional specific standards and criteria may be cited below for
respective uses.
      1.   Farmers Market.
   F.   Administrative Conditional Uses: Subject to application provisions of
this Chapter, performance and processing standards established by this Title,
the following are uses allowed in the R-3 District by conditional
administrative permit as may be issued by the Community Development Director.
      1.   Accessory buildings and structures requiring an administrative
permit as provided in City Code Section
11-3-5.
      2.   Communication / Cellular antennas as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-14.
      3.   Public utility and public service structures, including electrical
transmission lines and substations, gas regulator stations, communications
equipment buildings, pumping stations or reservoirs.
      4.   Essential services and structures, provided that no building shall
be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot line abutting an R district.
      5.   Buildings or trailers for purposes of construction or sales on the
premises for a period of time not to exceed construction.
   G.   Development Standards: Minimum Requirements: The following minimum
requirements shall be observed, subject to the additional requirements,
exceptions and modifications set forth in this Title:
Lot depth                  130 feet
Lot width                  65 feet
Front yard                 25 feet
Rear yard                  35 feet
Side yard                  7.5 feet
Side yard, garage          5 feet
Corner yard                20 feet
Maximum structure height   35 feet
Maximum impervious surface 40%
(amd. Ord. 1081, 5-1-2024)
§ 11-7-4: R-4 TRANSITIONAL RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the R-4 District is to provide transitional
areas that will allow a mixing of single-family detached and single family
attached dwellings on smaller lots where property is adjacent to a minor or
major collector street and/or where property is adjacent to higher intensity
development or land use. Directly related, complementary uses are also
appropriate. A full range of public services and facilities shall be available
to R-4 areas.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in the R-4 residential
district:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings.
      2.   Multi-family dwellings.
      3.   Structures and essential services for local, county, state, or
federal government or public utility purposes, except those requiring
administrative permits or Conditional Use Permits, provided, that no building
shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot line.
      4.   A state licensed residential facility serving six (6) or fewer
persons, a licensed day care facility serving twelve (12) or fewer persons, and
a group family day care facility licensed under Minnesota Rules Parts 9502.3015
to 9502.0445 to serve fourteen (14) or fewer children, except a residential
facility whose primary purpose is to treat juveniles who have violated criminal
statutes relating to sex offenses or have been adjudicated delinquent on the
basis of conduct in violation of criminal statutes relating to sex offenses
shall not be permitted pursuant to Minnesota Statutes Section 462.357,
subdivision 7.
      5.   Public Parks, trails, scientific areas, playgrounds, and directly
related buildings and structures.
      6.   Small wireless facilities located in the public right-of-way.
   C.   Permitted Accessory Uses: The following uses are permitted accessory
uses in the R-4 residential district:
      1.   Accessory buildings and structures as regulated by City Code Section
11-3-5.
      2.   Accessory uses incidental and customary to the uses listed as
permitted, conditional, interim, and uses by administrative permit in this
Title.
      3.   Accessory apartments.
      4.   Home occupations as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-3.
      5.   Daycare facility licensed under Minnesota Rules Parts 9502.0315 to
9502.0445, serving fourteen (14) or fewer children.
      6.   Keeping of animals as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-15 and Title 5, Chapter 4.
      7.   Signs as regulated by City Code.
      8.   Buildings or trailers for purposes of construction or sales on the
premises for a period of time not to exceed construction.
      9.   Private swimming pools, recreational courts and play apparatus
intended for and used by the occupants of the property on which they are
located.
   D.   Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses allowed in the R-
4 District and require a Conditional Use Permit based upon procedures set forth
in and regulated in City Code Section
11-2-8. Additional specific standards and criteria may be cited below for
respective conditional uses. No structure or land shall be used for one (1) or
more of the following uses except by Conditional Use Permit:
      1.   Accessory buildings and structures requiring a Conditional Use
Permit as provided in City Code Section
11-3-5.
      2.   Antennas not located upon an existing structure or existing tower,
as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-14.
      3.   State licensed residential facility serving seven (7) to sixteen
(16) persons or a licensed day care facility serving thirteen (13) to sixteen
(16) persons.
      4.   Licensed group daycare/nursery school in a religious institution,
community center, or academic institution.
      5.   Educational facilities including but not limited to, public and
private elementary, middle, junior high, and senior high schools, provided that
no building shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot line abutting
an R district.
      6.   Cemeteries.
      7.   Places of worship and religious institutions.
      8.   Essential services requiring a Conditional Use Permit pursuant to
City Code Section
11-2-8.
      9.   Home occupations as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-3.
   E.   Administrative Conditional Uses: Subject to application provisions of
this Chapter, performance and processing standards established by this Title,
the following are uses allowed in the R-4 District by conditional
administrative permit as may be issued by the Community Development Director.
      1.   Accessory buildings and structures requiring an administrative
permit as provided in City Code Section
11-3-5.
      2.   Communication / Cellular antenna as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-14.
      3.   Public utility and public service structures, including electrical
transmission lines and substations, gas regulator stations, communications
equipment buildings, pumping stations or reservoirs.
      4.   Essential services and structures, provided that no building shall
be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot line abutting an R district.
   F.   Development Standards:
      1.   Single-Family Detached Dwellings: The following minimum requirements
shall be observed, subject to the additional requirements, exceptions and
modifications as set forth in this Title:
Lot width                           45 feet
Lot depth                           120 feet
Front yard                          25 feet
Rear yard                           30 feet
Side yard                           7.5 feet
Side yard, garage                   5 feet
Corner yard                         20 feet
Maximum structure height            35 feet
Maximum impervious surface coverage 50%
 
      2.   Attached Dwellings: Exceptions to rigid lot width requirements shall
be granted for attached units subject to approval of a site plan pursuant to
City Code Section
11-2-4 in compliance with the development standards of this District. The
following minimum requirements shall be observed, subject to the additional
requirements, exceptions and modifications as set forth in this Title:
 
Setbacks between buildings    15 feet between dwelling structures, 10 feet for
                              residential garages
Setbacks from other districts 25 feet abutting R-1, R-2, and R-3 districts
Parking                       2 paved off-street parking spaces per dwelling
                              unit
Maximum site coverage         40% total impervious
(amd. Ord. 1081, 5-1-2024; Ord. 1100, 4-16-2025)
§ 11-7-5: R-5 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the R-5 District is to promote the development
of higher density, primarily attached housing and directly related,
complementary uses. Densities will help the City meet its multiple family
density goals. A full range of public services and facilities shall be
available to R-5 areas.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in the R-5 residential
district:
      1.   Multi-family dwellings.
      2.   Structures and essential services for local, county, state, or
federal government or public utility purposes, except those requiring
administrative permits or Conditional Use Permits, provided, that no building
shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot line.
      3.   Public parks, trails, scientific areas, playgrounds, and directly
related buildings and structures.
      4.   Small wireless facilities located in the public right-of-way.
      5.   Memory care facilities and/or nursing homes.
      6.   Hospitals for human care; provided, that all structures except
fences shall be located one hundred feet (100') or more from the lot line.
   C.   Permitted Accessory Uses: The following uses are permitted accessory
uses in the R-5 residential district:
      1.   Accessory buildings and structures as regulated by City Code Section
11-3-5.
      2.   Accessory uses incidental and customary to the uses listed as
permitted, conditional, interim, and uses by administrative permit in this
Title.
      3.   Home occupations as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-3.
      4.   Signs as regulated by City Code.
      5.   Buildings or trailers for purposes of construction or sales on the
premises for a period of time not to exceed construction.
      6.   Private swimming pools, recreational courts and play apparatus
intended for and used by the occupants of the property on which they are
located and maintained by the community’s homeowners association.
   D.   Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses allowed in the R-
5 District and require a Conditional Use Permit based upon procedures set forth
in and regulated in City Code Section
11-2-8. Additional specific standards and criteria may be cited below for
respective conditional uses. No structure or land shall be used for one (1) or
more of the following uses except by Conditional Use Permit:
      1.   Accessory buildings and structures requiring a Conditional Use
Permit as provided in City Code Section
11-3-5.
      2.   Antennas not located upon an existing structure or existing tower,
as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-14.
      3.   State licensed residential facility serving seven (7) to sixteen
(16) persons or a licensed day care facility serving thirteen (13) to sixteen
(16) persons.
      4.   Places of worship and religious institutions.
      5.   Residential shelters.
      6.   Essential services requiring a Conditional Use Permit pursuant to
City Code Section
11-2-8.
      7.   Home occupations as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-3.
      8.   Educational facilities including but not limited to, public and
private elementary, middle, junior high, and senior high schools, provided that
no building shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot line abutting
an R district.
   E.   Administrative Conditional Uses: Subject to application provisions of
this Chapter, performance and processing standards established by this Title,
the following are uses allowed in the R-5 District by conditional
administrative permit as may be issued by the Community Development Director.
      1.   Accessory buildings and structures requiring an administrative
permit as provided in City Code Section
11-3-5.
      2.   Communication / Cellular antennas as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-14.
      3.   Public utility and public service structures, including electrical
transmission lines and substations, gas regulator stations, communications
equipment buildings, pumping stations or reservoirs.
      4.   Essential services and structures, provided that no building shall
be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot line abutting an R district.
   F.   Development Standards: The following minimum requirements shall be
observed, subject to the additional requirements, exceptions and modifications
as set forth in this Title:
Front yard                          25 feet
Rear yard                           30 feet
Side yard                           15 feet
Corner yard                         20 feet
Maximum height                      35 feet
Setbacks between buildings          10 feet
Setbacks from other districts       30 feet abutting R-1, R-2, R-3, and R-
                                    4 districts
Parking                             2 paved off-street parking spaces per
                                    dwelling unit
Maximum impervious surface coverage 40% total impervious
(amd. Ord. 1081, 5-1-2024)
§ 11-7-6: R-6 HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the R-6 District is to provide for high-
density, apartment-style, rental and condominium housing and directly related
complementary uses. A full range of public services and facilities shall be
available to R-6 areas.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in the R-6 residential
district:
      1.   Multi-family dwellings including apartments and condominiums.
      2.   Structures and essential services for local, county, state, or
federal government or public utility purposes, except those requiring
administrative permits or Conditional Use Permits, provided, that no building
shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot line.
      3.   Public parks, trails, scientific areas, playgrounds, and directly
related buildings and structures.
      4.   Small wireless facilities located in the public right-of-way.
      5.   Memory care facilities and/or nursing homes.
      6.   Hospitals for human care; provided, that all structures except
fences shall be located one hundred feet (100') or more from the lot line.
   C.   Permitted Accessory Uses: The following uses are permitted accessory
uses in the R-6 residential district:
      1.   Accessory buildings and structures as regulated by City Code Section
11-3-5.
      2.   Accessory uses incidental and customary to the uses listed as
permitted, conditional, interim, and uses by administrative permit in this
Title.
      3.   Home occupations as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-3.
      4.   Signs as regulated by City Code.
      5.   Buildings or trailers for purposes of construction or sales on the
premises for a period of time not to exceed construction.
      6.   Private swimming pools, recreational courts and play apparatus
intended for and used by the occupants of the property on which they are
located and maintained by the community’s homeowners association.
   D.   Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses allowed in the R-
6 District and require a Conditional Use Permit based upon procedures set forth
in and regulated in City Code Section
11-2-8. Additional specific standards and criteria may be cited below for
respective conditional uses. No structure or land shall be used for one (1) or
more of the following uses except by Conditional Use Permit:
      1.   Antennas not located upon an existing structure or existing tower,
as regulated in City Code Section
11-4-14.
      2.   State licensed residential facility serving seven (7) to sixteen
(16) persons or a licensed day care facility serving thirteen (13) to sixteen
(16) persons.
      3.   Places of worship and religious institutions.
      4.   Residential shelters.
      5.   Small wireless facilities as regulated in City Code Title 7, Chapter
6.
      6.   Essential services requiring a Conditional Use Permit pursuant to
City Code Section
11-2-8.
      7.   Home occupations as regulated in City Code Section
11-4-3.
      8.   Educational facilities including but not limited to, public and
private elementary, middle, junior high, and senior high schools, provided that
no building shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot line abutting
an R district.
   E.   Administrative Conditional Uses: Subject to application provisions of
this Chapter, performance and processing standards established by this Title,
the following are uses allowed in the R-6 District by conditional
administrative permit as may be issued by the Community Development Director.
      1.   Accessory buildings and structures requiring an administrative
permit as provided in City Code Section
11-3-5.
      2.   Communication / Cellular towers as regulated by City Code Section
11-4-14.
      3.   Public utility and public service structures, including electrical
transmission lines and substations, gas regulator stations, communications
equipment buildings, pumping stations or reservoirs.
      4.   Essential services and structures, provided that no building shall
be located within fifty feet (50') of any lot line abutting an R district.
   F.   Development Standards: The following minimum requirements shall be
observed, subject to the additional requirements, exceptions and modifications
as set forth in this Title, however exceptions to rigid lot area, width and
depth requirements shall be granted for attached units subject to approval of a
site plan pursuant to City Code Section
11-2-4 in compliance with the development standards of this District.
Front yard                          15 feet
Rear yard                           15 feet
Side yard                           15 feet
Maximum structure height            55 feet
Setbacks between buildings          15 feet
Setbacks from other districts       30 feet abutting R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, and R-
                                    5 districts
Parking                             1.6 paved off-street parking spaces per
                                    dwelling unit
Maximum impervious surface coverage 65% total impervious
(amd. Ord. 1081, 5-1-2024; Ord. 1100, 4-16-2025)
CHAPTER 8: BUSINESS DISTRICTS
Section
11-8-1: Purpose
11-8-2: Permitted, Conditional, Accessory, Administrative and Interim Uses
11-8-3: Minimum and Maximum Development Standards
§ 11-8-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Limited Business District, B-1. The limited business district (B-1) is
intended to provide a buffer district to adjoining residential districts for
administrative office buildings and related office uses which are subject to
more restrictive controls than the General Business District (B-3).
   B.   Retail Business District, B-2. The retail business district (B-2) is to
encourage retail sales and services while minimizing the negative impact to the
surrounding residential neighborhoods.
   C.   General Business District, B-3. The general business district (B-3) is
intended to provide centralized areas for retail business areas and highway or
automobile-oriented businesses.
   D.   Planned Business District, P-B. The planned business district (P-B) is
intended to provide for the mix of suitable retail, commercial and industrial
uses which are complementary and ancillary to the Cottage Grove industrial
park. The district allows for a blend of manufacturing and retail uses which
have significant customer interaction.
   E.   Mixed-Use Business District, M-U. The Mixed-Use Business District (M-U)
is a commercial district intended to provide flexibility to allow complementary
uses that support one another, including high density residential, commercial
services and retail, employment opportunities, and transit. The district
promotes a walkable, sustainable development pattern while still accommodating
the automobile.
§ 11-8-2: PERMITTED, CONDITIONAL, ACCESSORY, ADMINISTRATIVE AND INTERIM USES:
   A.   Purpose: The use table as provided in this Section depicts the
classification of land uses within zoning districts.
   B.   Table Key: The following labeling applies to the table in this Section:
      1.   Uses Defined: Uses not defined in this Chapter are subject to
standard dictionary definitions.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Uses identified in the zoning district column with
the letter “P” are allowed as permitted uses, primary or accessory, in the
respective zoning district.
      3.   Conditional Uses: Uses identified in the zoning district column with
the letter “C” are allowed as conditional uses, primary or accessory, in the
respective zoning district. Conditional uses must obtain a conditional use
permit prior to commencing.
      4.   Administrative Conditional Uses: Uses identified in the zoning
district column with the letters “AC” are allowed as administrative conditional
uses, primary or accessory, in the respective zoning district. Administrative
conditional uses must obtain an administrative conditional use permit prior to
commencing.
      5.   Interim Uses: Uses identified in the zoning district column with the
letter “I” are allowed as interim uses, primary or accessory, in the respective
zoning district. Interim uses must obtain an interim conditional use permit
prior to commencement.
      6.   Accessory Uses: Uses identified in the zoning district column with
the letter “A” are allowed as accessory uses in the respective zoning district.
      7.   Prohibited Uses: Uses not listed or not associated with a letter in
the zoning district column are prohibited uses in the respective zoning
district.
      8.   Standards: For ease of reference, uses for which specific standards
apply include a reference to the applicable Code Section.
   C.   Use Table:
USE TYPE B-1 B-2 B-3 P-B M-U
USE TYPE                                                    B-1 B-2 B-3 P-B M-U
Accessory uses or retail sales which are customarily
incidental and clearly subordinate to the primary use       A   A   A   A   A
within the principal structure
Adult uses                                                        P       
Apartments / condominiums                                                   P
Apartments with Commercial                                                  C
Automated car wash as an accessory use                      A   A   A   A   A
Automobile car wash (drive- through, mechanical and self-      C   C   C   C
service)
Automobile Repair-Major                                                 C
Automobile Repair-Minor                                             C   C   C
Automotive, motorcycle, trailer, recreation vehicles, boats
and/or farm equipment establishments for display, hire,
service, rental, leasing and/or sales conducted outside a         C   C    
building, provided servicing is conducted within a
building.
Banks and other financial institutions with a drive-up      C   C   C   C   C
window
Banks and other financial institutions without drive-up     P   P   P   P   P
window
Blacktop or crushing materials for roadway materials        I   I   I   I    
Cannabis or intoxicating CBD sales                                  P   P   P
Cannabis retail                                                     C   C   C
Catering establishment                                         P   P   P    
Cellular Antennas (attached to structures)                      AC  AC  AC  AC
Commercial Recreation - Indoor                                 P   P   P   P
Commercial Recreation - Outdoor                                   C   C
Community Center                                                    C   C   C
Dance and/or music studios                                  P   P   P   P   P
Daycare                                                     C   C   C       P
Donation Drop Boxes                                             AC  AC  AC  AC
Construction and/or trades sales and service shops; with
storage of equipment, supplies or materials inside a              P   P    
building
Electric Car Charging Station                               AC  AC  AC  AC  AC
Equipment rental, inside a building (no outdoor display)       P   P   P   P
Equipment rental with outside storage                             C   C    
Essential service structures, including, but not limited
to, buildings such as telephone stations, booster or        AC  AC  AC  AC  AC
pressure stations, elevated tanks, lift stations and
electric power substations
Event Center                                                        C   C   C
Farmers’ market                                           I   I   I   I   I
Funeral homes                                               P   P   P      P
Furniture and upholstery repair refinish shops                     P   P
Garden Centers and nurseries                                      C   C    
Greenhouse (seasonal)                                           I   I   I   I
Hotel, motel                                                   C   C   C   C
Lower-potency hemp edible retail beverages (associated with AC  AC  AC  AC  AC
on-sale or off-sale liquor)
Lower-potency hemp edible retail (not associated with on-           C   C   C
sale or off-sale liquor)
Manufacturing, compounding, assembly, and packaging inside           P    
a building
Medical and/or dental clinics, hospitals                    P   P   P   P   P
Motor fuel stations                                         C   C   C   C   C
Movie theater                                                  P   P   P   P
Municipal and government buildings and structures,          C   C   C   C   C
including police, fire, library, public works garages
Nursing homes, memory care, or retirement homes             C   C   C      C
Off street parking, storage garage, parking decks, parking
ramps and buildings and loading areas when incidental and   A   A   A   A   A
subordinate to any permitted use
Offices for administrative, executive, or professional      P   P   P   P   P
services
Outdoor seating or dining                                   C   A   A   A   A
Park and ride facilities                                               C
Pawnshop                                                           C        
Personal Services (nail, massage, hair, tanning, etc)       P   P   P   P   P
Pet related care including dog daycare, boarding,                 C   C    
veterinary clinics and grooming with outdoor use.
Pet related care including veterinary clinics with no           P   P   P   P
outdoor use.
Public parks                                                P   P   P   P   P
Public, parochial and private schools, trade and business   C   C   C   C   C
schools, colleges and universities
Research and development including laboratories (i.e.       P   P   P   P   P
medical, software, communications, scientific, etc.)
Restaurants, excluding a drive-up window                    P   P   P   P   P
Restaurants, with drive-up window                              C   C   C   C
Restaurants, with on-sale liquor                            P   P   P   P   P
Retail uses                                                 P   P   P   P   P
Self-storage facility                                                C    
Showroom warehouse                                                     P    
Signs                                                       A   A   A   A   A
Stockpiling of materials incidental to construction             I   I   I   I
activities
Tattoo and body piercing                                       P   P   P   P
Tax exempt lodges and clubs; provided, they are more than       C   C       C
75 feet from a residential district
Temporary accessory outdoor sales                              AC  AC  AC  AC
Temporary buildings for construction purposes for a period  AC  AC  AC  AC  AC
not to exceed the completion date of such construction
Wholesale businesses                                            P   P   P   P
Wholesale with no product on-site                              C   C   C   C
 
(amd. Ord. 1088, 12-4-2024)
§ 11-8-3: MINIMUM AND MAXIMUM DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards to be Observed: The minimum and maximum development standards
for each zoning district shown in the development standards table shall be
observed.
   B.   Development Standards Table:
Development Standards B-1 B-2 B-3 P-B M-U
Development Standards                  B-1     B-2     B-3     P-B     M-U
Minimum lot width                      100 ft. 100 ft. 100 ft. 100 ft. 100 ft.
Minimum front yard                     25 ft.  25 ft.  25 ft.  25 ft.  25 ft.
Minimum side yard, interior lot line   10 ft.  10 ft.  10 ft.  10 ft.  10 ft.
Minimum side yard line adjacent to a   25 ft.  25 ft.  25 ft.  25 ft.  25 ft.
street
Corner Lot setback on front and side   30 ft.  30 ft.  20 ft.  20 ft.  20 ft.
yard
Minimum rear yard                      35 ft.  35 ft.  10 ft.  10 ft.  10 ft.
Minimum rear yard, abutting a          50 ft.  50 ft.  50 ft.  50 ft.  50 ft.
residential district
Minimum rear yard, abutting a railroad --      10 ft.  10 ft.  10 ft.  10 ft.
track right of way
Maximum building height                35 ft.  35 ft.  40 ft.  50 ft.  55 ft.
Maximum Impervious coverage            70%     70%     70%     70%     70%
(amd. Ord. 1081, 5-1-2024)
CHAPTER 9: INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
Section
11-9-1: Purpose
11-9-2: Permitted, Conditional, Accessory, Administrative and Interim Uses
11-9-3: Development Standards
§ 11-9-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   I-1 General Industrial District: The I-1 General Industrial District is
intended to provide a district which is appropriate for manufacturing,
compounding, processing, packaging or treatment of products, excluding hide or
animal processing. Property zoned I-1 will be located within the metropolitan
urban service area (MUSA) and served by public utility systems.
   B.   I-2 Heavy Industrial District: The I-2 Heavy Industrial District is to
provide areas suitable for industrial uses which are more intense than the I-
1 district, however will not allow hide or animal processing, and may have
greater impact to noncommercial land uses. Property zoned I-2 will be located
inside the metropolitan urban service area.
   C.   I-3 Commercial Excavation District: The I-3 Commercial Excavation
District is to provide for the excavation of sand, gravel and other mineral
deposits or materials for the current future, recognizing that the areas will
be rezoned after excavation is complete. Property zoned I-3 will be located
outside the metropolitan urban service area.
§ 11-9-2: PERMITTED, CONDITIONAL, ACCESSORY, ADMINISTRATIVE AND INTERIM USES:
   A.    Purpose: The use table as provided in this Section depicts the
classification of land uses within zoning districts.
   B.   Table Key: The following labeling applies to the table in this Section:
      1.   Uses Defined: Uses not defined in this Chapter are subject to
standard dictionary definitions.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Uses identified in the zoning district column with
the letter “P” are allowed as permitted uses, primary or accessory, in the
respective zoning district.
      3.   Conditional Uses: Uses identified in the zoning district column with
the letter “C” are allowed as conditional uses, primary or accessory, in the
respective zoning district. Conditional uses must obtain a conditional use
permit prior to commencing.
      4.   Administrative Conditional Uses: Uses identified in the zoning
district column with the letters “AC” are allowed as administrative conditional
uses, primary or accessory, in the respective zoning district. Administrative
conditional uses must obtain an administrative conditional use permit prior to
commencing.
      5.   Interim Uses: Uses identified in the zoning district column with the
letter “I” are allowed as interim uses, primary or accessory, in the respective
zoning district. Interim uses must obtain an interim conditional use permit
prior to commencement.
      6.   Accessory Uses: Uses identified in the zoning district column with
the letter “A” are allowed as accessory uses in the respective zoning district.
      7.   Prohibited Uses: Uses not listed or not associated with a letter in
the zoning district column are prohibited uses in the respective zoning
district.
      8.   Standards: For ease of reference, uses for which specific standards
apply include a reference to the applicable Code Section.
   C.   Use Table:
USE TYPE I-1 I-2 I-3
USE TYPE                                                            I-1 I-2 I-3
Agricultural                                                        P   P   P
Automobile repair, painting, body work (inside the principal        P   P
structure)
Automotive sales - Indoor, no exterior storage                      P   P
Brewery/Distillery/Restaurant                                       C   P
Buildings temporarily located for purposes of construction for the  AC  AC  AC
construction period only
Cafeteria                                                           A   A
Cannabis manufacturing                                              C   C
Cleaning and maintenance services including but not limited to          C
carpet, laundry, furniture, upholstery, appliances, etc.)
Commercial production greenhouses                                   C   C
Construction trades                                                 P   P
Cultivation (indoor or outdoor)                                     C   C
Data center                                                         C   C
Essential services and buildings                                    P   P   P
Gas Station                                                         C   C
Gun and/or archery ranges (inside a structure)                      P   P
Gun and/or archery ranges (outdoors)                                    C
Laboratories, research and development facilities                   P   P
Machine shops                                                       P   P
Manufacturing, production, testing or processing of cannabis,       C   C
wholesale with product on-site, warehousing
Manufacturing within an enclosed building (assembly & packaging)    P   P
Mining and excavation                                                       C
Municipal and government buildings                                  P   P   P
Offices                                                             P   P
Off street parking, storage garages and buildings and loading areas A   A
Outdoor parking of trucks and commercial vehicles                   A   A   A
Outdoor screen storage incidental to principal use: up to 5,000 sq  P/C P/C P/C
ft (P), over 5,000 sq ft (C)
Packaging/processing food products                                  C   C
Parcel delivery services                                            P   P
Pharmaceutical/Medical device manufacturing                         C   P
Power plants                                                            C
Public enclosed rental storages or garages                          C   C
Recreational facilities - Indoor                                    P
Sale showrooms                                                      P
Signs                                                               A   A   A
Storage (inside the principal structure)                            P   P
Storage of crude oil, refined oil, alcohol and other liquids in
outdoor aboveground storage tanks, incidental to the principal use  A   A   A
and not for sale
Truck, service and maintenance stations (inside the principal       C   C
structure)
Veterinarian clinics (inside the principal structure) (P); with     P/C
outdoor run (C)
Vocation/technical schools                                          P   P
Warehouses and distribution facilities                              P   P
Wastewater treatment facilities                                         C
 
(amd. Ord. 1088, 12-4-2024)
§ 11-9-3: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   The following table of minimum lot area, yard and bulk requirements shall be
observed:
Development Standards I-1 I-2 I-3
Development Standards                                I-1      I-2      I-3
Minimum Lot width                                    175 feet 200 feet 200 feet
Minimum Front yard setback                           40 feet  50 feet  100 feet
Minimum side yard setback, interior lot line         40 feet  40 feet  40 feet
Minimum side yard setback, adjacent to a street      40 feet  40 feet  125 feet
Minimum side yard setback, abutting a residential    100 feet 125 feet 200 feet
district
Minimum Rear yard setback                            60 feet  60 feet  100 feet
Minimum Rear yard setback abutting a residential     100 feet 150 feet 200 feet
district
Maximum Building height                              55 feet  60 feet  60 feet
Note: No minimum lot width is required for essential                  
public services.
(amd. Ord. 1081, 5-1-2024)
CHAPTER 10: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
11-10-1: Authority; Findings of Fact; Purpose
11-10-2: General Provisions
11-10-3: Establishment of Zoning District Overlay
11-10-4: Floodway District (FW)
11-10-5: Flood Fringe District (FF)
11-10-6: General Floodplain District
11-10-7: Subdivisions
11-10-8: Public Utilities, Railroads, Roads, and Bridges
11-10-9: Manufactured Homes and Manufactured Home Parks and Placement of
Recreational Vehicles
11-10-10: Administration
11-10-11: Nonconforming Uses
11-10-12: Amendments
§ 11-10-1: AUTHORITY; FINDINGS OF FACT; PURPOSE:
   A.   Statutory Authority: The legislature of the state of Minnesota, in
Minnesota Statutes, Chapters 103F and 462, has delegated the responsibility to
local government units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
   B.   Findings of Fact: The City Council of the City of Cottage Grove makes
the following findings:
      1.   The flood hazard areas of the City of Cottage Grove, Minnesota, are
subject to periodic inundation which results in potential loss of life, loss of
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures or flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
      2.   This Chapter is based upon a reasonable method of analyzing flood
hazards which is consistent with the standards established by the Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources.
      3.   This Chapter is adopted to comply with the rules and regulations of
the National Flood Insurance Program codified as 44 Code of Federal Regulations
Parts 59-78, as amended, so as to maintain eligibility of the Cottage Grove
community in the national flood insurance program.
   C.   Statement of Purpose: It is the purpose of this Chapter to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize those losses
described in this Section.
§ 11-10-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands to Which Chapter Applies: This Chapter applies to all lands
within the jurisdiction of the City as shown on the City’s Official Zoning Map
and the attachments thereto as being located within the boundaries of the
floodway, flood fringe, or general floodplain districts.
   B.   Establishment of Official Zoning Map: The Official Zoning Map together
with all attachments thereto is hereby adopted by reference. The attachments to
the Official Zoning Map include the flood insurance study for Washington
County, Minnesota, and incorporated areas and flood insurance rate map panels
therein numbered 27163C0392E, 27163C0394E, 27163C0403E, 27163C0405E,
27163C0410E, 27163C0411E, 27163C0412E, 27163C0413E, 27163C0414E, 27163C0416E,
27163C0417E, 27163C0418E, 27163C0419E, 27163C0430E and 27163C0438E, all dated
February 3, 2010, and prepared by the federal emergency management agency. The
Official Zoning Map shall be on file in the Office of the City Clerk.
   C.   Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation: The regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be seven hundred feet (700') above mean sea level or an
elevation no lower than one foot (1') above the elevation of the regional flood
plus any increases in flood elevation caused by encroachments on the floodplain
that result from designation of a floodway, whichever is greater.
   D.   Interpretation:
      1.   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
Chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the City and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal
of any other powers granted by state statutes.
      2.   The boundaries of the zoning districts shall be determined by
scaling distances on the Official Zoning Map. Where interpretation is needed as
to the exact location of the boundaries of the district as shown on the
Official Zoning Map, as for example where there appears to be a conflict
between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions and there is a formal
appeal of the decision of the Community Development Director, the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals shall make the necessary interpretation. All decisions
will be based on elevations on the regional (one hundred (100) year) flood
profile, the ground elevations that existed on the site at the time the city
adopted its initial floodplain ordinance or on the date of the first national
flood insurance program map showing the area within the one hundred (100) year
floodplain if earlier, and other available technical data. Persons contesting
the location of the district boundaries shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to present their case to the Board of Adjustments and Appeals and to submit
technical evidence.
   E.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions: It is not intended by this Chapter
to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this Chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this Chapter shall prevail. The regulations in this Chapter are
in addition to rather than in substitution of regulations imposed by any other
zoning classification for designated floodplains. In the event of any
inconsistency between the provisions of this Chapter and other City Code
provision, the more restrictive provision shall prevail.
   F.   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability: This Chapter does not imply that
areas outside the floodplain districts or land uses permitted within such
districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. This Chapter shall not
create liability on the part of the City or any officer or employee thereof for
any flood damages that may result from reliance on this Chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
   G.   Severability: If any Section, clause, provision, or portion of this
Chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this Chapter shall not be affected thereby.
   H.   Annexations: The flood insurance rate map panels adopted by reference
in this Section may include floodplain areas that lie outside of the corporate
boundaries of the City at the time of adoption of this Chapter. If any of these
floodplain land areas are annexed into the City after the date of adoption of
this Chapter, the newly annexed floodplain lands shall be subject to the
provisions of this Chapter immediately upon the date of annexation into the
City.
§ 11-10-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICT OVERLAY:
   A.   Flood Management Overlay Districts:
      1.   Floodway District: The floodway district shall include those areas
designated as floodway on the flood insurance rate map adopted in City Code
Section
11-10-2.
      2.   Flood Fringe District: The flood fringe district shall include those
areas designated as floodway fringe. The flood fringe district shall include
those areas shown on the flood insurance rate map as adopted in City Code
Section
11-10-2 as being within zone AE but being located outside of the floodway.
      3.   General Floodplain District: The general floodplain district shall
include those areas designated as zone A and zone AE without a floodway on the
flood insurance rate map adopted in City Code Section
11-10-2.
   B.   Compliance: No new structure or land shall hereafter be used and no
structure shall be constructed, located, extended, converted, or structurally
altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this
Chapter. Within the floodway, flood fringe and general floodplain districts,
all uses not listed as permitted uses or conditional uses in City Code Sections
11-10-4,
11-10-5 and
11-10-6 that follow, respectively, shall be prohibited. In addition, a caution
is provided here that:
      1.   New manufactured homes, replacement manufactured homes and certain
travel trailers and travel vehicles are subject to the general provisions of
this Chapter and specifically City Code Section
11-10-9.
      2.   Modifications, additions, structural alterations, normal maintenance
and repair, or repair after damage to existing nonconforming structures and
nonconforming uses of structures or land are regulated by the general
provisions of this Chapter and specifically City Code Section
11-10-11.
      3.   As built elevations for elevated or floodproofed structures must be
certified by ground surveys and floodproofing techniques must be designed and
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect as specified in
the general provisions of this Chapter and specifically as stated in City Code
Section
11-10-10.
§ 11-10-4: FLOODWAY DISTRICT (FW):
   A.   Permitted Uses:
      1.   General farming, pasture, grazing, outdoor plant nurseries,
horticulture, truck farming, forestry, sod farming, and wild crop harvesting.
      2.   Industrial-commercial loading areas, parking areas, and airport
landing strips.
      3.   Private and public golf courses, tennis courts, driving ranges,
archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching ramps, swimming areas, parks,
wildlife and nature preserves, game farms, fish hatcheries, shooting preserves,
target ranges, trap and skeet ranges, hunting and fishing areas, and single or
multiple purpose recreational trails.
      4.   Residential lawns, gardens, accessory parking areas, and play areas.
   B.   Standards for Floodway Permitted Uses:
      1.   The use shall have a low flood damage potential.
      2.   The use shall be permissible in the underlying zoning district.
      3.   The use shall not obstruct flood flows or increase flood elevations
and shall not involve structures, fill, obstructions, excavations or storage of
materials or equipment.
   C.   Conditional Uses:
      1.   Structures accessory to permitted uses listed above.
      2.   Extraction and storage of sand, gravel, and other materials.
      3.   Marinas, boat rentals, docks, piers, wharves, and water control
structures.
      4.   Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines, and
pipelines.
      5.   Storage yards for equipment, machinery, or materials, other than
fuel storage tanks.
      6.   Placement of fill or construction of fences.
      7.   Recreational vehicles either on individual lots of record or in
existing or new subdivisions or commercial or condominium type campgrounds,
subject to the exemptions and provisions of City Code Section
11-10-9.C.
      8.   Structural works for flood control such as levees, dikes and
floodwalls constructed to any height where the intent is to protect individual
structures and levees or dikes where the intent is to protect agricultural
crops for a frequency flood event equal to or less than the ten (10) year
frequency flood event.
   D.   Standards for Floodway Conditional Uses:
      1.   All Uses: No structure (temporary or permanent), fill (including
fill for roads and levees), deposit, obstruction, storage of materials or
equipment, or other uses may be allowed as a conditional use that will cause
any increase in the stage of the one hundred (100) year or regional flood or
cause an increase in flood damages in the reach or reaches affected.
      2.   Conditional Uses: All floodway conditional uses are subject to the
procedures and standards contained in City Code Section
11-10-10.D.
      3.   Conditional Use Permissible: The conditional use shall be
permissible in the underlying zoning district.
      4.   Fill:
         a.   Fill, dredge spoil, and all other similar materials deposited or
stored in the floodplain shall be protected from erosion by vegetative cover,
mulching, riprap or other acceptable method.
         b.   Dredge spoil sites and sand and gravel operations shall not be
allowed in the floodway unless a long-term site development plan is submitted
which includes an erosion/sedimentation prevention element to the plan.
         c.   As an alternative, and consistent with subsection D.4.b of this
Section, dredge spoil disposal and sand and gravel operations may allow
temporary, on-site storage of fill or other materials which would have caused
an increase to the stage of the one hundred (100) year or regional flood but
only after the City has received an appropriate plan which assures the removal
of the materials from the floodway based upon the flood warning time available.
The conditional use permit must be recorded in the Office of the County
Recorder or County Registrar of Titles, as appropriate.
      5.   Accessory Structures:
         a.   Accessory structures shall not be designed for human habitation.
         b.   Accessory structures, if permitted, shall be constructed and
placed on the building site so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the flow
of floodwaters:
            (1)   Whenever possible, structures shall be constructed with the
longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood flow; and
            (2)   So far as practicable, structures shall be placed
approximately on the same flood flow lines as those of adjoining structures.
         c.   Accessory structures shall be elevated on fill or structurally
dry floodproofed in accordance with the FP-1 or FP-2 floodproofing
classifications in the state building code. As an alternative, an accessory
structure may be floodproofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 floodproofing classification
in the State Building Code provided the accessory structure constitutes a
minimal investment, does not exceed five hundred (500) square feet in size at
its largest projection, and for a detached garage, the detached garage must be
used solely for parking of vehicles and limited storage. All floodproofed
accessory structures must meet the following additional standards:
            (1)   The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure and shall be designed
to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls;
            (2)   Any mechanical and utility equipment in a structure must be
elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or properly
floodproofed; and
            (3)   To allow for the equalization of hydrostatic pressure, there
must be a minimum of two (2) “automatic” openings in the outside walls of the
structure having a total net area of not less than one (1) square inch for
every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding. There must be openings
on at least two (2) sides of the structure and the bottom of all openings must
be no higher than one foot (1') above the lowest adjacent grade to the
structure. Using human intervention to open a garage door prior to flooding
will not satisfy this requirement for automatic openings.
      6.   Storage of Materials and Equipment:
         a.   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive, or potentially injurious to human, animal, or
plant life is prohibited.
         b.   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if readily
removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning and in
accordance with a plan approved by the City Council.
      7.   Structural Works: Structural works for flood control that will
change the course, current or cross section of protected wetlands or public
waters shall be subject to the provisions of Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 103G.
Community wide structural works for flood control intended to remove areas from
the regulatory floodplain shall not be allowed in the floodway.
      8.   Levee, Dike or Floodwall in Floodway: A levee, dike or floodwall
constructed in the floodway shall not cause an increase to the one hundred
(100) year or regional flood and the technical analysis must assume equal
conveyance or storage loss on both sides of a stream.
§ 11-10-5: FLOOD FRINGE DISTRICT (FF):
   A.   Permitted Uses: Permitted uses shall be those uses of land or
structures listed as permitted uses in the underlying zoning use district(s).
All permitted uses shall comply with the standards for flood fringe district
“permitted uses” listed in subsection B of this Section and subsection E,
“Standards For All Flood Fringe Uses”, of this Section.
   B.   Standards For Flood Fringe Permitted Uses:
      1.   All structures, including accessory structures, must be elevated on
fill so that the lowest floor including basement floor is at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation. The finished fill elevation for
structures shall be no lower than one foot (1') below the regulatory flood
protection elevation and the fill shall extend at such elevation at least
fifteen feet (15') beyond the outside limits of the structure erected thereon.
      2.   As an alternative to elevation on fill, accessory structures that
constitute a minimal investment and that do not exceed five hundred (500)
square feet at its largest projection may be internally floodproofed in
accordance with City Code Section
11-10-4.D.5.c.
      3.   The cumulative placement of fill where at any one (1) time in excess
of one thousand (1,000) cubic yards of fill is located on the parcel shall be
allowable only as a conditional use, unless said fill is specifically intended
to elevate a structure in accordance with subsection B.1 of this Section.
      4.   The storage of any materials or equipment shall be elevated on fill
to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      5.   The provisions of subsection E of this Section shall apply.
   C.   Conditional Uses: Any structure that is not elevated on fill or
floodproofed in accordance with subsections B.1 through B.2 of this Section or
any use of land that does not comply with the standards in subsections B.3
through B.4 of this Section shall only be allowable as a conditional use. An
application for a conditional use shall be subject to the standards and
criteria and evaluation procedures specified in subsections D and E of this
Section and City Code Section
11-10-10.D.
   D.   Standards for Flood Fringe Conditional Uses:
      1.   Alternative Methods: Alternative elevation methods other than the
use of fill may be utilized to elevate a structure’s lowest floor above the
regulatory flood protection elevation. These alternative methods may include
the use of stilts, pilings, parallel walls, etc., or above grade, enclosed
areas such as crawl spaces or tuck under garages. The base or floor of an
enclosed area shall be considered above grade and not a structure’s basement or
lowest floor if: a) the enclosed area is above grade on at least one (1) side
of the structure; b) it is designed to internally flood and is constructed with
flood resistant materials; and c) it is used solely for parking of vehicles,
building access or storage. The above noted alternative elevation methods are
subject to the following additional standards:
         a.   Design and Certification: The structure’s design and as built
condition must be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
as being in compliance with the general design standards of the state building
code and, specifically, that all electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and
air conditioning equipment and other service facilities must be at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation or be designed to prevent floodwater from
entering or accumulating within these components during times of flooding.
         b.   Specific Standards for Above Grade, Enclosed Areas: Above grade,
fully enclosed areas such as crawl spaces or tuck under garages must be
designed to internally flood and the design plans must stipulate:
            (1)   A minimum area of openings in the walls where internal
flooding is to be used as a floodproofing technique. There shall be a minimum
of two (2) openings on at least two (2) sides of the structure and the bottom
of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1') above grade. The
automatic openings shall have a minimum net area of not less than one (1)
square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding unless a
registered professional engineer or architect certifies that a smaller net area
would suffice. The automatic openings may be equipped with screens, louvers,
valves, or other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters without any form of human intervention; and
            (2)   That the enclosed area will be designed of flood resistant
materials in accordance with the FP-3 or FP-4 classifications in the State
Building Code and shall be used solely for building access, parking of vehicles
or storage.
      2.   Basements: Basements, as defined by City Code Section
11-1-3, shall be subject to the following:
         a.   Residential basement construction shall not be allowed below the
regulatory flood protection elevation.
         b.   Nonresidential basements may be allowed below the regulatory
flood protection elevation provided the basement is structurally dry
floodproofed in accordance with subsection D.3 of this Section.
      3.   Floodproofing Structures Below Regulatory Flood Protection
Elevation: All areas of nonresidential structures including basements to be
placed below the regulatory flood protection elevation shall be floodproofed in
accordance with the structurally dry floodproofing classifications in the state
building code. Structurally dry floodproofing must meet the FP-1 or FP-
2 floodproofing classification in the state building code and this shall
require making the structure watertight with the walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effects of
buoyancy. Structures floodproofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 classification shall not
be permitted.
      4.   Erosion/Sedimentation Control Plan: When at any one (1) time more
than one thousand (1,000) cubic yards of fill or other similar material is
located on a parcel for such activities as on-site storage, landscaping, sand
and gravel operations, landfills, roads, dredge spoil disposal or construction
of flood control works, an erosion/sedimentation control plan must be submitted
unless the City is enforcing a state approved shore land management ordinance.
In the absence of a state approved shore land ordinance, the plan must clearly
specify methods to be used to stabilize the fill on site for a flood event at a
minimum of the one hundred (100) year or regional flood event. The plan must be
prepared and certified by a registered professional engineer or other qualified
individual acceptable to the City Council. The plan may incorporate alternative
procedures for removal of the material from the floodplain if adequate flood
warning time exists.
      5.   Storage of Materials and Equipment:
         a.   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive, or potentially injurious to human, animal, or
plant life is prohibited.
         b.   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if readily
removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning and in
accordance with a plan approved by the City Council.
      6.   Other Provisions that Apply: The provisions of subsection E of this
Section shall also apply.
   E.   Standards for all Flood Fringe Uses:
      1.   All new principal structures must have vehicular access at or above
an elevation not more than two feet (2') below the regulatory flood protection
elevation. If a variance to this requirement is granted, the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals must specify limitations on the period of use or
occupancy of the structure for times of flooding and only after determining
that adequate flood warning time and local flood emergency response procedures
exist.
      2.   Commercial uses: Accessory land uses, such as yards, railroad
tracks, and parking lots may be at elevations lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation. However, a permit for such facilities to be used by the
employees or the general public shall not be granted in the absence of a flood
warning system that provides adequate time for evacuation if the area would be
inundated to a depth and velocity such that when multiplying the depth (in
feet) times velocity (in feet per second) the product number exceeds four (4)
upon occurrence of the regional flood.
      3.   Manufacturing and industrial uses: Measures shall be taken to
minimize interference with normal plant operations especially along streams
having protracted flood durations. Certain accessory land uses such as yards
and parking lots may be at lower elevations subject to requirements set out in
subsection E.2 of this Section. In considering permit applications, due
consideration shall be given to needs of an industry whose business requires
that it be located in floodplain areas.
      4.   Fill shall be properly compacted and the slopes shall be properly
protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other acceptable method.
The federal emergency management agency (FEMA) has established criteria for
removing the special flood hazard area designation for certain structures
properly elevated on fill above the one hundred (100) year flood elevation;
FEMA’s requirements incorporate specific fill compaction and side slope
protection standards for multi-structure or multi-lot developments. These
standards should be investigated prior to the initiation of site preparation if
a change of special flood hazard area designation will be requested.
      5.   Floodplain developments shall not adversely affect the hydraulic
capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary watercourse
or drainage system where a floodway or other encroachment limit has not been
specified on the Official Zoning Map.
      6.   Standards for recreational vehicles are contained in City Code
Section
11-10-9.C.
      7.   All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse and lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to, use
of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
forces.
§ 11-10-6: GENERAL FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT:
   A.   Permissible Uses:
      1.   The uses listed in City Code Section
11-10-4.A shall be permitted uses.
      2.   All other uses shall be subject to the floodway/flood fringe
evaluation criteria pursuant to subsection B of this Section. City Code Section
11-10-4 shall apply if the proposed use is in the floodway district and City
Code Section
11-10-5 shall apply if the proposed use is in the flood fringe district.
   B.   Procedures for Floodway and Flood Fringe Determinations Within the
General Floodplain District:
      1.   Upon receipt of an application for a permit or other approval within
the general floodplain district, the applicant shall be required to furnish
such of the following information as is deemed necessary by the Community
Development Director for the determination of the regulatory flood protection
elevation and whether the proposed use is within the floodway or flood fringe
district.
         a.   A typical valley cross section(s) showing the channel of the
stream, elevation of land areas adjoining each side of the channel, cross
sectional areas to be occupied by the proposed development, and high-water
information.
         b.   A surface view plan showing elevations or contours of the ground,
pertinent structure, fill, or storage elevations, the size, location, and
spatial arrangement of all proposed and existing structures on the site, and
the location and elevations of streets.
         c.   Photographs showing existing land uses, vegetation upstream and
downstream, and soil types.
         d.   A profile showing the slope of the bottom of the channel or flow
line of the stream for at least five hundred feet (500') in either direction
from the proposed development.
      2.   The applicant shall be responsible to submit one (1) copy of the
above information to a designated engineer or other expert person or agency for
technical assistance in determining whether the proposed use is in the floodway
or flood fringe district and to determine the regulatory flood protection
elevation. Procedures consistent with Minnesota Rules Parts 6120.5000 -
6120.6200 and 44 Code of Federal Regulations Part 65 shall be followed in this
expert evaluation. The designated engineer or expert is strongly encouraged to
discuss the proposed technical evaluation methodology with the respective
Department of Natural Resources area hydrologist prior to commencing the
analysis. The designated engineer or expert shall:
         a.   Estimate the peak discharge of the regional flood.
         b.   Calculate the water surface profile of the regional flood based
upon a hydraulic analysis of the stream channel and overbank areas.
         c.   Compute the floodway necessary to convey or store the regional
flood without increasing flood stages more than one-half (½) foot. A lesser
stage increase than one-half (½) foot shall be required if, as a result of the
additional stage increase, increased flood damages would result. An equal
degree of encroachment on both sides of the stream within the reach shall be
assumed in computing floodway boundaries.
      3.   The Community Development Director shall present the technical
evaluation and findings of the designated engineer or expert to the City
Council. The City Council must formally accept the technical evaluation and the
recommended floodway and/or flood fringe district boundary or deny the permit
application. The City Council, prior to official action, may submit the
application and all supporting data and analyses to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, the Department of Natural Resources or the Planning
Commission for review and comment. Once the floodway and flood fringe district
boundaries have been determined, the City Council shall refer the matter back
to the Community Development Director who shall process the permit application
consistent with the applicable provisions of City Code Sections
11-10-4 and
11-10-5.
§ 11-10-7: SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Review Criteria: No land shall be subdivided which is unsuitable for
the reason of flooding, inadequate drainage, water supply or sewage treatment
facilities. All lots within the floodplain districts shall be able to contain a
building site outside of the floodway district at or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation. All subdivisions shall have water and sewage treatment
facilities that comply with the provisions of this Chapter and have road access
both to the subdivision and to the individual building sites no lower than two
feet (2') below the regulatory flood protection elevation. For all subdivisions
in the floodplain, the floodway and flood fringe district boundaries, the
regulatory flood protection elevation and the required elevation of all access
roads shall be clearly labeled on all required subdivision drawings and
platting documents.
   B.   Floodway/Flood Fringe Determinations in the General Floodplain
District: In the General Floodplain District, applicants shall provide the
information required in City Code Section
11-10-6.B to determine the one hundred (100) year flood elevation, the floodway
and flood fringe district boundaries and the regulatory flood protection
elevation for the subdivision site.
   C.   Removal of Special Flood Hazard Area Designation: The Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) has established criteria for removing the special
flood hazard area designation for certain structures properly elevated on fill
above the one hundred (100) year flood elevation. FEMA’s requirements
incorporate specific fill compaction and side slope protection standards for
multi-structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should be
investigated prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of special
flood hazard area designation will be requested.
§ 11-10-8: PUBLIC UTILITIES, RAILROADS, ROADS, AND BRIDGES:
   A.   Public Utilities: All public utilities and facilities such as gas,
electrical, sewer, and water supply systems to be located in the floodplain
shall be floodproofed in accordance with the State Building Code or elevated to
above the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   B.   Public Transportation Facilities: Railroad tracks, roads, and bridges
to be located within the floodplain shall comply with City Code Sections
11-10-4 and
11-10-5. Elevation to the regulatory flood protection elevation shall be
provided where failure or interruption of these transportation facilities would
result in danger to the public health or safety or where such facilities are
essential to the orderly functioning of the area. Minor or auxiliary roads or
railroads may be constructed at a lower elevation where failure or interruption
of transportation services would not endanger the public health or safety.
   C.   On Site Sewage Treatment and Water Supply Systems: Where public
utilities are not provided:
      1.   On site water supply systems must be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems; and
      2.   New or replacement on-site sewage treatment systems must be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters and they shall not be subject to
impairment or contamination during times of flooding.
      3.   Any sewage treatment system designed in accordance with the state’s
current statewide standards for on-site sewage treatment systems shall be
determined to be in compliance with this Section.
§ 11-10-9: MANUFACTURED HOMES AND MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS AND PLACEMENT OF
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
   A.   New manufactured home parks and expansions to existing manufactured
home parks shall be subject to the provisions placed on subdivisions by City
Code Section
11-10-7.
   B.   The placement of new or replacement manufactured homes in existing
manufactured home parks or on individual lots of record that are located in
floodplain districts will be treated as a new structure and may be placed only
if elevated in compliance with City Code Section
11-10-5. If vehicular road access for preexisting manufactured home parks is
not provided in accordance with City Code Section
11-10-5.E.1, then replacement manufactured homes will not be allowed until the
property owner(s) develops a flood warning emergency plan acceptable to the
City Council.
      1.   All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse and lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to, use
of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
forces.
   C.   Recreational vehicles that do not meet the exemption criteria specified
in subsection C.1 of this Section shall be subject to the provisions of this
Chapter and as specifically spelled out in subsections C.3 through C.4 of this
Section.
      1.   Exemption: Recreational vehicles are exempt from the provisions of
this Chapter if they are placed in any of the areas listed in subsection C.2 of
this Section and meet the following criteria:
         a.   Have current licenses required for highway use.
         b.   Are highway ready meaning that they are on wheels or an internal
jacking system, are attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities commonly used in campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks, and the
recreational vehicle has no permanent structural type additions attached to it.
         c.   The recreational vehicle and associated use must be permissible
in the underlying zoning district.
      2.   Areas Exempted for Placement of Recreational Vehicles: Recreational
vehicles that meet the criteria in subsection C.1 of this Section are exempt
from the provisions of this Chapter only if they are placed in one (1) of the
following locations:
         a.   Individual lots or parcels of record.
         b.   Existing commercial recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds.
         c.   As part of an existing condominium type association.
      3.   Recreational Vehicles Exempted: Recreational vehicles exempted in
subsection C1 of this section lose the exemption when development occurs on the
parcel exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a structural addition to
the recreational vehicle or exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for an
accessory structure such as a garage or storage building. The recreational
vehicle and all additions and accessory structures will then be treated as a
new structure and shall be subject to the elevation/floodproofing requirements
and the use of land restrictions specified in City Code Sections
11-10-4 and
11-10-5. There shall be no development or improvement on the parcel or
attachment to the recreational vehicle that hinders the removal of the
recreational vehicle to a flood free location should flooding occur.
      4.   New Recreational Vehicle Parks or Campgrounds: New commercial
recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds and new residential type subdivisions
and condominium associations and the expansion of any existing similar use
exceeding five (5) units or dwelling sites shall be subject to the following:
         a.   Any new or replacement recreational vehicle will be allowed in
the floodway or flood fringe districts provided said recreational vehicle and
its contents are placed on fill above the regulatory flood protection elevation
and proper elevated road access to the site exists in accordance with City Code
Section
11-10-5.E.1. No fill placed in the floodway to meet the requirements of this
Section shall increase flood stages of the one hundred (100) year or regional
flood.
         b.   All new or replacement recreational vehicles not meeting the
criteria of subsection C.4.a of this Section may, as an alternative, be allowed
as a conditional use if in accordance with the following provisions and the
provisions of City Code Section
11-10-10.D. The applicant must submit an emergency plan for the safe evacuation
of all vehicles and people during the one hundred (100) year flood. Said plan
shall be prepared by a registered engineer or other qualified individual, shall
demonstrate that adequate time and personnel exist to carry out the evacuation,
and shall demonstrate the provisions of subsections C.1.a and C.1.b of this
Section will be met. All attendant sewage and water facilities for new or
replacement recreational vehicles must be protected or constructed so as to not
be impaired or contaminated during times of flooding in accordance with City
Code Section
11-10-8.C.
§ 11-10-10: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Community Development Director: The Community Development Director
shall administer and enforce this Chapter. If the Community Development
Director finds a violation of the provisions of this Chapter the Community
Development Director shall notify the person responsible for such violation in
accordance with the procedures stated in City Code.
   B.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: A permit issued by the Community Development
Director in conformity with the provisions of this Chapter shall be secured
prior to the erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation (including normal
maintenance and repair), or alteration of any building, structure, or portion
thereof; prior to the use or change of use of a building, structure, or land;
prior to the construction of a dam, fence, or onsite septic system; prior to
the change or extension of a nonconforming use; prior to the repair of a
structure that has been damaged by flood, fire, tornado, or any other source;
and prior to the placement of fill, excavation of materials, or the storage of
materials or equipment within the floodplain.
      2.   Application for Permit: Application for a permit shall be made in
duplicate to the Community Development Director on forms furnished by the
Community Development Director and shall include the following where
applicable: plans in duplicate drawn to scale, showing the nature, location,
dimensions, and elevations of the lot; existing or proposed structures, fill,
or storage of materials; and the location of the foregoing in relation to the
stream channel.
      3.   State and Federal Permits: Prior to granting a permit or processing
an application for a conditional use permit or variance, the Community
Development Director shall determine that the applicant has obtained all
necessary state and federal permits.
      4.   Certificate of Zoning Compliance for a New, Altered, or
Nonconforming Use: It shall be unlawful to use, occupy, or permit the use or
occupancy of any building or premises or part thereof hereafter created,
erected, changed, converted, altered, or enlarged in its use or structure until
a certificate of zoning compliance shall have been issued by the Community
Development Director stating that the use of the building or land conforms to
the requirements of this Chapter.
      5.   Construction and Use to be as Provided on Applications, Plans,
Permits, Variances and Certificates of Zoning Compliance: Permits, conditional
use permits, or certificates of zoning compliance issued on the basis of
approved plans and applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and
construction set forth in such approved plans and applications, and no other
use, arrangement, or construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at
variance with that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this Chapter, and
punishable as provided by City Code.
      6.   Certification: The applicant shall be required to submit
certification by a registered professional engineer, registered architect, or
registered land surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were
accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this Chapter. Floodproofing
measures shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or registered
architect.
      7.   Record of First Floor Elevation: The Community Development Director
shall maintain a record of the elevation of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all new structures and alterations or additions to existing
structures in the floodplain. The Community Development Director shall also
maintain a record of the elevation to which structures or alterations and
additions to structures are floodproofed.
      8.   Notifications for Watercourse Alterations: The Community Development
Director shall notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the
Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources prior to the City
authorizing any alteration or relocation of a watercourse. If the applicant has
applied for a permit to work in the beds of public waters pursuant to Minnesota
Statutes, Chapter 103G, this shall suffice as adequate notice to the
commissioner of natural resources. A copy of said notification shall also be
submitted to the Chicago regional office of the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA).
      9.   Notification to FEMA when Physical Changes Increase or Decrease the
One Hundred (100) Year Flood Elevation: As soon as is practicable, but not
later than six (6) months after the date such supporting information becomes
available, the Community Development Director shall notify the Chicago regional
office of FEMA of the changes by submitting a copy of said technical or
scientific data.
   C.   Board of Adjustments and Appeals:
      1.   Administrative Review: The Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall
hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative official in
the enforcement or administration of this Chapter.
      2.   Variances: The Board of Adjustments and Appeals may authorize upon
appeal in specific cases such relief or variance from the terms of this Chapter
as will not be contrary to the public interest and only for those circumstances
such as hardship, practical difficulties or circumstances unique to the
property under consideration. In the granting of such variance, the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals shall clearly identify in writing the specific
conditions that existed consistent with the criteria specified in this chapter,
other zoning regulations in the City, and applicable state law, that justified
the granting of the variance. No variance shall have the effect of allowing in
any district uses prohibited in that district, permit a lower degree of flood
protection than the regulatory flood protection elevation for the particular
area, or permit standards lower than those required by state law. The following
additional variance criteria of the federal emergency management agency must be
satisfied:
         a.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated regulatory
floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would
result.
         b.   Variances shall only be issued upon: 1) a showing of good and
sufficient cause, 2) a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and 3) a determination that
the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with
existing local laws or ordinances.
         c.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      3.   Hearings: Upon filing with the Board of Adjustments and Appeals of
an appeal from a decision of the Community Development Director, or an
application for a variance, the Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall fix a
reasonable time for a hearing and give due notice to the parties in interest as
specified by law. The Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall submit by mail to
the Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources a copy of the
application for proposed variances sufficiently in advance so that the
Commissioner will receive at least ten (10) days’ notice of the hearing.
      4.   Decisions: The Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall arrive at a
decision on such appeal or variance within the time required by law. In passing
upon an appeal, the Board of Adjustments and Appeals may, so long as such
action is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm,
wholly or in part, or modify the order, requirement, decision or determination
of the Community Development Director or other public official. It shall make
its decision in writing setting forth the findings of fact and the reasons for
its decisions. In granting a variance the Board of Adjustments and Appeals may
prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards such as those specified in City
Code Section
11-10-10.D.7, which are in conformity with the purposes of this Chapter.
Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
Chapter. A copy of all decisions granting variances shall be forwarded by mail
to the Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources within ten (10) days
of such action.
      5.   Appeals: Appeals from any decision of the Board of Adjustments and
Appeals may be made, and as specified in the City Code Section
11-2-13.
      6.   Flood Insurance Notice and Recordkeeping: The Community Development
Director shall notify the applicant for a variance that: a) the issuance of a
variance to construct a structure below the base flood level will result in
increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts as high as twenty-
five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage
and b) such construction below the one hundred (100) year or regional flood
level increases risks to life and property. Such notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions. The City shall maintain a
record of all variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and
report such variances issued in its annual or biennial report submitted to the
administrator of the national flood insurance program.
   D.   Conditional Uses: The procedures in City Code Section
11-2-8 shall apply to all applications for conditional use permits under this
Chapter. The following additional provisions shall apply to such applications:
      1.   Copy of Application: The Community Development Director shall mail
to the Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources a copy of the
conditional use permit application sufficiently in advance so that the
Commissioner will receive at least ten (10) days’ advance notice of the public
hearing on the application.
      2.   Copy of Decisions Granted: The Community Development Director shall
mail to the Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources a copy of all
decisions granting conditional use permits within ten (10) days of such action.
      3.   Information Required for Applications: Applications for conditional
use permits must include the following information:
         a.   Plans in triplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions, and elevation of the lot, existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, floodproofing measures, and the relationship of the above
to the location of the stream channel; and
         b.   Specifications for building construction and materials,
floodproofing, filling, dredging, grading, channel improvement, storage of
materials, water supply and sanitary facilities.
      4.   Copy of Information to Designated Engineer: The Community
Development Director will transmit one (1) copy of the information described in
subsection D.3 of this Section to a designated engineer or other expert person
or agency for technical assistance, where necessary, in evaluating the proposed
project in relation to flood heights and velocities, the seriousness of flood
damage to the use, the adequacy of the plans for protection, and other
technical matters. Based upon the technical evaluation of the designated
engineer or expert, the City Council shall determine the specific flood hazard
at the site and evaluate the suitability of the proposed use in relation to the
flood hazard.
      5.   Factors Upon Which Decision Shall be Based: In passing upon
conditional use applications, the City Council shall consider all relevant
factors specified in other Sections of this Chapter, and:
         a.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments.
         b.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others or they may block bridges, culverts or other
hydraulic structures.
         c.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability
of these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary conditions.
         d.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
         e.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community.
         f.   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location.
         g.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use.
         h.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development
and development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
         i.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for the area.
         j.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
         k.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters expected at the site.
         l.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purposes of this
Chapter.
      6.   Time for Acting on Application: The City Council shall act on an
application in the manner described above within the time required by law. The
City Council shall render a written decision on the application.
      7.   Conditions Attached to Conditional Use Permits: Upon consideration
of the factors listed above and the purpose of this Chapter, the City Council
shall attach such conditions to the granting of conditional use permits as it
deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this Chapter. Such conditions may
include, but are not limited to, the following:
         a.   Modification of waste treatment and water supply facilities.
         b.   Limitations on period of use, occupancy, and operation.
         c.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
         d.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications,
compensatory storage, dikes, levees, and other protective measures.
         e.   Floodproofing measures, in accordance with the State Building
Code and this Chapter. The applicant shall submit a plan or document certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect that the floodproofing
measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection elevation and
associated flood factors for the particular area.
§ 11-10-11: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful before
the passage or amendment of this Chapter but which is not in conformity with
the provisions of this Chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions.
   A.   No such use shall be expanded, changed, enlarged, or altered in a way
that increases its nonconformity.
   B.   Any structural alteration or addition to a nonconforming structure or
nonconforming use which would result in increasing the flood damage potential
of that structure or use shall be protected to the regulatory flood protection
elevation in accordance with any of the elevation on fill or floodproofing
techniques (i.e., FP-1 through FP-4 floodproofing classifications) allowable in
the State Building Code, except as further restricted in City Code Sections
11-10-11.C,
11-10-11.D and
11-10-11.E. A structural addition to a nonconforming structure must be located
outside of the floodway and must be elevated on fill to the regulatory flood
protection elevation in accordance with subsection
11-10-2.C of this Chapter.
   C.   The cost of all structural alterations or additions to any
nonconforming structure over the life of the structure shall not exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure unless the conditions of
this Section are satisfied. The cost of all structural alterations and
additions must include all costs such as construction materials and a
reasonable cost placed on all manpower or labor. If the cost of all previous
and proposed alterations and additions exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure, then the structure must meet the standards of
Section
11-10-4 or 11-10-5 of this Chapter for new structures depending upon whether
the structure is in the floodway or flood fringe district, respectively.
   D.   If any nonconforming use is discontinued for twelve (12) consecutive
months, any future use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
The assessor shall notify the Community Development Director in writing of
instances of nonconforming uses that have been discontinued for a period of
twelve (12) months.
   E.   If a substantial improvement occurs from any combination of a building
addition to the outside dimensions of the existing building or a
rehabilitation, reconstruction, alteration, or other improvement to the inside
dimensions of an existing nonconforming structure, then the structural addition
and the existing nonconforming structure must meet the requirements of City
Code Section
11-10-4 or City Code Section
11-10-5 for new structures, depending upon whether the structure is in the
floodway or flood fringe district, respectively. A nonconforming structure
shall not be substantially improved if said structure is located in the
floodway.
§ 11-10-12: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   The floodplain designation on the official zoning map shall not be
removed from floodplain areas unless it can be shown that the designation is in
error or that the area has been filled to or above the elevation of the
regulatory flood protection elevation and is contiguous to lands outside the
floodplain. Special exceptions to this rule may be permitted by the
commissioner of natural resources if he or she determines that, through other
measures, lands are adequately protected for the intended use.
   B.   All amendments to this Chapter, including amendments to the Official
Zoning Map, must be submitted to and approved by the Commissioner of the
Department of Natural Resources prior to adoption. Changes in the Official
Zoning Map must meet the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) technical
conditions and criteria and must receive prior FEMA approval before adoption.
The Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources must be given ten (10)
days’ written notice of all hearings to consider an amendment to this Chapter
and said notice shall include a draft of the ordinance amendment or technical
study under consideration.
CHAPTER 11: CD CONSERVANCY DISTRICT
Section
11-11-1: Purpose
11-11-2: Lands Designated
11-11-3: Interpretation of District Boundaries
11-11-4: Petition Requirements
11-11-5: Permitted Uses
11-11-6: Special Uses
11-11-7: Development Standards
§ 11-11-1: PURPOSE:
   The purpose of this District is to establish provisions for areas containing
valuable environmental qualities which, in order to conserve the City’s natural
resources, preserve the amenities of its environment, prevent the overcrowding
of land, avoid undue concentration of population and alleviate severe flooding
problems, have been determined to best be retained in substantially an
undeveloped state.
§ 11-11-2: LANDS DESIGNATED:
   Private Property: Property in private ownership, consisting of ten (10)
acres or more, that meets the requirements, may also be designated for the
Conservancy District, but only upon acceptance of a petition from the property
owner.
§ 11-11-3: INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
   When uncertainty exists as to the Conservancy District boundaries, the
following rules shall apply:
   A.   District boundaries along a stream are intended to represent the high-
water line of a regional flood; provided, however, that along a stream, such
line shall not be less than fifty feet (50') from the center of such stream.
   B.   District boundaries in a wetland area are intended to represent the
edge of a swamp, marsh or other wetland area. The edge shall be defined as the
mark delineating the highest water level which has been maintained for a
sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the landscape. The edge is
commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from predominantly
aquatic to predominantly terrestrial.
   C.   District boundaries in a public park or common open space are intended
to represent the property lines of such area.
§ 11-11-4: PETITION REQUIREMENTS:
   Before any property in private ownership shall be accepted for inclusion in
the Conservancy District, the petitioner shall provide the following:
   A.   A survey of the property and a legal description of the property. Such
survey shall be prepared by a registered land surveyor.
   B.   A topographic map with contour lines designated at an interval of five
feet (5') or less.
   C.   A site plan indicating the location of all trees of fifteen inches
(15") in diameter or more, as well as other environmentally significant
features.
   D.   An agreement, acceptable to the City Council, which specifies the
length of time such petitioner wishes to have his/her property remain in the
Conservancy District. Under no circumstances shall the time period be less than
five (5) years.
§ 11-11-5: PERMITTED USES:
   The following uses are permitted as a right in the Conservancy District:
   A.   Agricultural uses.
   B.   Conservation uses, including drainage control, forestry, wildlife
sanctuaries and facilities for making such uses available and useful to the
public.
   C.   Nature study areas and arboretums.
   D.   Open space areas connected with residential, commercial and industrial
planned unit developments.
   E.   Outdoor recreational uses operated by a governmental agency or
conservation group, homeowners’ or private associations and facilities for
making such uses useful to the public or to associations.
§ 11-11-6: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
   If, through good site and engineering designs, a development can be created
which is compatible and harmonious with the natural amenities of the
Conservancy District area and with surrounding land uses, a request for a
Planned Unit Development may be submitted in compliance with Title 11, Chapter
12. Such requests shall be accompanied by an overall plan of the entire area
showing roads, parking areas, lot lines, easements, the location of tree cover,
including the designation of individual trees of fifteen inches (15") in
diameter or more, the location of other natural and biological features, such
as wetlands and areas of valuable wildlife habitat, the locations of proposed
structures, existing contours and proposed grading, drainage, utilities and
landscaping in such detail as the Community Development Director and City
Engineer shall require before they may be reviewed by the Planning Commission.
The approval of such a request by the City Council shall require a finding
that:
   A.   The development will not detrimentally affect or destroy natural
features, such as ponds, streams, wetlands and forested areas, but will
preserve and incorporate such features into the development’s site design.
   B.   The location of natural features and the site’s topography have been
considered in the designing and siting of all physical improvements.
   C.   Adequate assurances have been received that the clearing of the site
topsoil, trees and other natural features before the commencement of building
operations will not occur. Only those areas approved for placement of physical
improvements may be cleared.
   D.   The development will not substantially reduce the natural retention
storage capacity of any watercourse, thereby increasing the magnitude and
column of flood at other locations.
   E.   The soil and subsoil conditions are suitable for excavation and site
preparation, and the drainage is designed to prevent erosion and
environmentally deleterious surface runoff.
   F.   The development will be free from offensive noise, vibration, smoke,
dust and other particulate matter, odorous matter, fumes, water pollution and
other objectionable influences.
   G.   The petitioner will be substantially damaged by being required to place
the intended development outside the CD District.
§ 11-11-7: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   The following standards for development of land located within the
Conservancy District are required. They are not meant to abridge or otherwise
alter any regulations promulgated by the State Department of Natural Resources
or watershed district authority:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: Unless intended for a permitted use, the minimum lot
area for a development shall be five (5) acres.
   B.   Lot Coverage: No more than ten percent (10%) of the lot area located in
a CD District shall be occupied by structures, parking facilities and roadways.
   C.   Location in Floodprone Areas: Areas of Conservancy Districts which are
located in a flood plain or floodway shall be additionally subject to the
provisions of the Floodway and Flood Plain District.
CHAPTER 12: PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY
Section
11-12-1: Purpose
11-12-2: Uses
11-12-3: Application Requirements
11-12-4: Approval Process
11-12-5: Lapse of Approval
11-12-6: Amendments
§ 11-12-1: PURPOSE:
   A Planned Unit Development (PUD) is intended to allow flexibility in the
zoning process to encourage innovative design and development. Utilization of a
PUD shall meet the goals and policies of the comprehensive plan and adopted
master plans of the City, while preserving the health, safety, and welfare of
its residents. Pursuant to meeting the purpose(s) listed below, this article
may allow modification to zoning and subdivision requirements.
   A.   To facilitate the economical and efficient provision of streets and
public utilities and to prevent development that would burden the existing tax
base or in areas without adequate public improvements;
   B.   To facilitate developments that provide a benefit to the City as a
whole, through, but not limited to, higher standards of architectural and site
design, enhanced or innovative public infrastructure, sustainable design,
provision of life-cycle and/or affordable housing, redevelopment or expanded
transportation options;
   C.   Preservation of valuable natural resources and amenities to ensure a
higher quality of environmental conservation;
   D.   To increase public open space to ensure concentration of open space
into more usable areas and restoration of natural resources.
   E.   High quality of design and design compatible with surrounding land
uses, including both existing and planned;
   F.   Sensitive development in transitional areas located between different
land uses and along significant transportation or scenic corridors within the
City; and
   G.   Development which is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
§ 11-12-2: USES:
   The provisions of this article apply to any zoning district established
within the City. Within the PUD, uses are determined by the underlying zoning
district and must be in harmony with the Comprehensive Plan.
§ 11-12-3: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   The following information is required for each PUD application:
   A.   Location map showing property in relation to the City as a whole and to
the City’s primary elements such as streets, schools, parks and shopping areas
along with a supporting narrative description of the applicant’s interest in
the property in question;
   B.   A legal description of the property including approximate total
acreage;
   C.   A full set of civil plans for the proposed development, including the
following elements: location of structures; vehicular and pedestrian
circulation facilities; parking facilities; housing densities; open space
disposition; grading; building elevations; public utilities including water,
sanitary sewer, and storm water lines and facilities; landscaping plan;
lighting plan including photometrics; and a surface water plan;
   D.   Grading in plan in conformance with the requirements of City Code Title
9, Chapter 7.
   E.   Architectural plans for all structures including colored elevation
drawings;
   F.   Preliminary and final plat, if applicable;
   G.   Landscape and tree preservation plans as required by City Code Sections
11-3-12 and
11-3-13.
§ 11-12-4: APPROVAL PROCESS:
   The PUD shall be considered at a public hearing pursuant to City Code
Section
11-2-3. Findings for approval must include the following:
   A.   The PUD is consistent with the intent of this Chapter;
   B.   The area surrounding the PUD can be planned and developed in
coordination and substantial compatibility with the proposed PUD;
   C.   Any variation of flexibility from zoning standards most similar in
function to the proposed PUD must produce results equal to or better than those
achieved by the applicable zoning standard.
§ 11-12-5: LAPSE OF APPROVAL:
   Lapse pursuant to City Code Section
11-2-12.
§ 11-12-6: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Amendments to an approved PUD shall be administered by submitting an
application with the appropriate fees as follows:
   B.   Minor Amendments: Minor amendments to a PUD are:
      1.   Size increases to signage approved as part of the PUD;
      2.   Landscape changes;
      3.   Parking lot configuration changes (not change in number of spaces);
      4.   Less than a ten percent (10%) change in floor area in any one (1)
structure;
      5.   Less than a ten percent (10%) change in the approved separation of
buildings;
      6.   Less than five percent (5%) change in the ground area covered by the
project;
      7.   Less than a five percent (5%) change in the number of residential
units; or
      8.   Less than a five percent (5%) change in the number of parking
spaces.
   C.   Major Amendments: Major amendments to a PUD are:
      1.   Any decrease in the amount of approved open space;
      2.   More than a ten percent (10%) change in floor area in any one (1)
structure;
      3.   More than a ten percent (10%) change in the approved separation of
buildings;
      4.   Any change in the original approved setbacks from property lines;
      5.   More than five percent (5%) change in the ground area covered by the
project;
      6.   More than five percent (5%) change in the number of parking spaces;
or
      7.   The introduction of new uses not included in the PUD approval.
   D.   Review of Minor Amendments: Proposed minor amendments to a PUD shall be
reviewed and decided by the Community Development Director. The Community
Development Director may determine that a proposed “minor” amendment is a
“major” amendment and may refer such proposed amendments to the Planning
Commission and City Council according to the procedure established in City Code
Section
11-2-4.
   E.   Review of Major Amendments. Any major amendment to a PUD district shall
be considered by the Planning Commission and City Council pursuant to City Code
Section
11-2-4.
CHAPTER 13: MISSISSIPPI RIVER CORRIDOR CRITICAL AREA OVERLAY DISTRICT
Section
11-13-1: Authority
11-13-2: Purpose And Intent
11-13-3: General Provisions
11-13-4: Definitions
11-13-5: Administration
11-13-6: Overlay Districts
11-13-7: Special Land Use Provisions
11-13-8: Structure Height And Placement And Lot Size
11-13-9: Performance Standards For Private Facilities
11-13-10: Performance Standards For Public Facilities
11-13-11: Vegetation Management
11-13-12: Land Alteration Standards And Stormwater Management
11-13-13: Subdivision And Land Development Standards
11-13-14: Exemptions
§ 11-13-1: AUTHORITY:
   A.   Statutory Authorization. This Mississippi River Corridor Critical Area
(MRCCA) Chapter 13 is adopted pursuant to the authorization and policies
contained in Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 116G, Minnesota Rules Parts 6106.0010
- 6106.0180, and the planning and zoning enabling legislation in Minnesota
Statutes, Chapters 462 and 473.
   B.   Policy. The Legislature of Minnesota has delegated responsibility to
local governments of the state to regulate the subdivision, use and development
of designated critical areas and thus preserve and enhance the quality of
important historic, cultural, aesthetic values, and natural systems and provide
for the wise use of these areas.
§ 11-13-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The purpose and intent of this Chapter to prevent and mitigate
irreversible damage to this unique State, local, regional and national resource
to promote orderly development of the residential, commercial, industrial,
recreational and public areas, to preserve and enhance its values to the public
and protect and preserve the system as an essential element in the City’s
transportation, sewer and water and recreational systems.
   B.   The Mississippi River Corridor shall be managed as a multi-purpose
public resource by continuing use of the river channel for transportation,
continuing use of certain areas for fleeting for river transportation,
conserving the scenic, environmental, recreational, mineral, economic, cultural
and historic resources and functions of the river corridor and providing for
the continuation of development of a variety of urban uses within the river
corridor.
§ 11-13-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Jurisdiction. The provisions of this chapter apply to land within the
river corridor boundary as described in the State Register, volume 43, pages
508 to 519 and shown on the City’s Zoning Map.
   B.   Enforcement. The City is responsible for the administration and
enforcement of this chapter. Any violation of its provisions or failure to
comply with any of its requirements including violations of conditions and
safeguards established in connection with grants of variances or conditional
uses constitutes a misdemeanor and is punishable as defined by law. Violations
of this chapter can occur regardless of whether a permit is or is not required
for a regulated activity listed in Section
11-13-5 (B) of this chapter.
   C.   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is judged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
   D.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. It is not intended by this chapter
to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall prevail. All other chapters inconsistent with
this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
   E.   Underlying Zoning. Uses and standards of underlying zoning districts
apply except where standards of this overlay district are more restrictive.
§ 11-13-4: DEFINITIONS:
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted to give them the same meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application. For the purpose of
this chapter, the words “must” and “shall” are mandatory and not permissive.
All distances, unless otherwise specified, are measured horizontally.
   ACCESS PATH: An area designated to provide ingress and egress to public
waters.
   ADJACENT: Having a boundary that physically touches or adjoins.
   AGRICULTURAL USE: A use having the meaning given under Minnesota Statutes
Section 40A.02.
   ALTERNATIVE DESIGN: Subdivision design methods such as conservation design,
transfer of development density, or similar zoning and site design techniques
that protect open space and natural areas.
   BIOLOGICAL AND ECOLOGICAL FUNCTIONS: The functions of vegetation in
stabilizing soils and slopes, retaining and filtering runoff, providing
habitat, and recharging groundwater.
   BLUFF: A natural topographic feature having:
   A.   A slope that rises at least twenty-five (25) feet and the grade of the
slope averages eighteen percent (18/%) or greater, measured over a horizontal
distance of twenty-five feet (25'), from the toe of the slope to the top of the
slope. Where the slope begins below the OHWL, the OHWL is the toe of the slope.
See Figure 1; or
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3d6c8715b752b002e65b7810d3637762553bea09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1235.png]
 
Figure 1. Bluff and Bluff Impact Zone
   B.   A natural escarpment or cliff with a slope that rises at least ten feet
(10') above the OHWL or toe of the slope, whichever is applicable, to the top
of the slope, with a slope of seventy-five degrees (75º) or greater. See Figure
2.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3d6c8715b752b002e65b7810d3637762553bea09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1237.png]
 
Figure 2. Natural Escarpment Bluff and Bluff Impact Zone
   BLUFF IMPACT ZONE (BIZ): A bluff and land located within twenty feet (20')
of the bluff. See Figures 1 and 2.
   BLUFFLINE: A line delineating the top of the bluff. More than one (1)
bluffline may be encountered proceeding landward from the river. See Figures 1
and 2.
   BLUFF, TOE OF: A line along the bottom of a bluff, requiring field
verification, such that the slope above the line exceeds eighteen percent (18%)
and the slope below the line is eighteen percent (18%) or less, measured over a
horizontal distance of twenty-five feet (25'). See Figures 1 and 2.
   BUILDABLE AREA: The area upon which structures may be placed on a lot or
parcel of land and excludes areas needed to meet requirements for setback,
rights-of-way, bluff impact zones, historic properties, wetlands, designated
floodways, land below the OHWL of public waters, and other unbuildable areas.
   BUILDING: A structure with two (2) or more outside rigid walls and a fully
secured roof and affixed to a permanent site.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE: A document written after a compliance inspection,
certifying that the development complies with applicable requirements at the
time of the inspection.
   COMMISSIONER: The commissioner of the Minnesota Department of Natural
Resources.
   CONDITIONAL USE: A use having the meaning given under Minnesota Statutes,
Chapters 394 and 462.
   CONSERVATION DESIGN: A pattern of subdivision that is characterized by
grouping lots within a portion of a parcel, where the remaining portion of the
parcel is permanently protected as open space.
   DECK: A horizontal, unenclosed, aboveground level structure open to the sky,
with or without attached railings, seats, trellises, or other features,
attached or functionally related to a principal use or site.
   DEVELOPER: Having the meaning given under Minnesota Statutes Section
116G.03.
   DEVELOPMENT: Having the meaning given under Minnesota Statutes Section
116G.03.
   DISCRETIONARY ACTION: An action under this chapter related to land use that
requires a public hearing by local ordinance or statute, such as preliminary
plats, final subdivision plats, Planned Unit Developments, conditional use
permits, interim use permits, variances, appeals, and rezonings.
   DOCK: Having the meaning given under Minnesota Rules, Chapter 6115.
   ELECTRIC POWER FACILITIES: Equipment and associated facilities for
generating electric power or devices for converting wind energy to electrical
energy as identified and defined under Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 216E.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES: Underground or overhead gas, electrical, communications,
steam, or water distribution, collection, supply, or disposal systems,
including storm water. Essential services include poles, wires, mains, drains,
pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, traffic signals, hydrants,
navigational structures, aviation safety facilities or other similar equipment
and accessories in conjunction with the systems. Essential services does not
include buildings, treatment works as defined in Minnesota Statutes Section
115.01, electric power facilities or transmission services.
   FEEDLOT: Having the meaning given for animal feedlots under Minnesota Rules,
Chapter 7020.
   FLOODPLAIN: Having the meaning given the meaning given under Minnesota
Rules, Chapter 6120.
   FULLY RECONSTRUCTS: The reconstruction of an existing impervious surface
that involves site grading and subsurface excavation so that soil is exposed.
Mill and overlay and other resurfacing activities are not considered fully
reconstructed.
   HARD-SURFACE TRAIL: A trail surfaced in asphalt, crushed aggregate, or other
hard surface, for multi-purpose use, as determined by local, regional, or state
agency plans.
   HISTORIC PROPERTY: An archaeological site, standing structure, site,
district, or other property that is:
   A.   Listed in the National Register of Historic Places or the State
Register of Historic Places or locally designated as a historic site under
Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 471;
   B.   determined to meet the criteria for eligibility to the National
Register of Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Places as
determined by the Director of the Minnesota Historical Society; or
   C.   An unplatted cemetery that falls under the provisions of Minnesota
Statutes, Chapter 307, in consultation with the Office of the State
Archaeologist.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: A constructed hard surface that either prevents or
retards the entry of water into the soil and causes water to run off the
surface in greater quantities and at an increased rate of flow than prior to
development. Examples include rooftops, decks, sidewalks, patios, parking lots,
storage areas, and driveways, including those with concrete, asphalt, or gravel
surfaces.
   INTENSIVE VEGETATION CLEARING: The removal of all or a majority of the trees
or shrubs in a contiguous patch, strip, row, or block.
   INTERIM USE: A use having the meaning given under Minnesota Statutes,
Chapters 394 and 462.
   LAND ALTERATION: An activity that exposes the soil or changes the
topography, drainage, or cross section of the land, excluding gardening or
similar minor soil disturbances.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT: Counties, cities, and townships.
   LOT: Having the meaning given under Minnesota Rules, Chapter 6120.
   LOT WIDTH: The shortest distance between lot lines measured at both the OHWL
and at the required structure setback from the OHWL. See Figure 3.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3d6c8715b752b002e65b7810d3637762553bea09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1239.png]
 
Figure 3. Lot Width
   MARINA: Having the meaning given under Minnesota Rules, Chapter 6115.
   MISSISSIPPI RIVER CORRIDOR CRITICAL AREA (MRCCA): The area within the River
Corridor Boundary (See critical area boundary on City’s Zoning Map).
   MISSISSIPPI RIVER CORRIDOR CRITICAL AREA (MRCCA) PLAN: A chapter or other
element in the City’s Comprehensive Plan.
   MOORING FACILITY: Having the meaning given under Minnesota Rules Part
6115.0170.
   NATIVE PLANT COMMUNITY: A plant community identified by the Minnesota
Biological Survey or biological survey issued or adopted by a local, state, or
federal agency.
   NATURAL-SURFACE TRAIL: A trail composed of native soil and rock or compacted
granular stone, primarily intended for hiking, equestrian, or mountain bike
use, as determined by local, regional, or state agency plans.
   NATURAL VEGETATION: Any combination of ground cover, understory, and tree
canopy that, while it may have been altered by human activity, continues to
stabilize soils, retain and filter runoff, provide habitat, and recharge
groundwater.
   NONMETALLIC MINING: Construction, reconstruction, repair, relocation,
expansion, or removal of any facility for the extraction, stockpiling, storage,
disposal, or reclamation of nonmetallic minerals such a stone, sand, and
gravel. Nonmetallic mining does not include ancillary facilities such as access
roads, bridges, culverts, and water level control structures. For purposes of
this subpart, “facility” includes all mine pits, quarries, stockpiles, basins,
processing structures and equipment, and any structures that drain or divert
public waters to allow mining.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL (OHWL): Having the meaning given under Minnesota
Statutes Section 103G.005.
   OVERLAY DISTRICT: A zoning district applied over one (1) or more previously
established zoning districts, establishing additional or stricter standards and
criteria for covered properties in addition to those of the underlying zoning
district. OVERLAY DISTRICTS are often used to protect historic features and
natural resources such as shoreland or floodplain.
   PARCEL: Having the meaning given under Minnesota Statutes Section 116G.03.
   PATIO: A constructed hard surface located at ground level with no railings
and open to the sky.
   PICNIC SHELTER: A roofed structure open on all sides, accessory to a
recreational use.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): A method of land development that merges
zoning and subdivision controls, allowing developers to plan and develop a
large area as a single entity, characterized by a unified site design, a mix of
structure types and land uses, and phasing of development over a number of
years. Planned Unit Development includes any conversion of existing structures
and land uses that utilize this method of development.
   PLAT: Having the meaning given under Minnesota Statutes, Chapters 505 and
515B.
   PORT: A water transportation complex established and operated under the
jurisdiction of a port authority according to Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 458.
   PRIMARY CONSERVATION AREAS: Key resources and features, including shore
impact zones, bluff impact zones, floodplains, wetlands, gorges, areas of
confluence with tributaries, natural drainage routes, unstable soils and
bedrock, native plant communities, cultural and historic properties, and
significant existing vegetative stands, tree canopies, and other resources
identified in local government plans.
   PRIVATE FACILITIES: Private roads, driveways, and parking areas, private
water access and viewing facilities, decks and patios in setback areas, and
private signs.
   PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER: An engineer licensed to practice in Minnesota.
   PUBLIC FACILITIES: Public utilities, public transportation facilities, and
public recreational facilities.
   PUBLIC RECREATION FACILITIES: Recreational facilities provided by the state
or a local government and dedicated to public use, including parks, scenic
overlooks, observation platforms, trails, docks, fishing piers, picnic
shelters, water access ramps, and other similar water-oriented public
facilities used for recreation.
   PUBLIC RIVER CORRIDOR VIEWS: Views toward the river from public parkland,
historic properties, and public overlooks, as well as views toward bluffs from
the ordinary high-water level of the opposite shore, as seen during the summer
months and documented in the MRCCA plan/chapter of the Comprehensive Plan.
   PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES: All transportation facilities provided by
federal, state, or local government and dedicated to public use, such as
roadways, transit facilities, railroads, and bikeways.
   PUBLIC UTILITIES: Electric power facilities, essential services, and
transmission services.
   PUBLIC WATERS: Having the meaning given under Minnesota Statutes Section
103G.005.
   READILY VISIBLE: Land and development that are easily seen from the ordinary
high-water level of the opposite shore during summer months.
   RESOURCE AGENCY: A Federal, state, regional, or local agency that engages in
environmental, natural, or cultural resource protection or restoration
activities, including planning, implementation, and monitoring.
   RETAINING WALL: A vertical or nearly vertical structures constructed of
mortar and rubble masonry, rock, or stone regardless of size, vertical timber
pilings, horizontal timber planks with piling supports, sheet pilings, poured
concrete, concrete blocks, or other durable materials.
   RIVER CORRIDOR BOUNDARY: The boundary approved and adopted by the
Metropolitan Council under Minnesota Statutes Section 116G.06, as approved and
adopted by the legislature in Minnesota Statutes Section 116G.15, and as
legally described in the State Register, volume 43, pages 508 to 518.
   RIVER-DEPENDENT USE: The use of land for commercial, industrial, or utility
purposes, where access to and use of a public water feature is an integral part
of the normal conduct of business and where the use is dependent on shoreline
facilities.
   ROCK RIPRAP: Natural coarse rock placed or constructed to armor shorelines,
streambeds, bridge abutments, pilings and other shoreline structures against
scour, or water or ice erosion.
   SELECTIVE VEGETATION REMOVAL: The removal of isolated individual trees or
shrubs that are not in a contiguous patch, strip, row, or block and that does
not substantially reduce the tree canopy or understory cover.
   SETBACK: A separation distance measured horizontally.
   SHORE IMPACT ZONE (SIZ): Land located between the ordinary high-water level
of public waters and a line parallel to it at a setback of fifty percent (50%)
of the required structure setback or, for agricultural use, fifty feet (50')
landward of the OHWL. See Figure 4.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3d6c8715b752b002e65b7810d3637762553bea09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1241.png]
 
Figure 4. Shore Impact Zone
   SHORELINE FACILITIES: Facilities that require a location adjoining public
waters for ingress and egress, loading and unloading, and public water intake
and outflow, such as barge facilities, port facilities, commodity loading and
unloading equipment, watercraft lifts, marinas, short-term watercraft mooring
facilities for patrons, and water access ramps. Structures that would be
enhanced by a shoreline location, but do not require a location adjoining
public waters as part of their function, are not shoreline facilities, such as
restaurants, bait shops, and boat dealerships.
   STEEP SLOPE: A natural topographic feature with an average slope of twelve
percent (12%) to eighteen percent (18%), measured over a horizontal distance
equal to or greater than fifty feet (50'), and any slopes greater than eighteen
percent (18%) that are not bluffs.
   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT FACILITIES: Facilities for the collection,
conveyance, treatment, or disposal of storm water.
   STRUCTURE: A building, sign, or appurtenance thereto, except for aerial or
underground utility lines, such as sewer, electric, telephone, or gas lines,
and utility line towers, poles, and other supporting appurtenances.
   SUBDIVISION: Having the meaning given under Minnesota Statutes Section
462.352.
   SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM: Having the meaning given under Minnesota
Rules Part 7080.1100.
   TRANSMISSION SERVICES:
   A.   Electric power lines, cables, pipelines, or conduits that are:
      1.   Used to transport power between two (2) points, as identified and
defined under Minnesota Statutes Section 216E.01, subdivision 4; or
      2.   For mains or pipelines for gas, liquids, or solids in suspension,
used to transport gas, liquids, or solids in suspension between two (2) points;
and
   B.   Telecommunication lines, cables, pipelines, or conduits.
   TREELINE: The more or less continuous line formed by the tops of trees in a
wooded area when viewed from a particular point. The treeline is determined
during all seasons as if under full foliage.
   VARIANCE: Having the meaning given under Minnesota Statutes Section 394.22.
   WATER ACCESS RAMP: A boat ramp, carry-down site, boarding dock, and approach
road, or other access that allows launching and removal of a boat, canoe, or
other watercraft with or without a vehicle and trailer.
   WATER-ORIENTED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A small building or other improvement,
except stairways, fences, docks, and retaining walls, that, because of the
relationship of its use to public waters, needs to be located closer to public
waters than the normal structure setback. Examples include gazebos, screen
houses, fish houses, pump houses, and detached decks and patios.
   WATER QUALITY IMPACT ZONE: Land within the shore impact zone or within fifty
feet (50') of the OHWL of the river, whichever is greater, and land within
fifty feet (50') of a public water, wetland, or natural drainage route.
   WETLAND: Having the meaning given under Minnesota Statutes Section 103G.005.
§ 11-13-5: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to identify administrative
provisions to ensure this chapter is administered consistent with its purpose.
   B.   Permits. A permit is required for the construction of buildings or
building additions (including construction of decks and signs), the
installation and/or alteration of sewage treatment systems, vegetation removal
consistent with Section
11-13-11 and land alterations consistent with Section
11-13-12.
   C.   Variances. Variances to the requirements under this chapter may only be
granted in accordance with Minnesota Statutes Section 462.357 and must consider
the potential impacts of variances on primary conservation areas, public river
corridor views, and other resources identified in the MRCCA plan. In reviewing
the variance application, the City shall evaluate the impacts to these
resources. If negative impacts are found, require conditions to mitigate the
impacts that are related to and proportional to the impacts, consistent with
Section
11-13-5(E) and
11-2-7. Make written findings that the variance is consistent with the purposed
of this chapter.
   D.   Conditional and interim use permits. All conditional and interim uses,
required under this chapter, must comply with Minnesota Statutes Section
462.3595 and must consider the potential impacts on primary conservation areas,
public river corridor views, and other resources identified in the MRCCA plan.
In reviewing the application, the City shall evaluate the impacts to these
resources and if negative impacts are found, require conditions to mitigate the
impacts that are related to and proportional to the impacts, consistent with
Section
11-13-5 (E) and
11-2-9.
   E.   Conditions of Approval. The City shall evaluate the impacts to primary
conservation areas, public river corridor views, and other resources identified
in the MRCCA Plan, and if negative impacts are found, require conditions to
mitigate the impacts that are related to and proportional to the impacts.
Mitigation may include:
      1.   Restoration of vegetation identified as “vegetation restoration
priorities” identified in the MRCCA plan.
      2.   Preservation of existing vegetation;
      3.   Stormwater runoff management;
      4.   Reducing impervious surface;
      5.   Increasing structure setbacks;
      6.   Wetland and drainage route restoration and/or preservation;
      7.   Limiting the height of structures;
      8.   Modifying structure design to limit visual impacts on public river
corridor views; and
      9.   Other conservation measures.
   F.   Application materials. Applications for permits and discretionary
actions required under this chapter must submit the following information
unless the City determines that the information is not needed.
      1.   A detailed project description; and
      2.   Scaled maps and plans, dimensional renderings, maintenance
agreements, and other materials that identify and describe:
         a.   Primary conservation areas;
         b.   Public river corridor views;
         c.   Buildable area;
         d.   Existing and proposed topography and drainage patterns;
         e.   Proposed storm water and erosion and sediment control practices;
         f.   Existing and proposed vegetation to be removed and established;
         g.   Ordinary high water level, blufflines, and all required setbacks;
         h.   Existing and proposed structures;
         i.   Existing and proposed impervious surfaces; and
         j.   Existing and proposed subsurface sewage treatment systems.
   G.   Nonconformities.
      1,   All legally established nonconformities as of the date of this
ordinance may continue consistent with Minnesota Statutes Section 462.357,
subdivision 1e.
      2.   New structures erected in conformance with the setback averaging
provisions of Section
11-13-8(E)(4) are conforming structures.
      3.   Site alterations and expansion of site alterations that were legally
made prior to the effective date of this ordinance are conforming. Site
alterations include vegetation, erosion control, storm water control measures,
and other nonstructural site improvements.
      4.   Legally nonconforming principal structures that do not meet the
setback requirements of Section
11-13-8 may be expanded laterally provided that:
         a.   The expansion does not extend into the shore or bluff impact zone
or further into the required setback than the building line of the existing
principal structure (See Figure 5); and
         b.   The expanded structure’s scale and bulk is consistent with that
of the original structure and existing surrounding development.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3d6c8715b752b002e65b7810d3637762553bea09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1243.png]
 
Figure 5. Expansion of Nonconforming Structure
   H.   Notifications.
      1.   Amendments to this chapter and to the MRCCA plan must be submitted
to the Commissioner as provided in Minnesota Rules Part 6106.0070, subpart 3,
items B - I.
      2.   Notice of public hearings for discretionary actions, including
conditional and interim use permits, variances, appeals, rezonings, preliminary
plats, final subdivision plats, master plans, and PUDs, must be sent to the
following entities at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing:
         a.   The Commissioner in a format prescribed by the DNR;
         b.   National Park Service; and
         c.   Where building heights exceed the height limits specified in
Section
11-13-8(B) as part of the conditional use or variance process, adjoining local
governments within the MRCCA, including those with overlapping jurisdiction and
those across the river.
      3.   Notice of final decisions for actions stated in this section,
including findings of fact, must be sent to the Commissioner, the National Park
Service, and adjoining local governments within the MRCCA within ten (10) days
of the final decision.
      4.   Requests to amend district boundaries must follow the provisions in
Minnesota Rules Part 6106.0100, subpart 9, Item C.
      5.   The DNR will be notified at time of application submittal of master
plans, PUDs, preliminary, and final plats.
   I.    Accommodating disabilities. Reasonable accommodations for ramps or
other facilities to provide persons with disabilities access to the persons’
property, as required by the federal Americans with Disabilities Act and the
federal Fair Housing Act and as provided by Minnesota Rules, Chapter 1341,
must:
      1.   Comply with Sections
11-13-8 to
11-13-14; or
      2.   If Sections
11-13-8 to
11-13-14 cannot be complied with, ramps or other facilities are allowed with an
administrative permit provided:
         a.   The permit terminates on either a specific date or upon
occurrence of a particular event related to the person requiring accommodation;
and
         b.   Upon expiration of the permit, the ramp or other facilities must
be removed.
§ 11-13-6: OVERLAY DISTRICTS:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to establish districts under
which building height and structure placement are regulated to protect and
enhance the Mississippi River’s resources and features consistent with the
natural and built character of each district.
   B.   District description and management purpose. The MRCCA within the city
is divided into the following MRCCA Districts:
      1.   River Neighborhood (RN).
         a.   Description. The RN District is characterized by primarily
residential neighborhoods that are riparian or readily visible from the river
or that abut riparian parkland. The district includes parks and open space,
limited commercial development, marinas, and related land uses.
         b.   Management purpose. The RN District must be managed to maintain
the character of the river corridor within the context of existing residential
and related neighborhood development, and to protect and enhance habitat, parks
and open space, public river corridor views, and scenic, natural, and historic
areas. Minimizing erosion and the flow of untreated storm water into the river
and enhancing habitat and shoreline vegetation are priorities in the district.
      2.   Rural and Open Space (ROS).
         a.   Description. The ROS District is characterized by rural and low-
density development patterns and land uses, and includes land that is riparian
or visible from the river, as well as large, undeveloped tracts of high
ecological and scenic value, floodplain, and undeveloped islands. Many primary
conservation areas exist in the district.
         b.   Management purpose. The ROS District must be managed to sustain
and restore the rural and natural character of the corridor and to protect and
enhance habitat, parks and open space, public river corridor views, and scenic,
natural, and historic areas.
      3.   Separated from River (SR).
         a.   Description. The SR District is characterized by its physical and
visual distance from the Mississippi River. The district includes land
separated from the river by distance, topography, development, or a
transportation corridor. The land in this district is not readily visible from
the Mississippi River.
         b.   Management purpose. The SR district provides flexibility in
managing development without negatively affecting the key resources and
features of the river corridor. Minimizing negative impacts to primary
conservation areas and minimizing erosion and flow of untreated storm water
into the Mississippi River are priorities in the district. The RTC district
must be managed in a manner that allows continued growth and redevelopment in
historic downtowns and more intensive redevelopment in limited areas at river
crossings to accommodate compact walkable development patterns and connections
to the river. Minimizing erosion and the flow of untreated storm water into the
river, providing public access to and public views of the river, and restoring
natural vegetation in riparian areas and tree canopy are priorities in the
district.
      4.   Urban Mixed (UM).
         a.   Description. The UM District includes large areas of highly
urbanized mixed use that are a part of the urban fabric of the river corridor,
including institutional, commercial, industrial, and residential areas and
parks and open space.
         b.   Management purpose. The UM District must be managed in a manner
that allows for future growth and potential transition of intensely developed
areas that does not negatively affect public river corridor views and that
protects bluffs and floodplains. Restoring and enhancing bluff and shoreline
habitat, minimizing erosion and flow of untreated storm water into the river,
and providing public access to and public views of the river are priorities in
the district.
   C.   MRCCA district map. The locations and boundaries of the MRCCA districts
established by this chapter are shown on MRCCA Overlay District map which is
incorporated herein by reference. The district boundary lines are intended to
follow the centerlines of rivers and streams, highways, streets, lot lines, and
municipal boundaries, unless a boundary line is otherwise indicated on the map.
Where district boundaries cross unsubdivided property, the district boundary
line is determined by use of dimensions or the scale appearing on the map.
§ 11-13-7: SPECIAL LAND USE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose. To identify development standards and considerations for land
uses that have potential to negatively impact primary conservation areas and
public river corridor views.
   B.   Underlying zoning. Uses within the MRCCA are generally determined by
underlying zoning, with additional provisions for the following land uses:
      1.   Agricultural uses. Perennial ground cover is required within fifty
feet (50') of the OHWL and within the bluff impact zone.
      2.   Feedlots. New animal feedlots and manure storage areas are
prohibited. Existing animal feedlots and manure storage areas must conform with
Minnesota Rules, Chapter 7020.
      3.   Forestry. Tree harvesting and biomass harvesting within woodlands,
and associated reforestation.
      4.   Nonmetallic mining. Nonmetallic mining requires a conditional use
permit or interim use permit issued by the local government, subject to the
following:
         a.   New nonmetallic mining is prohibited within the shore impact zone
and bluff impact zone and within the required structure setback from the
bluffline and OHWL;
         b.   Processing machinery must be located consistent with setback
standards for structures as provided in Section
11-13-8(E);
         c.   Only one (1) barge loading area, which must be limited to the
minimum size practicable, is permitted for each mining operation;
         d.   New and, where practicable, existing nonmetallic mining
operations must not be readily visible and must be screened by establishing and
maintaining natural vegetation. The unscreened boundaries of nonmetallic mining
areas are limited to only the barge loading area;
         e.   A site management plan must be developed by the operator and
approved by the local government before new nonmetallic mining commences.
Operations must be consistent with the site plan throughout the duration of
operations at the site. The site management plan must:
            (1)   Describe how the site will be developed over time with an
emphasis on minimizing environmental risk to public waters;
            (2)   Explain where staged reclamation may occur at certain points
during the life of the site;
            (3)   Address dust, noise, storm water management, possible
pollutant discharges, days and hours of operation, and duration of operations;
and
            (4)   Describe any anticipated vegetation and topographic
alterations outside the pit, and reclamation plans consistent with the stated
end use for the land; and;
         f.   Existing and new nonmetallic mining operations must submit land
reclamation plans to the local government compatible with the purposes of this
ordinance.
      5.   Commercial and industrial facilities. Expansion of existing
facilities only when they can be served by existing public or private sewerage,
water and transportation facilities, and where the expansion has been
determined to have no impact on regional systems.
   C.   River-dependent uses. River-dependent uses must comply with the
following design standards:
      1.   Structures and parking areas, except shoreline facilities and
private roads and conveyances serving river-dependent uses as provided in
Section
11-13-14, must meet the dimensional and performance standards in this chapter
must be designed so that they are not readily visible, and must be screened by
establishing and maintaining natural vegetation;
      2.   Shoreline facilities must comply with Minnesota Rules, Chapter 6115
and must:
         a.   Be designed in a compact fashion so as to minimize the shoreline
area affected; and
         b.   Minimize the surface area of land occupied in relation to the
number of watercraft or barges to be served; and
         c.   Dredging and placement of dredged material are subject to
existing federal and state permit requirements and agreements.
   D.   Wireless communication towers. Wireless communication towers require a
conditional or interim use permit and are subject to the following design
standards:
      1.   The applicant must demonstrate that functional coverage cannot be
provided through co-location, a tower at a lower height, or a tower at a
location outside of the MRCCA’
      2.   The tower must not be located in a bluff or shore impact zone’
      3.   Placement of the tower must minimize impacts on public river
corridor views.
      4.   Comply with the general design standards in Section
11-13-10(B). In addition, small wireless facilities must also comply with the
design standards in City Code Section
7-6-11(C). If there are any inconsistencies, the stricter provision shall
apply.
§ 11-13-8: STRUCTURE HEIGHT AND PLACEMENT AND LOT SIZE:
   A.   Purpose. To establish standards that protect primary conservation areas
and public river corridor views from development impacts and ensure that new
development is sited consistent with the purpose of the MRCCA.
   B.   Structure height. Structures and facilities must comply with the
following standards unless identified as exempt in Section
11-13-14.
      1.   Structures and facilities must comply with the following standards
unless identified as exempt in Section
11-13-14.
         a.   ROS District: thirty-five feet (35').
         b.   RN District: thirty-five feet (35').
         c.   SR District: Height is determined by underlying zoning, provided
the allowed height is consistent with that of the mature treeline, where
present, and existing surrounding development, as viewed from the OWHL of the
opposite shore.
         d.   UM District: sixty feet (60'), provided tiering of structures
away from the Mississippi River and from blufflines is given priority, with
lower structure heights closer to the river and blufflines, and that structure
design and placement minimize interference with public river corridor views.
Structures over sixty feet (60') are allowed as a conditional use according to
Sections
11-4-5 and
11-13-8 (D).
   C.   Height is measured on the side of the structure facing the Mississippi
River.
   D.   In addition to the conditional use permit requirements of Section
11-13-5 (D), criteria for considering whether to grant a conditional use permit
for structures exceeding the height limits must include:
      1.   Assessment of the visual impact of the proposed structure on public
river corridor views, including views from other communities;
      2.   Determination that the proposed structure meets the required bluff
and OHWL setbacks;
      3.   Identification and application of techniques to minimize the
perceived bulk of the proposed structure, such as:
         a.   Placing the long axis of the building perpendicular to the river;
         b.   Stepping back of portions of the facade;
         c.   Lowering the roof pitch or use of a flat roof;
         d.   Using building materials or mitigation techniques that will blend
in with the natural surroundings such as green roofs, green walls, or other
green and brown building materials;
         e.   Narrowing the profile of upper floors of the building; or
         f.   Increasing the setbacks of the building from the Mississippi
River or blufflines;
      4.   Identification of techniques for preservation of those view
corridors identified in the MRCCA Plan; and
      5.   Opportunities for creation or enhancement of public river corridor
views.
   E.   Structure and impervious surface placement.
      1.   Structures and impervious surface must not be placed in the shore or
bluff impact zones unless identified as an exemption in Section
11-13-14.
      2.   Structures and facilities must comply with the following OHWL
setback provisions unless identified as exempt in Section
11-13-14.
         a.   ROS District: two hundred feet (200') from the Mississippi River.
         b.   RN District: one hundred feet (100') from the Mississippi River.
         c.   SR District: fifty feet (50') or as specified in underlying
zoning.
         d.   UM District: fifty feet (50') from the Mississippi River.
      3.   Structures and facilities must comply with the following bluffline
setback provisions unless identified as exempt in Section
11-13-14:
         a.   ROS District: one hundred feet (100').
         b.   RN District: forty feet (40').
         c.   SR District: forty feet (40').
         d.   UM District: forty feet (40').
      4.   Where principal structures exist on the adjoining lots on both sides
of a proposed building site, the minimum setback may be altered to conform to
the average of the adjoining setbacks, if the new structure’s scale and bulk
riverward or bluffward of the setbacks required above are consistent with
adjoining development. See Figure 6. The City may consider the setbacks of
additional structures on nearby lots in determining the average setbacks if
needed, for example for corner lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3d6c8715b752b002e65b7810d3637762553bea09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1245.png]
 
Figure 6. Structure Setback Averaging
      5.   Subsurface sewage treatment systems, including the septic tank and
absorption area, must be located at least seventy-five feet (75') from the
ordinary high-water level of the Mississippi River and all other public waters.
   F.   Lot size and buildable area.
      1.   The width of lots abutting the Mississippi River in the ROS District
must be at least two hundred feet (200'), unless alternative design methods are
used that provide greater protection of the riparian area.
      2.   All new lots must have adequate buildable area to comply with the
setback requirements of this section 11-13-8(E)2 and 3 to not require variances
to use the lots for their intended purpose.
§ 11-13-9: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR PRIVATE FACILITIES:
   A.   Purpose. To establish design standards for private facilities that are
consistent with best management practices and that minimize impacts to primary
conservation areas, public river corridor views and other resources identified
in the MRCCA plan.
   B.   General design standards. All private facilities must be developed in
accordance with the vegetation management and land alteration requirements in
Sections
11-13-11 and
11-13-12.
   C.   Private roads, driveways, and parking areas. Except as provided in
Section
11-13-14, private roads, driveways and parking areas must:
      1.   Be designed to take advantage of natural vegetation and topography
so that they are not readily visible;
      2.   Comply with structure setback requirements according to Section
11-13-8(E); and
      3.   Not be placed within the bluff impact zone or shore impact zone,
unless exempt under Section
11-13-14 and designed consistent with Section
11-13-10(B).
   D.   Private water access and viewing facilities.
      1.   Private access paths must be no more than:
         a.   Eight feet (8') wide, if placed within the shore impact zone; and
         b.   Four feet (4') wide, if placed within the bluff impact zone.
      2.   Private water access ramps must:
         a.   Comply with Minnesota Rules Parts 6115.0210 and 6280.0250; and
         b.   Be designed and constructed consistent with the applicable
standards in Design Handbook for Recreational Boating and Fishing Facilities.
      3.   Design and construction of private stairways, lifts, and landings
are subject to the following standards:
         a.   Stairways and lifts must not exceed four feet (4') in width on
residential lots. Wider stairways may be used for commercial properties and
residential facilities held in common, if approved by the City;
         b.   Landings for stairways and lifts on residential lots must not
exceed thirty-two (32) square feet in area. Landings larger than thirty-two
(32) square feet area allowed for commercial properties and residential
facilities held in common, if approved by the City;
         c.   Canopies or roofs are prohibited on stairways, lifts, or
landings;
         d.   Stairways, lifts, and landings must be located in the least
visible portion of the lot whenever practical; and
         e.   Ramps, lifts, mobility paths, or other facilities for persons
with physical disabilities are allowed for achieving access to shore areas
according to items A-E of this section and as provided under Section
11-13-5(I).
      4.   One water-oriented accessory structure is allowed for each riparian
lot or parcel less than three hundred feet (300') in width at the ordinary
high-water level, with one (1) additional water-oriented accessory structure
allowed for each additional three hundred feet (300') of shoreline on the same
lot or parcel. Water-oriented accessory structures are prohibited in the bluff
impact zone and must:
         a.   Not exceed twelve feet (12') in height;
         b.   Not exceed one hundred and twenty (120) square feet in area; and
         c.   Be placed a minimum of ten feet (10') from the OHWL.
   E.   Decks and patios in setback areas. Decks and at-grade patios may
encroach into the required setbacks from the OHWL and blufflines without a
variance, when consistent with Sections
11-13-11 and
11-13-12, provided that:
      1.   The encroachment of the deck or patio into the required setback area
does not exceed 15 percent of the required structure setback;
      2.   The area of the deck or patio that extends into the required setback
area occupies no more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the total area between
the required setback and the fifteen percent (15%) using the formula:
         [Required setback depth (feet) x 0.15 x lot width (feet) = maximum
total area]
      3.   The deck or patio does not extend into the bluff impact zone. See
Figure 7.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3d6c8715b752b002e65b7810d3637762553bea09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1247.png]
 
   Figure 7. Deck and Patio Encroachment
   F.   Directional signs. Directional signs for patrons arriving at a business
by watercraft must comply with the following standards:
      1.   They must be consistent with Minnesota Statutes Section 86B.115.
      2.   Only convey the location and name of the establishment and the
general types of goods and services available, if located in a shore impact
zone.
      3.   Be no greater than ten feet (10') in height and thirty-two (32)
square feet in surface area; and
      4.   If illuminated, the lighting must be fully shielded and directed
downward to prevent illumination out across the river or to the sky.
   G.   Fences. Fences between principal structures and the river are allowed
if fences are:
      1.   Not higher than six feet (6').
      2.   Not located within the shore impact zone and bluff impact zone.
      3.   Not located in the regulatory floodplain.
   H.   Lighting. Within the OHWL setback:
      1.   Lighting shall be fully shielded and directed away from the river.
      2.   Uplighting is prohibited.
§ 11-13-10: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR PUBLIC FACILITIES:
   A.   Purpose. To establish design standards for public facilities that are
consistent with best management practices and that minimize impacts to primary
conservation areas, public river corridor views and other resources identified
in the MRCCA plan. Public facilities serve the public interest by providing
public access to the Mississippi River corridor or require locations in or
adjacent to the river corridor and therefore require some degree of
flexibility.
   B.   General design standards. All public facilities must be designed and
constructed to:
      1.   Minimize visibility of the facility from the river to the extent
consistent with the purpose of the facility;
      2.   Comply with the structure placement and height standards in Section
11-13-8, except as provided in Section
11-13-14;
      3.   Be consistent with the vegetation management standards in Section
11-13-11 and the land alteration and storm water management standards in
Section
11-13-12, including use of practices identified in Best Practices for Meeting
DNR General Public Waters Work Permit GP 2004-0001, where applicable;
      4.   Avoid primary conservation areas, unless no alternative exists. If
no alternative exists, then disturbance to primary conservation areas must be
avoided to the greatest extent practicable, and design and construction must
minimize impacts; and
      5.   Minimize disturbance of spawning and nesting times by scheduling
construction at times when local fish and wildlife are not spawning or nesting.
      6.   Minimize disturbance during bird migration and nesting times by
scheduling construction at times when birds are not migrating or nesting.
   C.   Right-of-way maintenance standards. Right-of-way maintenance must
comply with the following standards:
      1.   Vegetation currently in a natural state must be maintained to the
extent feasible;
      2.   Where vegetation in a natural state has been removed, native plants
must be planted and maintained on the right-of-way; and
      3.   Chemical control of vegetation must be avoided when practicable, but
when chemical control is necessary, chemicals used must be in accordance with
the regulations and other requirements of all state and federal agencies with
authority over the chemical’s use.
   D.   Crossings of public water or public land. Crossings of public waters or
land controlled by the commissioner are subject to approval by the commissioner
according to Minnesota Statutes Sections 84.415 and 103G.245.
   E.   Public utilities. Public utilities must comply with the following
standards:
      1.   High-voltage transmission lines, wind energy conversion systems
greater than five (5) megawatts, and pipelines are regulated according to
Minnesota Statutes, Chapters 216E, 216F, and 216G respectively; and
      2.   If overhead placement is necessary, utility facility crossings must
minimize visibility of the facility from the river and follow other existing
rights of way as much as practicable.
      3.   The appearance of structures must be as compatible as practicable
with the surrounding area in a natural state with regard to height and width,
materials used, and color.
      4.   Wireless communication facilities, according to Section
11-13-7 (D).
   F.   Public transportation facilities. Public transportation facilities
shall comply with structure placement and height standards in Section
11-13-8. Where such facilities intersect or about two (2) or more MRCCA
districts, the least restrictive standards apply. Public transportation
facilities must be designed and constructed to give priority to:
      1.   Providing scenic overlooks for motorists, bicyclists, and
pedestrians;
      2.   Providing safe pedestrian crossings and facilities along the river
corridor;
      3.   Providing access to the riverfront in public ownership; and
      4.   Allowing for use of the land between the river and the
transportation facility.
   G.   Public recreational facilities. Public recreational facilities must
comply with the following standards:
      1.   Buildings and parking associated with public recreational facilities
must comply with the structure placement and height standards in Section
11-13-8, except as provided in Section
11-13-14;
      2.   Roads and driveways associated with public recreational facilities
must not be placed in the bluff or shore impact zones unless no other placement
alternative exists. If no alternative exists, then design and construction must
minimize impacts to shoreline vegetation, erodible soils and slopes, and other
sensitive resources.
      3.   Trails, access paths, and viewing areas associated with public
recreational facilities and providing access to or views of the Mississippi
River are allowed within the bluff and shore impact zones if design,
construction, and maintenance methods are consistent with the best management
practice guidelines in Trail Planning, Design, and Development Guidelines.
         a.   Hard-surface trails are not allowed on the face of bluffs with a
slope exceeding thirty percent (30%). Natural surface trails are allowed,
provided they do not exceed eight feet (8') in width.
         b.   Trails, paths, and viewing areas must be designed and constructed
to minimize:
            (1)   Visibility from the river;
            (2)   Visual impacts on public river corridor views; and
            (3)   Disturbance to and fragmentation of primary conservation
areas.
      4.   Public water access facilities must comply with the following
requirements:
         a.   Watercraft access ramps must comply with Minnesota Rules,
Chapters 6115.0210 and 6280.0250; and
         b.   Facilities must be designed and constructed consistent with the
standards in Design Handbook for Recreational Boating and Fishing Facilities.
      5.   Public signs and kiosks for interpretive or directional purposes are
allowed in the bluff or shore impact zones, provided they are placed and
constructed to minimize disturbance to these areas and avoid visual impacts on
public river corridor views. If illuminated, the lighting must be fully
shielded and be directed downward.
      6.   Public stairways, lifts, and landings must be designed as provided
in Section
11-13-9(D)(3).
§ 11-13-11: VEGETATION MANAGEMENT:
   A.   Purpose. To establish standards that sustain and enhance the biological
and ecological functions of vegetation; preserve the natural character and
topography of the MRCCA; and maintain stability of bluffs and steep slopes and
ensure stability of other erosion-prone areas.
   B.   Applicability. This section applies to:
      1.   Shore impact zones;
      2.   Areas within fifty feet (50') of a wetland or natural drainage
route;
      3.   Bluff impact zones;
      4.   Areas of native plant communities; and
      5.   Significant existing vegetative stands identified in the MRCCA plan.
   C.   Activities allowed without a vegetation permit.
      1.   Maintenance of existing lawns, landscaping and gardens;
      2.   Removal of vegetation in emergency situations as determined by the
City;
      3.   Right-of-way maintenance for public facilities meeting the standards
Section
11-13-10(C);
      4.   Agricultural and forestry activities meeting the standards of
Sections
11-13-7(B)1 and 3;
      5.   Selective vegetation removal, provided that vegetative cover remains
consistent with the management purpose of the MRCCA District, including removal
of:
         a.   Vegetation that is dead, diseased, dying, or hazardous;
         b.   Vegetation to prevent the spread of diseases or insect pests;
         c.   Individual trees and shrubs; and
         d.   Invasive non-native species.
   D.   Activities allowed with a vegetation permit.
      1.   Only the following intensive vegetation clearing activities are
allowed with a vegetation permit:
         a.   Clearing of vegetation that is dead, diseased, dying, or
hazardous;
         b.   Clearing to prevent the spread of diseases or insect pests;
         c.   Clearing to remove invasive non-native species.
         d.   Clearing to prepare for restoration and erosion control
management activities consistent with a plan approved by the City.
         e.   The minimum necessary for development that is allowed with a
building permit or as an exemption under Section
11-13-14.
      2.   General Performance Standards. The following standards must be met,
in addition to a restoration plan under Section
11-13-11(F), in order to approve a vegetation permit:
         a.   Development is sited to minimize removal of or disturbance to
natural vegetation;
         b.   Soil, slope stability, and hydrologic conditions are suitable for
the proposed work as determined by a City Engineer;
         c.   Clearing is the minimum necessary and designed to blend with the
natural terrain and minimize visual impacts to public river corridor views and
other scenic views;
         d.   Vegetation removal activities are conducted so as to expose the
smallest practical area of soil to erosion for the least possible time, and to
avoid bird migration and nesting seasons; and
         e.   Any other condition determined necessary to achieve the purpose
of this section.
   E.   Prohibited activities. All other intensive vegetation clearing is
prohibited.
   F.   Vegetation restoration plan.
      1.   Development of a vegetation restoration plan and reestablishment of
natural vegetation is required:
         a.   For any vegetation removed with a permit under Section
11-13-11(D);
         b.   Upon failure to comply with any provisions in this section; or
         c.   As part of the planning process for subdivisions as provided in
Section
11-13-13.
      2.   Restoration Plan Performance Standards. The vegetation restoration
plan must satisfy the application submittal requirements in
11-13-5(F), and:
         a.   Vegetation must be restored in one (1) or more of the following
restoration priority areas:
            (1)   Areas with soils showing signs of erosion, especially on or
near the top and bottom of steep slopes and bluffs;
            (2)   Shoreline areas within twenty-five feet (25') of the water
with no natural vegetation, degraded vegetation, or planted with turf grass;
            (3)   Areas on steep slopes and bluffs that are visible from the
river with no natural vegetation, degraded vegetation, or planted with turf
grass; or
            (4)   Other approved priority opportunity area, including
priorities identified in the MRCCA plan, if none of the above exist.
         b.   Include vegetation that provides suitable habitat and effective
soil stability, runoff retention, and infiltration capability. Vegetation
species, composition, density, and diversity must be guided by nearby patches
of native plant communities and by Native Vegetation Establishment and
Enhancement Guidelines;
         c.   Any highly erodible soils disturbed during removal and/or
restoration must be stabilized with deep-rooted vegetation with a high stem
density;
         d.   Vegetation removed must be restored with native vegetation to the
greatest extent practicable. The area (square feet) of the restored vegetation
should be similar to that removed to the greatest extent practicable.
         e.   For restoration of removed native plant communities, restored
vegetation must also provide biological and ecological function equivalent to
the removed native plant communities. The area (square feet) of the restored
vegetation should be equivalent to that removed;
         f.   Be prepared by a qualified individual; and
         g.   Include a maintenance plan that includes management provisions
for controlling invasive species and replacement of plant loss for three (3)
years.
      3.   A certificate of compliance will be issued after the vegetation
restoration plan requirements have been satisfied.
§ 11-13-12: LAND ALTERATION STANDARDS AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT:
   A.   Purpose. To establish standards that protect water quality from
pollutant loadings of sediment, nutrients, bacteria, and other contaminants;
and maintain stability of bluffs, shorelines, and other areas prone to erosion.
   B.   Land alteration.
      1.   Within the bluff impact zone, land alteration is prohibited, except
for the following, which are allowed by permit.
         a.   Erosion control consistent with a plan approved by the local
government or resource agency and consistent with Section
11-13-12(F);
         b.   The minimum necessary for development that is allowed as an
exception under Section
11-13-14; and
         c.   Repair and maintenance of existing buildings and facilities.
      2.   Within the water quality impact zone, land alteration that involves
more than ten (10) cubic yards of material or affects an area greater than one
thousand (1,000) square feet requires a permit.
   C.   Rock riprap, retaining walls, and other erosion control structures.
      1.   Construction, repair, or replacement of rock riprap, retaining
walls, and other erosion control structures located at or below the OHWL must
comply with Minnesota Rules Part 6115.0215, subpart 4, item E, and Part
6115.0216, subpart 2. Work must not proceed until approved by the commissioner,
permitted by the US Army Corps of Engineers, and any other permits are
obtained. See Figure 8.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3d6c8715b752b002e65b7810d3637762553bea09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1249.png]
 
Figure 8. Riprap Guidelines
      2.   Construction or replacement of rock riprap, retaining walls, and
other erosion control structures within the bluff impact zone and the water
quality impact zone are allowed with a permit consistent with provisions of
Section
11-13-12(F) provided that:
         a.   If the project includes work at or below the OHWL, the
commissioner has already approved or permitted the project.
         b.   The structures are used only to correct an established erosion
problem as determined by the City.
         c.   The size and extent of the structures are the minimum necessary
to correct the erosion problem and are not larger than the following, unless a
professional engineer determines that a larger structure is needed to correct
the erosion problem:
            (1)   Retaining walls must not exceed five feet (5') in height and
must be placed a minimum horizontal distance of ten feet (10') apart; and
            (2)   Riprap must not exceed the height of the regulatory flood
protection elevation.
         d.   Repair of existing rock riprap, retaining walls, and other
erosion control structures above the OHWL does not require a permit provided it
does not involve any land alteration.
   D.   Stormwater management.
      1.   In the bluff impact zone, storm water management facilities are
prohibited, except by permit if:
         a.   There are no alternatives for storm water treatment outside the
bluff impact zone on the subject site;
         b.   The site generating runoff is designed so that the amount of
runoff reaching the bluff impact zone is reduced to the greatest extent
practicable;
         c.   The construction and operation of the facility does not affect
slope stability on the subject property or adjacent properties; and
         d.   Mitigation based on the best available engineering and geological
practices is required and applied to eliminate or minimize the risk of slope
failure.
      2.   In the water quality impact zone, development that creates new
impervious surface, as allowed by exemption in Section
11-13-14, or fully reconstructs existing impervious surface of more than ten
thousand (10,000) square feet requires a storm water permit. Multipurpose
trails and sidewalks are exempt if there is down gradient vegetation or a
filter strip that is at least five feet (5') wide.
      3.   In all other areas, storm water runoff must be directed away from
the bluff impact zones or unstable areas.
   E.   Development on steep slopes. Construction of structures, impervious
surfaces, land alteration, vegetation removal, or other construction activities
are allowed on steep slopes if:
      1.   The development can be accomplished without increasing erosion or
storm water runoff;
      2.   The soil types and geology are suitable for the proposed
development; and
      3.   Vegetation is managed according to the requirements of Section
11-13-11.
   F.   Conditions of land alteration permit approval.
      1.   Temporary and permanent erosion and sediment control measures retain
sediment onsite consistent with best management practices in the Minnesota
Stormwater Manual;
      2.   Natural site topography, soil, and vegetation conditions are used to
control runoff and reduce erosion and sedimentation;
      3.   Construction activity is phased when possible;
      4.   All erosion and sediment controls are installed before starting any
land disturbance activity;
      5.   Erosion and sediment controls are maintained to ensure effective
operation;
      6.   The proposed work is consistent with the vegetation standards in
Section
11-13-11; and
      7.   Best management practices for protecting and enhancing ecological
and water resources identified in Best Practices for Meeting DNR General Public
Waters Work Permit GP 2004-0001.
   G.   Compliance with other plans and programs. All development must:
      1.   Be consistent with Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 103B, and local water
management plans completed under Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 8410;
      2.   Meet or exceed the wetland protection standards under Minnesota
Rules, Chapter 8420; and
      3.   Meet or exceed the floodplain management standards under Minnesota
Rules Parts 6120.5000 - 6120.6200.
§ 11-13-13: SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Purpose.
      1.   To protect and enhance the natural and scenic values of the MRCCA
during development or redevelopment of the remaining large sites; and
      2.   To establish standards for protecting and restoring biological and
ecological functions of primary conservation areas on large sites; and
      3.   To encourage restoration of natural vegetation during development or
redevelopment of large sites where restoration opportunities have been
identified in MRCCA Plans.
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   The design standards in this section apply to subdivisions, Planned
Unit Developments and master-planned development and redevelopment of land
involving ten (10) or more acres contiguous parcels that abut the Mississippi
River and twenty (20) or more acres for all other parcels, including smaller
individual sites within the following developments that are part of a common
plan of development that may be constructed at different times:
         a.   Subdivisions;
         b.   Planned Unit Developments; and
         c.   Master-planned development and redevelopment of land.
      2.   The following activities are exempt from the requirements of this
section:
         a.   Minor subdivisions consisting of three (3) or fewer lots;
         b.   Minor boundary line corrections;
         c.   Resolutions of encroachments;
         d.   Additions to existing lots of record;
         e.   Placement of essential services; and
         f.   Activities involving river-dependent commercial and industrial
uses.
   C.   Application materials. Project information listed in Section
11-13-5(F) must be submitted for all proposed developments.
   D.   Design standards.
      1.   Primary conservation areas, where they exist, must be set aside and
designated as protected open space in quantities meeting the following as a
percentage of total parcel area:
         a.   CA-ROS District: fifty percent (50%);
         b.   CA-RN District: twenty percent (20%);
         c.   CA-UM Districts: ten percent (10%);
         d.   CA-SR District: ten percent (10%) if the parcel includes native
plant communities or provides feasible connections to a regional park or trail
system, otherwise no requirement.
      2.   If the primary conservation areas exceed the amounts specified in
Section
11-13-13(D)(1), then protection of native plant communities and natural
vegetation in riparian areas shall be prioritized.
      3.   If primary conservation areas exist but do not have natural
vegetation (identified as restoration priorities in the MRCCA Plan), then a
vegetation assessment must be completed to evaluate the unvegetated primary
conservation areas and determine whether vegetation restoration is needed. If
restoration is needed, vegetation must be restored according to Section
11-13-11(F).
      4.   If primary conservation areas do not exist on the parcel and
portions of the parcel have been identified in the MRCCA plan as a restoration
area, vegetation must be restored in the identified areas according to Section
11-13-11(F) and the area must be set aside and designated as protected open
space.
      5.   Storm water treatment areas or other green infrastructure may be
used to meet the protected open space requirements if the vegetation provides
biological and ecological functions.
      6.   Land dedicated under City Code Title 10, Chapter 4, Section 3 for
public river access, parks, or other open space or public facilities may be
counted toward the protected open space requirement.
      7.   Protected open space areas must connect open space, natural areas,
and recreational areas, where present on adjacent parcels, as much as possible
to form an interconnected network.
   E.   Permanent protection of designated open space.
      1.   Designated open space areas must be protected through one (1) or
more of the following methods:
         a.   Public acquisition by a government entity for conservation
purposes;
         b.   A permanent conservation easement, as provided in Minnesota
Statutes, Chapter 84C;
         c.   A deed restriction; and
         d.   Other arrangements that achieve an equivalent degree of
protection.
      2.   Permanent protection methods must ensure the long-term management of
vegetation to meet its biological and ecological functions, prohibit
structures, and prohibit land alteration, except as needed to provide public
recreational facilities and access to the river.
   F.   Alternative design standards. Alterative design standards may be
considered through a PUD or cluster development. Individual lots in a PUD or
cluster development are not required to meet the design standards of this
section if it can be demonstrated that the overall development is in compliance
with the standards and purpose of this section.
§ 11-13-14: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Purpose. To provide exemptions to structure placement, height and other
standards for specific river or water access dependent facilities as provided
in Minnesota Statutes Section 116G.15, subdivision 4.
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   Uses and activities not specifically exempted must comply with this
section. Uses and activities exempted under shore impact zone and bluff impact
zone must comply with the vegetation management and land alteration standards
in Sections
11-13-10 and
11-13-11.
      2.   Uses and activities in Section
11-13-14 (C) are categorized as:
         Exempt - E. This means that the use or activity is allowed;
         Exempt if no alternative - (E). This means that the use or activity is
allowed only if no alternatives exist; and
         Not exempt - N. This means that a use or activity is not exempt and
must meet the standards of this ordinance.
   C.   Use and activity exemptions classification.
      1.   General uses and activities. On the tables below:
SIZ - Shore Impact Zone
BIZ - Bluff Impact Zone
Use or Activity Setbacks Height Limits SIZ BIZ Applicable Standards with Which
                                               the Use or Activity must Comply
SIZ - Shore Impact Zone
BIZ - Bluff Impact Zone
                                                       Applicable Standards
Use or Activity         Setbacks Height Limits SIZ BIZ with Which the Use or
                                                       Activity must Comply
Industrial and utility
structures requiring                                   Structure design and
greater height for                                     placement must minimize
operational reasons     N        E             N   N   interference with public
(such as elevators,                                    river corridor views.
refineries and railroad
signaling towers)
Barns, silos, and farm  N        E             N   N    
structures
Bridges and bridge      E        E             E   (E) 11-13-10
approach roadways
Wireless communication  E        E             N   N   11-13-7  (D)
towers
Chimneys, church
spires, flag poles,
public monuments, and   N        E             N   N    
mechanical stacks and
equipment
Historic properties and                                Exemptions do not apply
contributing properties E        E             E   E   to additions or site
in historic districts                                  alterations
 
       2.   Public utilities.
 
                                                       Applicable Standards
Use or Activity         Setbacks Height Limits SIZ BIZ with Which the Use or
                                                       Activity must Comply
Electrical power        E        E             E   (E) 11-13-10
facilities
Essential services
(other than storm water E        E             E   (E) 11-13-10
facilities)
Storm water facilities  E        N             E   (E) 11-13-12
Wastewater treatment    E        N             E   N   11-13-10
Public transportation   E        N             (E) (E) 11-13-10
facilities
 
      3.   Public recreational facilities.
Use or Activity Setbacks Height Limits SIZ BIZ Applicable Standards with Which
                                               the Use or Activity must Comply
                                                       Applicable Standards
Use or Activity         Setbacks Height Limits SIZ BIZ with Which the Use or
                                                       Activity must Comply
Accessory structures,                                  11-13-10 ; within BIZ,
such as monuments,                                     only on slopes averaging
flagpoles, light        E        E             (E) (E) less than 30%.
standards, and similar                                 Exemptions do not apply
park features                                          to principal structures.
Picnic shelters and
other open-sided        E        N             (E) N   11-13-10
structures
                                                       11-13-10 ; within BIZ,
                                                       only within 20 feet of
Parking lots            (E)      N             (E) (E) toe of bluff; not on
                                                       face of bluff; and must
                                                       not affect stability of
                                                       bluff
Roads and driveways     (E)      N             (E) (E) 11-13-10
Natural-surfaced
trails, access paths,   E        N             E   E   11-13-10
and viewing areas
Hard-surfaced trails                                   11-13-10 ; within BIZ,
and viewing platforms   E        N             E   (E) only on slopes averaging
                                                       less than 30%
Water access ramps      E        N             E   (E) 11-13-10
Public signs and kiosks
for interpretive or     E        N             E   (E) 11-13-10
directional purposes
 
      4.   River-dependent uses.
 
                                                       Applicable Standards
Use or Activity         Setbacks Height Limits SIZ BIZ with Which the Use or
                                                       Activity must Comply
                                                       11-13-7 (C). Exemptions
                                                       do not apply to
Shoreline facilities    E        N             E   (E) buildings, structures,
                                                       and parking areas that
                                                       are not part of a
                                                       shoreline facility
Private roads and
conveyance structures   E        N1            E   (E) 11-13-7 (C)
serving river-dependent
uses
 
      5.   Private residential and commercial water access and use facilities.
Use or Activity Setbacks Height Limits SIZ BIZ Applicable Standards with Which
                                               the Use or Activity must Comply
                                                       Applicable Standards
Use or Activity         Setbacks Height Limits SIZ BIZ with Which the Use or
                                                       Activity must Comply
                                                       11-13-9 ; in BIZ, only
                                                       on slopes averaging less
                                                       than 30%. Exemption does
Private roads serving 3 (E)      N             N   (E) not apply to private
or more lots                                           roads serving fewer 3
                                                       lots or to private
                                                       driveways and parking
                                                       areas
Access paths            E        N             E   E   11-13-9
Water access ramps      E        N             E   N   11-13-9
Stairways, lifts, and   E        N             E   E   11-13-9
landings
Water-oriented          E        N             E   N   11-13-9
accessory structures
Patios and decks        E        N             N   N   11-13-9  (E)
Temporary storage of
docks, boats, and other E        N             E   N    
equipment during the
winter months
Erosion control
structures, such as     E        N             E   (E) 11-13-12  (C), (E) and
rock riprap and                                        (F)
retaining walls
Flood control           E        N             E   (E) 11-13-12
structures
 
      
 
TITLE 12: SIGN REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1: SIGN CODE
Section
12-1-1: Sign Code
12-1-2: Findings, Purpose and Intent
12-1-3: Definitions
12-1-4: General Requirements
12-1-5: Permit Requirements
12-1-6: Prohibited Signs
12-1-7: Design Standards
12-1-8: Signs in Agricultural Districts
12-1-9: Signs in Residential Districts
12-1-10: Signs in Business Districts
12-1-11: Signs in Industrial Districts
12-1-12: Miscellaneous Sign Provisions
§ 12-1-1: SIGN CODE:
   This Sign Code shall be known, cited and referred to as the Cottage Grove
Sign Regulations Ordinance, except as referred to herein, where it shall be
known as "this Title". (Ord. 1082, 5-1-2024)
§ 12-1-2: FINDINGS, PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Findings, Purpose and Intent:
      1.   Findings. The City Council hereby finds as follows:
         a.   Exterior signs have a substantial impact on the character and
quality of the environment.
         b.   Signs provide an important medium through which individuals may
convey a variety of messages.
         c.   Signs can create public safety hazards, aesthetic concerns and
detriments to property values, that threaten the public health, safety, or
welfare.
         d.   The regulation of signs within the city has had a positive impact
on traffic safety and the appearance of the community.
         e.   The City Code includes the regulation of signs in an effort to
provide an adequate means of expression and to promote the economic viability
of the business community, while protecting the City and its citizens from a
proliferation of signs of a type, size, location and character that would
adversely impact upon the aesthetics of the community and threaten the health,
safety and welfare of the community. The regulations of the physical
characteristics of signs within the City have had a positive impact on traffic
safety and the appearance of the community.
      2.   Purpose and Intent. It is not the purpose of this Title to regulate
the message displayed on any sign; nor is it the purpose of this Title to
regulate any building design or any display not defined as a sign, or any sign
which cannot be viewed from outside a building. The purpose of this chapter is
to:
         a.   Regulate the number, location, size, type, illumination and other
physical characteristics of signs within the City in order to promote the
public health, safety and welfare.
         b.   Maintain, enhance and improve the aesthetic environment of the
City by preventing visual clutter that is harmful to the appearance of the
community.
      3.   Improve the visual appearance of the City while providing for
effective means of communication, consistent with constitutional guarantees and
the City's goals of public safety and aesthetics. It is the intent of the
chapter to authorize the use of signs which:
         a.   Allow a wide variety of sign types in commercial zones, and a
more limited variety of signs in other zones, subject to the standards set
forth in this Section.
         b.   Prohibit signs whose location, size, type, illumination or other
physical characteristics negatively affect the environment and where the
communication can be accomplished by means having a lesser impact on the
environment, community aesthetics, and the public health, safety and welfare.
         c.   Eliminate confusing, distracting, or dangerous signs that
interfere with vehicular traffic.
         d.   Promote and encourage commerce.
         e.   Provide fair and equal treatment of signage.
   B.   Diagrams. The inclusion of diagrams in this text is for illustrative
purposes only. Where a diagram conflicts with the written text, the text shall
prevail.
   C.   Substitution.
      1.   The owner of any sign that is otherwise allowed by this article may
substitute noncommercial speech in lieu of any other commercial speech or
noncommercial speech. This substitution of copy may be made without any
additional approval or permitting.
      2.   The purpose of this "substitution" provision is to prevent any
inadvertent favoring of commercial speech over noncommercial speech or favoring
of any particular noncommercial speech over any other noncommercial speech.
This provision prevails over any more specific provision to the contrary. (Ord.
1082, 5-1-2024)
§ 12-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases when used in this Title
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   ABANDONED SIGN: Any sign and/or its supporting sign structure that remains
without a message or whose display surface remains blank for more than one year
or that pertains to a time, event, or purpose that no longer applies. Abandoned
signs are not legally established nonconforming signs.
   ADDRESS SIGN: A sign on a building displaying numbers only, whether written
or in numeric form, used for proper identification of the location of the
building.
   ALTERATION: Any major change to a sign excluding routine maintenance,
painting, or changing of copy of an existing sign.
   AWNING: A roof like cover, often of fabric, plastic, metal, or glass,
designed and intended for protection from the weather or as a decorative
embellishment that projects from a wall or roof of any structure primarily over
a window, door, wall, or the like.
   BANNER: A temporary sign made of lightweight fabric or similar material
either securely fastened to poles or on the exterior of a building.
   BEACON/SPOTLIGHT: Any light with one or more beams directed into the
atmosphere or directed at one or more points not on the same lot as the light
source; also, any light with one or more beams that rotate or move.
   BENCH SIGN: A sign which is affixed or painted to a bench.
   BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the average elevation of the
adjoining ground level, or the established grade adjacent to the building,
whichever is lower, to the top of the cornice of a flat roof, to the deck line
of a mansard roof, to a point of the roof directly above the highest wall of a
shed roof, the uppermost point on a round or other arch type roof, or to the
highest gable on a pitched or hip roof.
   BUILDING MARKER: Any sign indicating the name of a building and date and
incidental information about its construction, which sign is cut into a masonry
surface or made of bronze or other permanent material.
   BUSINESS: Any establishment, occupation, employment, or enterprise wherein
merchandise is manufactured, exhibited, or sold or which occupies time,
attention, labor, and materials or where services are offered for compensation.
   CANOPY: A roof like structure projecting over a doorway.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN: A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters, or
illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering the face or
the surface of the sign. A "changeable copy sign" shall also include reader
board signs.
   COMMEMORATIVE OR MEMORIAL SIGN: A sign, tablet, or plaque commemorating or
memorializing a person, event, structure, or site.
   COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL BUILDING COMPLEX: A development of industrial or
commercial buildings, tenants, or uses, in close proximity that are intended to
function in a joint manner, regardless of sequence of build-out.
Characteristics of a shopping area or building complex may include, but are not
limited to, shared parking facilities, joint access, and common building
design. A shopping area or building complex may include multiple tenants or
multiple owners, freestanding pad buildings', and may be situated on one or
more lots or parcels or other factors as determined by City Staff.
   COMMERCIAL SPEECH: Speech that is advertising a business, profession,
commodity, service, or entertainment.
   COPY AND GRAPHIC: The wording and other display messages such as logos or
symbols on a sign.
   COPY AND GRAPHIC AREA: The area contained within a rectangle or square drawn
completely around the display surface which encloses the copy and graphic of a
sign.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN: A sign erected on public or private property which is
designated to guide vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   DISTRICT: A specific zoning district as defined in City Code Title 11.
   DYNAMIC DISPLAY: Any characteristics of a sign that appear to have movement
or that appear to change, caused by any method other than physically removing
and replacing the sign or its components, whether the apparent movement or
change is in the display, the sign structure itself, or any other component of
the sign. This includes a display that incorporates a technology or method
allowing the sign face to change the image without having to physically or
mechanically replace the sign face or its components. This also includes any
rotating, revolving, moving, flashing, blinking, or animated display and any
display that incorporates rotating panels, LED lights manipulated through
digital input, "digital ink", video display, or any other method or technology
that allows the sign face to present a series of images or displays.
   ENTRANCE MONUMENT SIGN: A sign which identifies the name of a neighborhood,
a residential subdivision, a multi- family complex consisting of three (3) or
more structures or ten (10) or more units, a commercial development consisting
of three (3) or more separate structures, a shopping center area, an industrial
area consisting of three (3) or more structures or any combination of the
above, which does not specifically identify the individual business therein.
   ERECT: The activity of constructing, building, raising, assembling, placing,
affixing, attaching, creating, painting, drawing, or any other way of bringing
in to being or establishing.
   FACADE: Is a portion of any exterior elevation of a building extending from
grade to the top of the parapet wall or eaves and the entire width of the
building elevation.
   FARM IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign which identifies or otherwise describes the
name, ownership and/or type of agricultural operation of the lot or parcel of
land upon which it is situated.
   FLAG: Any fabric or similar lightweight material attached at one end of the
material, usually to a staff or pole, so as to allow movement of the material
by atmospheric changes and that contains distinctive colors, patterns, symbols,
emblems, insignia, or other symbolic devices.
   FLASHING SIGN: A directly or indirectly illuminated sign or portion thereof
that exhibits changing light or color effect by any means, to provide
intermittent illumination that changes light intensity in sudden transitory
bursts and creates the illusion of intermittent flashing light by streaming,
graphic bursts showing movement or any mode of lighting which resembles
zooming, twinkling, or sparkling.
   FREESTANDING SIGN: A sign that is placed in the ground and not affixed to
any part of a structure or building.
   FRONTAGE: For purposes of this Chapter, the front side of a building or
tenant space facing the public right of way.
   GOVERNMENTAL SIGN: A sign which is erected by a governmental unit for the
purposes of identification, information, or directing or guiding traffic.
   GRADE: For the purposes of this Chapter, the elevation or level of the
ground at the place the sign is to be erected.
   GROSS SIGN AREA CALCULATION: The method of calculating the allowable square
footage of signs shall be as follows:
      1.    Individual Letters or Figures: When attached onto a surface such as
a building, canopy, wall, or awning, the area shall be the smallest rectangle
that encompasses all of the letters or symbols unless the letters and/or
symbols are separated by two feet (2') or more in length, in which case the
letter(s) and symbol(s) area shall be calculated separately and added together.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3d6c8715b752b002e65b7810d3637762553bea09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1223.png]
      2.    Monument Signs: The smallest rectangle, square, circle, triangle,
or combination thereof that will encompass the entire area of the sign face,
including all lettering, wording, and accompanying designs and symbols,
together with all the background, whether open or enclosed, on which they are
displayed and in no case passing through or between elements of such sign. The
area shall not include the main supporting sign structure but shall include
other ornamental attachments that are not a part of the main support of the
sign.
 [https://export.amlegal.com/media/3d6c8715b752b002e65b7810d3637762553bea09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1225.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3d6c8715b752b002e65b7810d3637762553bea09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1229.png]
      3.    Wall Signs: The smallest rectangle, square, circle, triangle, or
combination thereof that will encompass the entire area of the frame, including
all lettering, wording, and accompanying designs and symbols, together with all
the background, whether open or enclosed, on which they are displayed and in no
case passing through or between elements of such sign. The area shall not
include the main supporting sign structure but shall include other ornamental
attachments that are not a part of the main support of the sign. Letter(s) and
symbol(s) separated by two feet (21) or more in length shall be calculated
separately and added together.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3d6c8715b752b002e65b7810d3637762553bea09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1231.png]
   HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the base of the sign at grade to
the top of the highest attached component of the sign.
   IDENTIFICATION SIGN: Any sign which states the name or address or both of
identifies the business or occupant of the lot or building where the sign is
placed and may be a directory business or occupants.
   ILLEGAL SIGN: A sign that is erected without first complying with all City
ordinances and regulations in effect at the time of its construction and
erection or use.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN: Any sign that contains an element designated to emanate
artificial light internally or externally.
   INCIDENTAL SIGN: Incidental signs or signs within a building provided that
the sign is not readily visible from the public right-of-way, adjacent
properties, and are not illuminated.
   INFLATABLE SIGN: An inflatable sign means any object enlarged or inflated
over 24 inches that floats, is tethered in the air, or is located on the ground
or on a building with or without copy or other graphics.
   INFORMATIONAL SIGN: Any sign erected for the safety or convenience of the
public to provide information or wayfinding and other signs that do not promote
or contain advertising or identification of a business, property, or product.
   LEGAL NONCONFORMING SIGN: A sign which lawfully existed prior to the passage
of the ordinance codified in this Chapter or amendments thereto but which does
not conform to this Chapter.
   LEGALLY ESTABLISHED NONCONFORMING SIGNS: Any sign and its support structure
lawfully erected prior to the effective date of any provision of this Chapter
that fails to conform to the requirements of this Chapter.
   LOGO: A symbol, image, insignia, word, word abbreviation, or initials which
are designed for easy recognition, and which represents or identifies in
graphic form, a nation or organization of nation; businesses; states or cities;
or fraternal, religious and civic organizations or any educational
institutions, irrespective of whether they are made of permanent,
semipermanent, or temporary materials.
   MENU BOARD SIGN: A freestanding exterior sign adjacent to the drive-through
lane at a drive-through facility that identifies items for sale at the facility
and their associated prices for customers.
   MERCHANDISE SIGN: A temporary A-frame or sandwich board style sign
advertising merchandise or services displayed outside an enclosed building.
   MONUMENT SIGN: A freestanding sign independent from any building or other
structure that is mounted on the ground or mounted on a base that is at least
as wide as the sign, but in no event shall the base exceed one hundred fifty
percent (150%) of the greatest width of the sign. A monument sign is typically
solid from grade to the top of the structure; however, a monument sign may
include open area below the face of the sign if the sign complies with the
monument sign supporting sign structure design criteria.
   MOTION SIGN: Any sign which revolves, rotates, has any moving parts, or
gives the illusion of motion including animated or flashing signs.
   MURAL: A work of graphic art painted on a building wall, which contains no
commercial advertising or logos and which does not serve to advertise or
promote any business, product, activity, service, interest, or entertainment.
   NONCOMMERCIAL FLAG: Any flag other than a business or commercial flag,
including, without limitation, a flag of any governmental, religious,
charitable, fraternal, or political organization or cause.
   NONCOMMERCIAL SPEECH: A sign that does not contain commercial speech but
promotes a message concerning political, religious, social, ideological, public
service, or informational topics.
   OBSOLETE SIGN: Any sign which no longer advertises a bona fide business
conducted or products sold at that location or premises where the sign is
located.
   OFF PREMISES SIGN: A sign bearing commercial speech that is located on a
property that is not the premises, property, or site of the use identified or
advertised on the sign.
   ON PREMISES SIGN: A sign bearing commercial speech that is located on the
premises, property, or site of the use identified or advertised on the sign.
   PARAPET: The portion of the building wall that rises above the roof level.
   PENNANT: Pieces of cloth, paper, or plastic intended to be individually
supported or attached to each other by means of rope, string or other material,
and intended to be hung on buildings or other structures or between poles that
does not include any company logo or other form of corporate identity.
   PERMANENT SIGN: Any sign which is not a temporary sign.
   PROJECTING SIGN: A sign other than a wall sign which is affixed to a
building, and which extends perpendicular from the building wall.
   PYLON SIGN: A sign supported by a post or posts so that the sign and
supports are finished to grade and the post or posts are encased in a material
consistent with the sign.
   READER BOARD: A sign where the message is changeable but does not change
automatically.
   REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT SIGN: A sign placed on the premises of a subdivision
or other real estate development related to the subdivision or real estate
development.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN: A sign placed upon a property advertising that particular
property for sale, rent, or lease.
   RIGHT OF WAY: A public right of way, intended for vehicular traffic,
including freeways, expressways, arterials, parkways, thoroughfares, collector
streets, local streets, cul-de-sacs, access streets, avenues, boulevards,
lanes, and other public ways, as now or hereafter designated.
   ROOF SIGN: A sign erected on the roof or above the roof line of a building
or a sign painted on or attached directly to the roof.
   ROOFLINE: The uppermost line of the roof of a building or in the case of an
extended facade, the uppermost height of such facade.
   SIGN: Any letter, word, symbol, device, poster, picture, reading matter, or
representation in an advertisement, announcement, message, or visual
communication, whether painted, posted, printed, affixed, or constructed, which
is displayed outdoors for informational, corporate identification, or
communicative attention-getting purposes and is visible to the general public.
   SIGN STRUCTURE: The supports, uprights, raceway, bracing, and framework for
a sign, including the sign area.
   STREET FRONTAGE: The proximity of a parcel of land to one or more streets.
An interior lot has one street frontage, and a corner lot has two (2)
frontages.
   TEMPORARY SIGN: Any sign which is erected or displayed for a limited period
of time, including signs affixed or attached to vehicles, including trailers,
and capable of being readily removable.
   TEMPORARY EVENT SIGN: Any activity having a specific duration or the end of
which is related to a specific action. Temporary events include such activities
as: festivals, open houses, garage sales, sales and athletic events.
   TOTAL SIGNAGE SQUARE FOOTAGE CALCULATION: The square footage of every sign
on the exterior of any building on the property, or visible from public
property, unless explicitly exempted by this Section, shall count towards the
total signage square footage calculation.
   UNSAFE SIGN: Any sign that is out of order, in disrepair, rotten, hazardous,
or in any other manner unsafe.
   WALL SIGN: A sign which is affixed to the exterior wall of a building, and
which is parallel to the building wall, and which does not project more than
twelve inches (12") from the surface to which it is attached, nor extend beyond
the top of the parapet wall.
   WINDOW SIGN: Any sign, pictures, symbol, attention-getting device or
combination thereof, designed to communicate information about an activity,
business, commodity, event, sale, or service, that is placed inside a window or
upon the windowpanes or glass and is visible from the exterior of the window.
(Ord. 1082, 5-1-2024)
§ 12-1-4: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Consent of property owner.
      1.   No person may erect, place, use or permit the use of any permanent
sign or sign structure on private or public property without the property owner
or authorized representative's written consent.
      2.   No person may construct, erect, place, use, or permit the use of any
temporary sign on private or public property without the property owner or
authorized representative's written consent.
   B.   Any sign not exempted from the requirements of obtaining a sign permit
by
12-1-5 (B) must obtain a sign permit pursuant to
12-1-5 (A).
   C.   No person may erect or construct a sign on a site that contains
unlawful signs.
   D.   No sign may be installed in a manner that obstructs the clear vision of
streets, or that may be confused with a traffic control sign, signal, or
device. (Ord. 1082, 5-1-2024)
§ 12-1-5: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Sign Permit Requirements: All signs must be constructed in accordance
with all applicable City Code provisions, including requirements for obtaining
permits and payment of required fees. No sign, unless exempted by this Section,
shall be erected, altered, reconstructed, or moved in the City without first
securing a permit from the City.
      1.   Application for Permit: The following information shall be submitted
within or along with the permit application for a sign:
         a.   Contact information of person making application and owning the
sign and property where the sign will be erected (if different).
         b.   A site plan drawn to scale showing the location of lot lines,
buildings, structures, tenant leased wall area if applicable, parking areas,
existing and proposed signs, and any other physical features of the property
where the sign will be located.
         c.   Plans shall indicate the proposed location, specifications,
number of signs and their dimensions and square footage, and method of
construction and attachment to the building or placement method in the ground.
         d.   Diagrams for illustrative purposes. Locations, sizes or heights
of signs depicted on site plans or other drawings submitted with any planning
application shall be for illustrative purposes only. The construction of each
sign shall meet the requirements of the sign ordinance unless the conditions of
approval fora planned unit development provide otherwise.
         e.   Copy of stress sheets and calculations showing that the structure
is designed for dead load and wind pressure in any direction in the amount
required by City Code and all other state or federal laws, if requested by City
Staff.
         f.   Written consent of the owner or lessee of any site on which the
sign is to be erected if the applicant is not the owner of the property.
         g.   Other information as determined by City Staff to show full
compliance with this Title and all other state or federal laws and ordinances
of the City.
      2.   Administration: Sign permits are approved by City Staff. Any appeal
of a City Staff determination shall follow the procedures described in City
Code Section Title 11, Chapter 2, Section 13 (
11-2-13).
   B.   Exceptions: No sign permit is required for the following signs which
are permissible in all zoning districts. The following signs shall conform to
all the other provisions of this Title or City Code. These signs shall not
count towards the Total Signage Square Footage Calculation.
      1.   Address Signs: Address signs not exceeding three (3) square feet for
single family residential properties and six (6) square feet for multi-family,
industrial, or commercial properties.
      2.   Building Markers: Building markers not exceeding four (4) square
feet.
      3.   Construction Sites: At the site of new construction for development
temporary signs are permitted in accordance with the following:
         a.   One freestanding temporary sign is permitted, provided it
complies with the following:
            (1)   The sign is no larger than thirty-two (32) square feet and
does not exceed more than eight feet (8') in height.
            (2)   The sign must be located on the property under development.
            (3)   The sign shall be set back at least twenty feet (20') from
all property lines.
            (4)   The sign shall be removed when ninety percent (90%) of the
construction in the development is completed.
         b.   Subdivision model homes are permitted three (3) temporary
directional signs for each model home, provided they comply with the following:
            (1)   Sign(s) may be no more than twenty-four inches by twenty-four
inches (24" x 24") in size.
            (2)   Signs must be located within the developing subdivision.
            (3)   Signs may not be closer than fifteen feet (15') to the back
of the curb nor closer than two feet (2') to any sidewalk or trail.
            (4)   Signs shall not be located in the Right of Way.
            (5)   Sign(s) shall be removed when ninety percent (90%) of the
construction in the development is completed.
      4.   Incidental Signs.
      5.   Informational and Directional Signs: Informational and directional
signs posted onsite, provided the signs conform to the following:
         a.   Number.
            (1)   One directional sign is allowed for each vehicle entrance or
exit to any non- residential or multi-family building.
            (2)   Additional directional signs may be allowed if a need is
demonstrated for proper traffic flow.
         b.   Area. The area of each sign shall not exceed six square feet.
         c.   Height. The height of the sign including the pole or base shall
not exceed four feet from grade to the top of the sign.
         d.   Location.
            (1)   The sign shall be setback from any property line at least
five (5) feet.
            (2)   Multi-tenant developments and uses on lots exceeding 50,000
square feet in area may display internal site directional signs. Such
directional signs shall be located within 10 feet of an internal site driveway
or drive aisle and may not exceed 8 square feet in area or 6 feet in height.
            (3)   The sign shall not be located so as to impair the vision of
the driver of a vehicle and shall not be located in the clear view triangle.
      6.   Merchandise Signs: Merchandise signs in accordance with the
following:
         a.   Must be located within twenty feet (20') from the main entrance
of the business or service being advertised.
         b.   Must be removed at the end of each business day.
         c.   May be no larger than six (6) square feet in size per side.
         d.   Merchandise signs in the public right of way or public easements
are prohibited.
      7.   Signs that exclusively express noncommercial speech, subject to the
following:
         a.   Noncommercial flags and commercial flags. Flagpoles shall be no
taller than 10 feet above the highest point of the tallest building on the lot
or site, maintain a side and rear yard setback not less than the height of the
flagpole, and be setback a minimum of 15 feet from any public right-of-way.
         b.   Noncommercial Signs during Election Season:
            (1)   In a state general election year, all noncommercial signs of
any size may be posted in any number within or outside the public right of way
on private property from forty-six (46) days before the state primary in a
state general election year until ten (10) days following the state general
election. Noncommercial signs may be placed in a City right of way on private
property only if they are located more than ten feet (10') from the back of the
curb or more than two feet (2') from the edge of a sidewalk or trail, whichever
is farthest from the street curb and/or mounted on the face of a fence if the
fence is less than ten feet (10') from the back edge of the street curb or less
than two feet (2') from the edge of a sidewalk or trail.
            (2)   If there is a primary for any office in a year that is not a
state general election year, noncommercial signs may be posted within or
outside the public right of way on private property twenty-one (21) days before
the primary election. When there is no primary, noncommercial signs may be
posted twenty-one (21) days before the general election.
            (3)   All noncommercial signs except those otherwise permitted by
this Chapter must be removed within ten (10) days following the general
election.
            (4)   The City of Cottage Grove shall not be responsible for damage
to any signs placed in the right-of-way.
         c.   Noncommercial Yard Signs:
            (1)   Maximum of 2 signs per property.
            (2)   Each sign may be no larger than 6 square feet.
            (3)   Signs may not be located in the right of way.
         d.   Temporary Noncommercial Event Signs such as garage/yard sales,
community events, graduations, youth sports registration, and similar type
signs.
            (1)   The maximum size of signs shall be six square feet in area
and no more than three feet in height.
            (2)   The sign shall only be displayed no more than ten (10) days
prior to the event and must be removed within 24 hours after the event is
completed.
            (3)   Signs shall not be located in the right of way.
            (4)   Signs must be for event locations within the City of Cottage
Grove.
            (5)   The person responsible for the signs placement must have the
permission of the property owner where the sign is erected.
            (6)   Any temporary noncommercial event sign counts towards the
allotted number of permitted yard signs identified in section C.
      8.   Official Government Flags/Emblems: Official government flags and
emblems.
      9.   Public Notices or Signs Required: Official public notices or signs
required by local, state, or federal regulations and all governmental signs,
including, but not limited to, traffic control and other regulatory purpose
signs, street signs, informational signs, utility signs, danger signs, and
railroad crossing signs.
      10.   On properties that are for sale or lease temporary signs are
allowed subject to the following regulations:
         a.   One sign per street frontage is permitted in residential
districts.
         b.   In residential districts, signs must not exceed six (6) square
feet in area and six feet (6') in height.
         c.   Permitted as window signs as long as they do not exceed forty
percent (40%) of total window area in commercial or industrial districts.
         d.   In nonresidential districts, one freestanding sign per street
frontage with a maximum height of eight feet (8') and no larger than thirty-two
(32) square feet is permitted.
         e.   Real estate signs must be removed within seven (7) days following
lease or sale closing.
      11.   No commercial speech shall be permitted on a scoreboard, except
that an organization sponsoring the scoreboard or facility may include
identifying information within the area allowed for the scoreboard in a
combined amount not to exceed 40 percent of the total scoreboard area.
      12.   Window Signs: Window signs placed within a building and within view
of the general public cannot obstruct more than thirty-three percent (33%) of
the window and no more than 75 square feet of street frontage. Window signs
shall conform to the following standards:
         a.   The window signage area shall be determined by measuring a box
around each group of characters, objects, images, logos, and any background to
the objects, images, and logos.
         b.   Hours of operation and “open”/”closed” signs shall not be
included in window sign area calculation. Signs shall remain static and not
flashing.
         c.   Window signs may be illuminated during hours of operation. (Ord.
1082, 5-1-2024)
§ 12-1-6: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
   A.   Prohibited Signs: The following signs are specifically prohibited in
any district:
      1.   Motion signs, including rotating, animated, and flashing signs other
than dynamic display signs as permitted elsewhere in this chapter.
      2.   Roof Signs
      3.   Signs Painted on windows and walls and other structures.
      4.   Obsolete or Abandoned Signs. Illegal signs and illegal nonconforming
signs.
      5.   Signs Attached to Utility Poles, Streetlights, Towers, Trees,
Fences, Rocks, or Other Similar Natural Surfaces.
      6.   Searchlights or beacons.
      7.   No person shall display, place, erect, post, maintain, install,
affix a sign on any portion of a pedestrian bridge or overpass that passes over
a freeway or a controlled access highway.
      8.   No sign shall be permitted that is a hazard to the public health,
safety, convenience, or general welfare.
      9.   Benches and Bus Shelter Signs: Signs on bus shelters and bus benches
are prohibited.
      10.   Off premises signs.
      11.   On corner lots, no signs are permitted within a clear view
triangle. The clear view triangle is that area that begins at the intersection
of the front property line and corner side property line and is measured back
ten feet (101) along both property lines. Those points are then connected with
a straight line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3d6c8715b752b002e65b7810d3637762553bea09/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1233.png]
      12.    No sign shall contain any obscene matter as defined by Minnesota
Statutes Section 617.241.
      13.    Pennants or feather flags.
      14.    Inflatable signs.
      15.    Pylon signs.
      16.    Signs that obstruct windows, doors, fire escapes, or an opening
intended to provide ingress or egress to any structure or building.
      17.    Signs that appear in color or design to resemble a traffic sign or
signal or that make use of words, symbols, or characters in such a manner as to
interfere with, mislead, or confuse pedestrian or vehicular traffic. (Ord.
1082, 5-1-2024)
§ 12-1-7: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Color of Signs: All signs which have their backs visible to public view
shall have such backs painted in a neutral color compatible with the background
against which they are set.
   B.   Signs Affixed Flat Against Building Walls: No sign affixed flat against
a building wall shall extend beyond any edge of such wall, nor shall any such
sign extrude more than twelve inches (12") from the wall.
   C.   Changing Copy of Sign: The changing of the copy or message of a
painted, plastic face, or printed sign is permitted without a permit provided
that there is no change in the size, shape, or lighting of the sign.
   D.   Compliance with Building and Electrical Code: All signs shall comply
with all applicable provisions of the building code and, if applicable,
electrical code.
   E.   Approval of Property Owner: No sign shall be placed on any property
without the approval of the property owner.
   F.   Height Above Public Ways: Except for necessary poles, uprights,
pedestals, and other support structure elements, no portion of any sign located
over a public right of way shall be less than eight feet (8') above grade
level, except for signs that are designed such that they present no hazard to
pedestrians or vehicles.
   G.   Illuminated Signs:
      1.   Illuminated signs lighted by any means, whether as an integral part
of the sign or a light away from the sign, such as floodlights, shall be
governed as follows:
         a.   Any combination of signs or light sources which cast a light on a
public street shall not exceed one foot-candle (foot-candle meter reading) as
measured at the property line.
         b.   Any combination of signs or lights which cast light on property
zoned for residential use shall not exceed five-tenths (0.5) of a foot candle
(foot- candle meter reading) as measured at the property line of such
residential property.
         c.   In no instance shall exposed light bulbs be utilized to light
signs, property, or merchandise. The lights shall be hooded or controlled in
some manner so as to direct light away from public streets or adjacent or
nearby property.
         d.   The illumination source shall not be placed so as to cause or
create a traffic hazard or to conflict with traffic control signs or lights.
         e.   The illumination electrical power supply, wiring, and conduits
must not be visible on the exterior of the sign.
      2.   The illumination of building facades and landscaping with
architectural lighting shall be permitted when properly maintained.
   H.   Dynamic Display Signs:
      1.   Permitted Locations:
         a.   On wall or monument signs located:
            (1)   On properties located in any business or industrial zoning
district.
            (2)   On properties with a conditional use permit for religious or
institutional use in any zoning district.
            (3)   On government buildings or sites located in any zoning
district.
      2.   Prohibited Locations:
         a.   On pylon signs.
         b.   As window signs.
         c.   As portable signs.
         d.   On rooftops.
         e.   In residential and agricultural districts, except as allowed in
section
12-1-7(H).
      3.   Setback Requirements: Ten feet (10') from edge of sign to any
property line.
      4.   Dynamic Display Size:
         a.   Twenty-four (24) square feet maximum per property.
         b.   Included in total wall and monument signage square footage
calculations.
      5.   Dynamic display images shall be static.
      6.   Dynamic Display Transition: Scrolling, the appearance of motion,
flashing, animation, motion video, and similar transitions are prohibited.
      7.   Dynamic Display Frequency: One hour minimum between changes in
display transition. Emergency notifications or alerts posted on government
signs are exempt from this Section.
   I.   Menu Board Signs for fast food restaurant uses. Drive-through menu
board signs are allowed for restaurants with a drive through window provided
the requirements in this section are met.
      1.   Location: All drive-through menu board signs shall be single sided
and located adjacent to the drive-through lane and shall not be located in any
required setback. Menu boards signs may be affixed to the building.
      2.   Height: A drive-through menu board sign shall not exceed eight (8)
feet above grade in height.
      3.   Size: A drive-through menu board sign shall not exceed forty (40)
square feet.
      4.   Number: Up to two drive-through menu board signs are permitted per
drive- through lane. The total surface area of the two signs shall not exceed
forty (40) square feet.
      5.   A Drive-through menu board signs shall comply with the following
standards:
         a.   The images, colors, and text may not change more than five (5)
times per day;
         b.   All images, colors, and text shall be static with no flashing,
scrolling, or animation;
         c.   At any time, the business or drive-through is closed to the
public, any Drive- through menu board sign shall be turned off until the
business or drive- through is open to the public;
         d.   Signs with speakers or intercoms shall be designed and located in
a manner to direct noise away from adjoining properties. Speaker noise shall
not be audible to adjacent residential properties; and
         e.   The sign(s) shall not be located as to impair the vision of the
driver of a vehicle traveling either into, out of, or through the drive-through
lane.
   J.   Projecting Signs: Permitted only in business and industrial districts,
subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   The maximum sign area shall be twenty (20) square feet per building
face.
      2.   Not less than eight feet (8') of clearance shall be provided between
the sidewalk elevation and the lowest point of the projecting sign.
      3.   Signs shall project from the face of the building no more than the
lesser of one- third (1/3) of the sidewalk width or four feet (4'). Sidewalk
width shall be measured perpendicular from the face of the building at the
proposed sign location. (Ord. 1082, 5-1-2024)
§ 12-1-8: SIGNS IN AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Farm Identification Sign:
      1.   Shall be Located at Entrance
      2.   Located on Private Property: Shall be located at least three (3)
feet from any property line and prohibited on public rights of way.
      3.   One sign no more than twenty-five (25) square feet
      4.   Maximum Height: The maximum height of a farm area identification
sign shall be ten feet (10').
      5.   Does not require a permit.
   B.   Monument Signs for Places of Worship, Parks, Schools, and Other
Nonresidential Buildings:
      1.   Number: One monument sign with a building permit.
      2.   Size. Sign shall not exceed a total of fifty (50) square feet and
shall not exceed a height often feet (10').
      3.   Location. Signs shall be located at least three (3) feet from any
property line and prohibited on public rights of way.
      4.   Design: The base of the monument sign shall be constructed of class
I materials that compliment those used on the building(s) for which the sign is
located.
      5.   In addition to monument signage, wall signage is permitted provided
that the wall sign area shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet.
   C.   Temporary Signs for Places of Worship, Parks, Schools, and Other
Nonresidential Buildings:
      1.   A maximum of four (4) temporary sign permits may be issued per
calendar year for up to fifteen (15) days each. The temporary sign must be in
the form of a weatherproof banner no larger than thirty-two (32) square feet in
size.
      2.   Location: Securely fastened to pole on the property the business is
located or attached to the principal structure.
      3.   Signs shall be setback a minimum of 25 feet from the edge of the
road.
      4.   Removal After Expiration of Permit: On premises temporary signs must
be removed within twenty-four (24) hours after the expiration of the permit.
      5.   One (1) temporary sign permit may be issued per property at a given
time. (Ord. 1082, 5-1-2024)
§ 12-1-9: SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Entrance Monument Sign:
      1.   Located at Entrance: Shall be located at the entrance to the project
or subdivision.
      2.   Located on Private Property: Shall be located at least three (3)
feet from any property line and prohibited on public rights of way.
      3.   Maximum Permitted: A maximum of two (2) entrance monuments no more
than twenty-five (25) square feet per sign, may be permitted at each project
entrance or subdivision entrance. Two (2) signs are permitted at each project
entrance only to create a gateway effect at opposite corners of the entrance to
the project. Wall signage is permitted provided that the wall sign area shall
not exceed fifty (50) square feet.
      4.   Maximum Height: The maximum height of an entrance monument sign
shall be ten feet (10').
      5.   Multiple-Family Buildings: A multiple-family complex consisting of
three (3) or more structures or ten (10) or more units shall be allowed an
entrance monument sign not to exceed fifty (50) square feet. The base of the
monument sign shall be constructed of class I materials that compliment those
used on the building(s) for which the sign is located.
   B.   Monument Sign for Places of Worship, Parks, Schools, and Other
Nonresidential Buildings: Are permitted one monument sign upon their property
with a building permit and shall meet the following standards.
      1.   Size. Sign shall not exceed a total of fifty (50) square feet and
shall not exceed a height of ten feet (10').
      2.   Location. Signs shall be located at least three (3) feet from any
property line and prohibited on public rights of way.
      3.   Design: The base of the monument sign shall be constructed of class
I materials that compliment those used on the building(s) for which the sign is
located.
      4.   In addition to monument signage, wall signage is permitted provided
that the wall sign area shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet.
   C.   Wall signs.
      1.   Area, maximum allowable area of 70 square feet.
      2.   Location. Wall signs may be placed only on walls facing the street
frontage.
      3.   Lighting. Signs shall not be internally illuminated.
   D.   Temporary Sign for Multi-family, Places of Worship, Parks, Schools, and
Other Nonresidential Buildings:
      1.   A maximum of four (4) temporary sign permits may be issued per
calendar year for up to fifteen (15) days each.
         a.   The temporary sign must be in the form of one (1) weatherproof
banner no larger than thirty-two (32) square feet in size or;
         b.   Up to four (4) yard signs that are no larger than six (6) square
feet each.
      2.   New places of worship, parks, schools, and other nonresidential may
have one temporary sign permit per calendar year shall be issued for no more
than thirty (30) days.
      3.   Removal After Expiration of Permit: On premises temporary signs must
be removed within twenty-four (24) hours after the expiration of the permit.
      4.   Location. Securely fastened to poles on the property the
nonresidential use or multifamily is located or attached to the principal
structure.
      5.   Signs shall not be located in the Right of Way.
      6.   One temporary sign permit may be issued per property at a given
time. (Ord. 1082, 5-1-2024)
§ 12-1-10: SIGNS IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS:
   A.   Monument Sign:
      1.   Number of Signs: One (1) on premises monument sign shall be
permitted per property.
      2.   Location:
         a.   Monument signs shall be no closer than seventy-five feet (75') to
another monument sign.
         b.   No monument sign shall be erected within the clear view triangle.
         c.   Must be at least three (3) feet from all property lines and shall
not be in the right-of-way.
      3.   Size: The size of a monument sign is determined by the gross square
footage of the principal structure located on the property:
 
Principal Structure (Gross Square Feet) Monument
                                        Height  Copy And Graphic (Square Feet)
Greater than 100,000                    15 feet 100
20,001 - 100,000                        15 feet 90
Less than 20,000                        15 feet 70
 
      4.   Design: The base of the monument sign shall be constructed of class
I materials that compliment those used on the building(s) for which the sign is
located.
   B.   Properties or businesses within a commercial building complex may
request one (1) individual and one (1) joint monument sign if they meet the
standards in this section and
11 -2-7.
   C.   Wall Signs:
      1.   The following table indicates maximum wall signage permitted per
tenant wall:
 
Principal Structure Size      Individual Wall Sign Calculation
(Gross Square Feet)
                              200 square feet or 1.25 square feet of sign per
100,001 - 400,000 square feet linear foot of the tenant frontage, whichever is
                              less
                              150 square feet or 1.25 square feet of sign per
20,001 - 100,000 square feet  linear foot of the tenant frontage, whichever is
                              less
                              100 square feet or 1.25 square feet of sign per
Less than 20,000 square feet  linear foot of the tenant frontage, whichever is
                              less
 
      2.   Each exterior wall of each tenant frontage shall be calculated
separately using the wall sign calculation above to determine the amount of
wall signage allowed for that exterior wall.
      3.   Wall signage is limited to a maximum of 3 sides of a principal
structure.
      4.   Each tenant's wall sign on a multi-tenant building shall not extend
closer than two feet (2') from the tenant's lease line.
      5.   Tenant's wall sign shall be individually mounted letters or located
on a raceway that is consistent in color with the wall facade. A box sign may
be used as needed to incorporate the tenant logo.
      6.   Cabinet style wall signs shall be internally illuminated. The light
source shall be entirely enclosed within the sign.
      7.   Wall signs shall not extend above the roofline of any principal
building.
      8.   Sign changeouts require repair to holes or other wall markings left
and painting to match tenant wall facade color.
   D.   Awnings, Canopies, Marquees:
      1.   Signs on awnings, marquees, and canopies shall be considered wall
signs under the terms of this Section and subject to the regulations for said
signs.
         a.   Copy or graphics on awnings, canopies, or marquees shall be
considered as part of the individual wall area calculation.
         b.   An awning may be designated as a sign area as an addition to a
sign on the building facade, provided the awning signage does not exceed the
total sign area allowed.
         c.   The sign displayed on the awning shall not be more than forty
percent (40%) of the awning's principal face.
   E.   On Premises Temporary Signs: Temporary signs may be erected and
maintained in the City only in compliance with this sign code, and with the
following additional provisions:
      1.   Existing Businesses: A maximum of four (4) temporary sign permits
may be issued to each business per calendar year for up to fifteen (15) days
each.
         a.   The temporary sign must be in the form of one (1) weatherproof
banner no larger than thirty-two (32) square feet in size or;
         b.   Up to four (4) individual yard signs that are no larger than six
(6) square feet each.
      2.   New Business or Reopening of an Existing Business or Store Closing:
One temporary sign permit per calendar year shall be issued for no more than
thirty (30) days.
      3.   Removal After Expiration of Permit: On premises temporary signs must
be removed within twenty-four (24) hours after the expiration of the permit.
      4.   Location. Securely fastened to pole on the property the business is
located or attached to the principal structure.
      5.   Signs shall not be located in the Right of Way.
      6.   One (1) temporary sign permit may be issued per property at a given
time. (Ord. 1082, 5-1-2024; amd. Ord. 1098, 4-16-2025)
§ 12-1-11: SIGNS IN INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Monument Sign:
      1.   Number of Signs: One (1) on premises monument sign shall be
permitted at each public road access point.
      2.   Location:
         a.   Monument signs shall be no closer than seventy-five feet (75') to
another monument sign.
         b.   No monument sign shall be erected within the clear view triangle.
      3.   Size: The size of a monument sign is determined by the gross square
footage of the principal structure located on the property:
 
Principal Structure Monument
(Gross Square Feet) Height  Copy And Graphic
                            (Square Feet)
Greater             than     
100,000             15 feet 100
20,001 - 100,000    15 feet 90
Less than 20,000    15 feet 70
 
      4.   Design: The base of the monument sign shall be constructed of class
I materials that compliment those used on the building(s) for which the sign is
located or advertising.
      5.   Internal Directional signage: Shall be permitted without a permit up
to 12 sq ft per sign and shall not count towards signage allowance.
   B.   Properties or businesses within a commercial building complex may
request an individual or joint monument sign if they meet the standards in this
section and
11-2-7.
   C.   Wall Signs:
      1.   The following table indicates maximum wall signage permitted per
tenant wall:
 
Principal Structure Size      Individual Wall Sign Calculation
(Gross Square Feet)
100,001+ square feet          200 square feet
Less than 100,000 square feet 150 square feet
 
      2.   Each exterior wall of each tenant frontage shall be calculated
separately using the wall sign calculation above to determine the amount of
wall signage allowed for that exterior wall.
      3.   Wall signage is limited to a maximum of 3 sides of a principal
structure.
      4.   Each tenant's wall sign on a multi-tenant building shall not extend
closer than two feet (2') from the tenant's lease line.
      5.   Tenant's wall sign shall be individually mounted letters or located
on a raceway that is consistent in color with the wall facade. A box sign may
be used as needed to incorporate the tenant logo.
      6.   Cabinet style wall signs shall be internally illuminated. The light
source shall be entirely enclosed within the sign.
      7.   Wall signs shall not extend above the roofline of any principal
building.
      8.   Sign changeouts require repair to holes or other wall markings left
and painting to match tenant wall facade color. Awnings, Canopies, Marquees:
      9.   Signs on awnings, marquees, and canopies shall be considered wall
signs under the terms of this Section and subject to the regulations for said
signs.
         a.   Copy or graphics on awnings, canopies, or marquees shall be
considered as part of the individual wall area calculation.
         b.   An awning may be designated as a sign area as an alternative or
addition to a sign on the building facade, provided the awning signage does not
exceed the total sign area allowed.
         c.   The sign displayed on the awning shall not be more than forty
percent (40%) of the awning's principal face.
   D.   On Premises Temporary Signs: Temporary signs may be erected and
maintained in the
city only in compliance with this sign code, and with the following additional
provisions:
      1.   Existing Business: A maximum of four (4) temporary sign permits may
be issued to each business per calendar year for up to fifteen (15) days each.
         a.   The temporary sign must be in the form of one (1) weatherproof
banner no larger than thirty-two (32) square feet in size or;
         b.   Up to four (4) yard signs that are no larger than six (6) square
feet each.
      2.   New Business or Reopening of an Existing Business or Store Closing:
One (1) temporary sign permit per calendar year shall be issued for no more
than thirty (30) days.
      3.   Removal After Expiration of Permit: On premises temporary signs must
be removed within twenty-four (24) hours after the expiration of the permit.
      4.   Location. Securely fastened to pole on the property the business is
located or attached to the principal structure.
      5.   Signs shall not be located in the Right of Way.
      6.   One (1) temporary sign permit may be issued per property at a given
time. (Ord. 1082, 5-1-2024)
§ 12-1-12: MISCELLANEOUS SIGN PROVISIONS:
   A.   It is recognized that signs exist within the City that were lawful
before these sign regulations were adopted but are prohibited under the
regulations of this article. Such nonconforming signs are allowed to continue
as nonconforming signs provided that such signs are safe, are maintained so as
not to be unsightly, and have not been abandoned or removed. Nonconforming
signs are subject to compliance with the following provisions:
      1.   Nonconforming signs may not be enlarged or altered in a way that
increases the sign's nonconformity.
      2.   If the use of the nonconforming sign or sign structure is
discontinued for a period of one year, the sign or sign structure may not be
reconstructed or used except in compliance with the provisions of this article.
      3.   Should a nonconforming sign or sign structure be damaged, or
structure be destroyed by any means to an extent greater than 50% of its market
value and all required permits for its reconstruction have not been applied for
within 180 days of when the sign or sign Structure was damaged, it may not be
reconstructed or used except in compliance with the provisions of this article.
      4.   If a nonconforming sign or sign structure is moved for any reason
for any distance whatsoever, it must thereafter comply with the regulations of
this article.
      5.   Existing signs on the site of a use that is not permitted in the
zone in which the use is located may not be enlarged, expanded or moved except
in changing the sign to a sign permitted in the subject zone.
      6.   When a building loses its nonconforming status all signs devoted to
the building must be removed and all signs painted directly on the building
must be repainted in a neutral color or a color that matches the building.
   B.   Maintenance and Repair Requirements:
      1.   All signs, together with all their supports, braces, guys, and
anchors shall be kept in repair and in proper state of preservation.
      2.   The display surfaces of all signs and tier supports shall be kept
neatly painted or posted at all times.
      3.   All signs which are unsafe, dangerous, and/or unsightly shall be
repaired or removed. Unsafe or dangerous signs shall be removed or otherwise
properly secured by the property owner and/or sign owner upon receipt of notice
to do so given by the City. Any abandoned, unsafe, or illegal sign is hereby
declared to be a danger to the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of
Cottage Grove and is declared to be a public nuisance subject to abatement and
assessment, except that legally established nonconforming signs shall not be
abated until they have been abandoned for more than one year. Unsightly signs
must be repaired or removed within fifteen (15) days of notification. The term
"unsightly" shall mean a condition in which the sign has deteriorated to the
point where at least one-fourth (1/4) of the surface area of the name,
identification, description, display, illustration, or other symbol is no
longer clearly recognizable at a distance of twenty feet (20'); or where paint
is peeling, chipping, or flaking from the structure surface, or where the sign
has developed significant rust, corrosion, rotting, or other deterioration in
the physical appearance.
      4.   Every sign and the immediate surrounding premises shall be
maintained by the owner or person in charge thereof in a clean, sanitary, and
inoffensive condition and free and clear of all obnoxious substances, rubbish,
and weeds. Notice shall be given to the Community Development Director of any
change in sign user, sign owner, or owner of the property on which the sign is
located. (Ord. 1082, 5-1-2024)
