DUNDAS, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-6 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024 S-6, passed 12-9-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
ORDINANCE 2018-08
CITY OF DUNDAS COUNTY OF RICE, MINNESOTA
An Ordinance Enacting a Code of Ordinance for the City of Dundas Amending,
Reinstating, Revising, Updating, Codifying and Compiling Certain Ordinances of
the City Dealing with the Subjects Embraced in the Code of Ordinances, and
Providing Penalties for the Violation of the Code of Ordinances
   WHEREAS, Minnesota Statutes §§ 415.02 and 415.021 authorize the city to
cause its ordinances to be codified and printed in a book;
NOW THEREFORE, The City Council of Dundas ("the City"), Minnesota, ordains:
Section 1. The general ordinances of the city as amended, restated, revised,
updated, codified, and compiled in book form, including penalties for the
violations of various provisions thereof, are adopted and shall constitute the
Code of Ordinances of the City of Dundas. This Code of Ordinances also adopts,
by reference, certain statutes and administrative rules of the State of
Minnesota as named in the Code of Ordinances.
Section 2. The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following titles:
         Title I - General Provisions
         Title III - Administration
         Title V - Public Works
         Title VII - Traffic Code
         Title IX - General Regulations
         Title XI - Business Regulations
         Title XIII - General Offenses
         Title XV - Land Usage
Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to subjects treated in the Code of
Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this
ordinance, except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in part in
the Code of Ordinances; provided this repeal shall not affect any offense
committed or penalty incurred, or any right established prior to the effective
date of this ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions of
ordinances levying taxes; appropriating money; annexing or detaching territory;
establishing franchises; granting special rights to certain persons;
authorizing public improvements; authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money; authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property;
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use; or
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
this repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code of Ordinances.
All fees established in prior ordinances shall remain in effect unless amended
in this Code of Ordinances, or until an ordinance adopting a fee schedule is
adopted or amended.
Section 4. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances shall be a sufficient
publication of any ordinance included in it and not previously published in the
city's official newspaper. The city clerk shall cause a substantial quantity of
the Code of Ordinances to be printed for general distribution to the public at
actual cost, and shall furnish a copy of the Code of Ordinances to the County
Law Library or its designated depository. The official copy of this Code of
Ordinances shall be marked and be kept in the office of the city clerk.
Section 5. The Code of Ordinances is declared to be prima facie evidence of the
law of the City of Dundas and shall be received in evidence as provided by
Minnesota Statutes by the courts of the State of Minnesota.
Section 6. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances, and the Code of
Ordinances itself, shall take effect upon publication of this ordinance in the
City's official newspaper.
ADOPTED by the City Council of Dundas, Minnesota, on this 10th day of December
2018.
CITY OF DUNDAS BY:   ATTESTED:
\s\ Glenn Switzer     \s\ John McCarthy
Glenn Switzer, Mayor   John McCarthy, Administrator/Clerk
Publication of Summary in Faribault Daily News on: December 15, 2018
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules and supplements by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
 
   
10.98   Supplemental administrative penalties
   
10.99   General penalty and enforcement
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the City, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Dundas City Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of the City shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance.
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The City of Dundas, Minnesota. The term CITY, when used in this
code, may also be used to refer to the City Council and its authorized
representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This City code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. The County of Rice, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in those cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the City unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof
and, as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the City exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the City for the transaction of all City
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection. The Clerk-Treasurer shall provide a copy
for sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES AND SUPPLEMENTS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   It is the intention of the City Council that all future amendments to
any state or federal rules and statutes adopted by reference in this code or
referenced in this code are hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if
they had been in existence at the time this code was adopted, unless there is
clear intention expressed in the code to the contrary.
   (B)   It is the intention of the City Council that all future supplements
are hereby adopted as if they had been in existence at the time this code was
enacted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the City’s Police Department or the
County Sheriff or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Administrator shall have the authority to administer and enforce
this code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain individuals
designated within the code or by the Administrator or City Council shall have
the authority to administer and enforce the provisions specified. All and any
person or persons designated may issue a citation in lieu of arrest or
continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Administrator and any City official or employee designated by
this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may with
the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or resident
of a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or otherwise
enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Administrator, peace officer or any employee or official charged with the duty
of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable
cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting
the inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only
to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (E)   Every licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property
within the City shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or entrance to
the property by the City Administrator or any other authorized City officer or
employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are being complied with
and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit the inspection
of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for termination of any and all
permits, licenses or City service to the property. Mailed notice shall be given
to the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of the property,
stating the grounds for the termination, and the licensee, owner, resident or
other person in control of the property shall be given an opportunity to appear
before the City Administrator to object to the termination before it occurs,
subject to appeal of the Administrator’s decision to the City Council at a
regularly scheduled or special meeting.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the City to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
§ 10.98 SUPPLEMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to those administrative penalties established in this code
and the enforcement powers granted in §
10.20 of this chapter, the City Council is authorized to create by resolution,
adopted by a majority of the members of the Council, supplemental
administrative penalties. The resolution may not proscribe administrative
penalties for traffic offenses designated by M.S. § 169.999, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (B)   These administrative penalty procedures in this section are intended
to provide the public and the City with an informal, cost effective and
expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
certain provisions of this code. The procedures are intended to be voluntary on
the part of those who have been charged with those offenses.
   (C)   Administrative penalties for violations of various provisions of the
code, other than those penalties established in the code or in statutes that
are adopted by reference, may be established from time to time by resolution of
a majority of the members of the City Council. In order to be effective, an
administrative penalty for a particular violation must be established before
the violation occurred.
   (D)   In the discretion of the peace officer, City Clerk-Treasurer or other
person giving notice of an alleged violation of a provision of this code, in a
written notice of an alleged violation, sent by first class mail to the person
who is alleged to have violated the code, the person giving notice may request
the payment of a voluntary administrative penalty for the violation directly to
the City Clerk-Treasurer within 14 days of the notice of the violation. In the
sole discretion of the person giving the notice of the alleged violation, the
time for payment may be extended an additional 14 days, whether or not
requested by the person to whom the notice has been given. In addition to the
administrative penalty, the person giving notice may request in the notice to
the alleged violator to adopt a compliance plan to correct the situation
resulting in the alleged violation and may provide that if the alleged violator
corrects the situation resulting in the alleged violation within the time
specified in the notice, that the payment of the administrative penalty will be
waived.
   (E)   At any time before the payment of the administrative penalty is due,
the person who has been given notice of an alleged violation may request to
appear before the City Council to contest the request for payment of the
penalty. After a hearing before the Council, the Council may determine to
withdraw the request for payment or to renew the request for payment. Because
the payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary, there shall be no
appeal from the decision of the Council.
   (F)   At any time after the date the payment of the administrative penalty
is due, if the administrative penalty remains unpaid or the situation creating
the alleged violation remains uncorrected, the City, through its Attorney, may
bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this code. Likewise,
the City, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first instance,
rather than requesting the payment of an administrative penalty, even if a
penalty for the particular violation has been established by Council
resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the City for the alleged violation.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including state statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including state statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   Pursuant to M.S. § 631.48, as it may be amended from time to time, in
either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs of
prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the City to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section or in §
10.98 of this chapter, if any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with
any provision of this code, the Council or any City official designated by it,
may institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct
or abate the violation.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   City Council meetings
   
30.02   Presiding officer
   
30.03   Minutes
   
30.04   Order of business
   
30.05   Voting
   
30.06   Ordinances, resolutions, motions, petitions and communications
   
30.07   Suspension or amendment of rules
   
30.08   Compensation of Mayor, Council members
   
30.09   Compensation of officers and employees
   
30.10   Quorum for conducting business
   
30.11   Fees and charges
§ 30.01 CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held
on the second and fourth Mondays of each calendar month at 7:00 p.m. A
regularly scheduled meeting may be postponed to a later date or time or
canceled by motion of a majority present at any prior meeting. A regular
meeting falling upon a holiday shall be held on the next following business day
at the same time and place. All meetings, including special and adjourned
meetings, shall be held in the City Hall unless the City Council decides
otherwise at a prior meeting, or meeting in the City Hall is impossible, or not
reasonably practical.
   (B)   Special meetings.
      (1)   The Mayor or any two members of the City Council may call a special
meeting of the City Council upon at least 24-hours’ written notice to each
member of the City Council. This notice shall be delivered personally to each
member or shall be left at the member’s usual place of residence with some
responsible person.
      (2)   Pursuant to M.S. § 13D.01 through 13D.07, as it may be amended from
time to time, written notice of any special meeting shall be posted giving the
date, time, place and purpose of the meeting at least three days before the
meeting. Written notice shall be mailed at least three days before the meeting
to anyone who has filed a written request for notice of special meetings.
      (3)   In calculating the three days, if the last day falls on a Saturday,
Sunday or legal holiday, the next regular business day shall be counted as the
third day.
   (C)   Emergency meetings. Notice of emergency meetings shall be given as
required by M.S. § 13D.04, as it may be amended from time to time. An emergency
meeting is a meeting defined by M.S. § 13D.04, as it may be amended from time
to time.
   (D)   Initial meeting. At the first regular City Council meeting in January
of each year, the City Council shall:
      (1)   Designate the depositories of City funds;
      (2)   Designate the official newspaper;
      (3)   Choose one of the Council members as Acting Mayor, who shall
perform the duties of the Mayor during the disability or absence of the Mayor
from the City or, in case of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, until a
successor has been appointed and qualifies;
      (4)   Appoint officers and employees and members of departments, boards,
commissions and committees as may be necessary; and
      (5)   Establish and appoint Council members to those City Council
committees as are deemed appropriate for the efficient and orderly management
of the City.
   (E)   Public meetings. All City Council meetings, including special,
emergency and adjourned meetings and meetings of City Council committees, shall
be conducted in accordance with the state’s Open Meeting Law, M.S. §
(Prior Code, § 300.01) (Ord. 2006-01, passed - -; Ord. 2016-01, passed 1-11-
2016; Ord. 2021-01, passed 1-25-2021)
§ 30.02 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   Who presides. The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City
Council. In the absence of the Mayor, the Acting Mayor shall preside. In the
absence of both, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall call the meeting to order and
shall preside until the Council members present at the meeting choose one of
their number to act temporarily as presiding officer.
   (B)   Procedure. The presiding officer shall preserve order, enforce any
rules of procedure adopted by the City Council, and determine without debate,
subject to the final decision of the City Council on appeal, all questions of
procedure and order. In all procedural points not covered by this chapter, the
Council proceedings shall be governed by Robert’s Rules of Order.
   (C)   Appeal procedure. Any member may appeal to the City Council a ruling
of the presiding officer. If the appeal is seconded, the member may speak once
solely on the question involved and the presiding officer may explain the
ruling, but no other Council member shall participate in the discussion. The
appeal shall be sustained if it is approved by a majority of the members
present, including the presiding officer.
(Prior Code, § 300.02)
§ 30.03 MINUTES.
   (A)   Generally. Minutes of each City Council meeting shall be kept by the
City Clerk-Treasurer or, in the City Clerk-Treasurer’s absence, by the Deputy
City Clerk-Treasurer. In the absence of both, the presiding officer shall
appoint a secretary pro tem. Ordinances, resolutions and claims need not be
recorded in full in the minutes if they appear in other permanent records of
the City Clerk-Treasurer and can be accurately identified from the description
given in the minutes.
   (B)   Approval. The minutes of each meeting shall be taken by the City
Clerk-Treasurer. At the next regular City Council meeting, approval of the
minutes shall be considered by the City Council. The minutes need not be read
aloud, but the presiding officer shall call for any additions or corrections.
If there is no objection to a proposed addition or correction, it may be made
without a vote of the City Council. If there is an objection, the City Council
shall vote upon the addition or correction. If there are no additions or
corrections, the minutes shall stand approved.
   (C)   The written minutes of the Council shall constitute the official
minutes of the City.
(Prior Code, § 300.03) (Ord. 2023-01, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 30.04 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Order established. Each meeting of the City Council shall convene at
the time and place appointed therefor. City Council business shall be conducted
in the following order unless varied by the presiding officer:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Roll call;
      (3)   Approval of minutes;
      (4)   Consent agenda;
      (5)   Regular agenda;
      (6)   Reports of officers, boards and committees; and
      (7)   Adjournment.
(Prior Code, § 300.04) (Ord. 2023-01, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 30.05 VOTING.
   The votes of the Council members on any question may be taken in any manner
which signifies the intention of the individual members, and the votes of the
Council members on any action taken shall be recorded in the minutes. The vote
of each Council member shall be recorded on each appropriation of money, except
for payments of judgments, claims and amounts fixed by statute. If any Council
member is present, but does not vote, the minutes, as to his or her name, shall
be marked “Present-Not Voting”.
(Prior Code, § 300.05)
§ 30.06 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS, PETITIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Signing and publication proof. Every ordinance and resolution passed
by the City Council shall be signed by the Mayor, attested by the City Clerk-
Treasurer and filed by the City Clerk-Treasurer in the ordinance or resolution
book. Proof of publication of every ordinance shall be attached and filed with
the ordinance.
   (B)   Repeals and amendments.
      (1)   Every ordinance or resolution repealing a previous ordinance or
resolution, or a section or subdivision thereof, shall give the number, if any,
and the title of the ordinance or code number of the ordinance or resolution to
be repealed in whole or in part.
      (2)   Each ordinance or resolution amending an existing ordinance or
resolution or part thereof shall set forth in full each amended section or
division as it will read with the amendment.
(Prior Code, § 300.06)
§ 30.07 SUSPENSION OR AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   These rules may be suspended only by a two-thirds vote of the members
present and voting.
(Prior Code, § 300.07)
§ 30.08 COMPENSATION OF MAYOR, COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   The compensation of the Mayor and the compensation of each Council
member shall be established from time to time by City Council ordinance
pursuant to M.S. § 415.11, as it may be amended from time to time. Compensation
shall be reviewed by the Council at least every two years. Increases in
compensation must be adopted no later than August 1 in a municipal election
year in order to become effective the following year.
   (B)   The salary of the Mayor shall be $500 per month. The salary for City
Council members shall be $400 per month. Salaries shall be paid monthly and
include payment for attendance at all meetings and committee assignments
throughout the month. The City Council may authorize reimbursement or the
payment of per diem to Council members, for attendance at conferences and
training seminars, on an individual case-by-case basis.
(Prior Code, § 300.08) (Ord. 2.02, passed 9-2000; Ord. 2002-08, passed - -2002;
Ord. 2014-05, passed 6-23-2014)
§ 30.09 COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Officers and employees of the City shall be compensated at a rate as
established from time to time by City Council ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 300.09)
§ 30.10 QUORUM FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the entire City Council. A
quorum shall be necessary to transact the business of the City Council.
   (B)   If no quorum is present, the City Council shall not thereby stand
adjourned, but the members present shall adjourn or recess the City Council by
a majority vote.
(Prior Code, § 300.10)
§ 30.11 FEES AND CHARGES.
   The City Council may enact an ordinance establishing those fees and charges
that are authorized by this code. Until that ordinance becomes effective, all
fees and charges established by ordinance or resolution prior to the adoption
of this code shall remain in effect. All fees and charges established by the
ordinance establishing fees and charges may be amended from time to time by
amendment of that ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 300.11) (Ord. 2.01, passed - -1985; Ord. 2.02, passed - -1985)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
34.01
CHAPTER 31: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Mayor
   
31.01   Term of office
Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.15   Joint position
   
31.16   Duties
   
31.17   Salary
   
31.18   Surety bond
   
31.19   Deputy Clerk-Treasurer
MAYOR
§ 31.01 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Mayor for the City shall serve a four-year term.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 6-28-2010)
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 31.15 JOINT POSITION.
   (A)   Pursuant to M.S. § 412.591, as it may be amended from time to time,
the combined position of City Clerk-Treasurer is hereby established.
   (B)   The City Council shall appoint the City Clerk-Treasurer annually.
(Prior Code, § 305.01)
§ 31.16 DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall have all of the duties and obligations
established by state statute. Before commencing duties of the office, the City
Clerk-Treasurer shall provide a bond in favor of the City as required by
statute, which shall continue during the term of the City Clerk-Treasurer’s
office.
   (B)   In addition to other services which are not inconsistent with
statutory duties and obligations, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall:
      (1)   Keep a minute book, noting thereon all proceedings of the City
Council;
      (2)   Maintain the City’s code and record all ordinances and amendments
to ordinances adopted by the City Council;
      (3)   Maintain an account book in which the Clerk-Treasurer shall enter
all money transactions of the City, including the date and reason for receipt
or payment of all funds;
      (4)   Prepare a detailed statement of the financial affairs of the City
showing all moneys received, sources from which received, dates and amounts
thereof; all moneys paid, to whom and for what purpose paid; all outstanding
and unpaid orders, to whom issued, and for what purpose; all moneys remaining
in the treasury; and all other matters necessary to accurately show and reflect
the true financial condition of the City;
      (5)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall file all financial statements in his
or her office for public inspection and shall publish the same, as required by
state statutes, each year in the official newspaper of the City;
      (6)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall collect, receipt for and safely keep
all moneys belonging to the City; shall promptly enter in the treasury records
provided for that purpose, an accounting of all moneys received and disbursed
in the capacity of Treasurer, showing sources and objects thereof, with the
date of each transaction;
      (7)   The City Clerk-Treasurer must receive and safely keep all City
money, must promptly enter all receipts in an account book, showing the date,
source, kind and amount of each payment; must immediately deposit all moneys in
the City’s official depository;
      (8)   The City Clerk-Treasurer must maintain all books and records
available for inspection at any time;
      (9)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare and file a detailed account
of that year’s receipts and disbursements with the City Council; and
      (10)   When leaving office, the City Clerk-Treasurer must deliver all
City papers, books and moneys to the new City Clerk-Treasurer as soon as he or
she qualifies for office and begins the term. An outgoing City Clerk-Treasurer
must close the books completely before passing them on to a subsequent City
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 305.02)
§ 31.17 SALARY.
   (A)   The salary of the City Clerk-Treasurer shall be fixed by the City
Council from time to time.
   (B)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall be considered an “at will” employee and
may be replaced at any time with or without cause, pursuant to the decision of
the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 305.03)
§ 31.18 SURETY BOND.
   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall furnish a corporation surety bond, in the
amount of at least $100,000, or a greater amount as established by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 305.04)
§ 31.19 DEPUTY CLERK-TREASURER.
   The City Clerk-Treasurer may, with the consent of the City Council, appoint
a Deputy Clerk-Treasurer who may perform the functions of the City Clerk-
Treasurer, in the absence of the City Clerk-Treasurer. The Deputy Clerk-
Treasurer may be discharged by the City Clerk-Treasurer, only upon the approval
of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 305.05)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
32.01   Establishment
   
32.02   Composition
   
32.03   Organization, meetings, minutes and expenditures
   
32.04   Powers and duties; Comprehensive Plan
Police Department
   
32.15   Continuance; minimum standards
   
32.16   Chief of Police
   
32.17   Duties of police
   
32.18   Uniform and badge
   
32.19   Extra police
   
32.20   Police Department Policies Manual adopted
Volunteer Fire Department
   
32.35   Volunteer Fire Department authorized
Park and Recreation Advisory Board
   
32.50   Establishment
   
32.51   Composition
   
32.52   Organization, meetings, minutes
   
32.53   Powers and responsibilities
   
32.54   Preparation of program and budget
   
32.55   Finances of Board
Cross-reference:
   City Council, see
Ch. 30
   Zoning, see
Ch. 154
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Planning Commission for the City is hereby established. The Planning
Commission shall be the City planning agency authorized by M.S. § 462.354(1),
as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 301.01)
§ 32.02 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven voting members.
      (1)   Three members shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by the
City Council who are residents of the City.
      (2)   Three members shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by the
City Council who are residents or owners of property within Bridgewater
Township.
      (3)   One member shall be a City Council member or the City Clerk-
Treasurer, to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council.
This member shall serve for a one-year term, to expire on December 31 of each
year.
      (4)   (a)   All appointees shall be appointed to serve staggered terms of
four years, except as noted below, commencing on January 1 in the year of
appointment. Upon expiration of a term, the appointee shall continue until
reappointed or until a successor is appointed. Absences from any three meetings
in a year, unless excused by the Chair, constitute a vacancy. In the event of
any vacancy, the Mayor shall appoint, and the City Council shall approve, a
person to complete the unexpired term.
         (b)   The members of the Planning Commission to be appointed from
Bridgewater Township shall be nominated by the Bridgewater Town Board. Two
individuals shall be nominated for each open position.
   (B)   Each of the seven regular Planning Commission members shall have equal
voting privileges. Any member may be removed by a four-fifths vote of the City
Council. A quorum consists of at least five regular members.
   (C)   Regular Planning Commission members shall be paid a stipend according
to City policy, as amended from time to time by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 301.02) (Ord. 2004-03, passed - -; Ord. 2004-07, passed - -;
Ord. 2018-01, passed 1-8-2018)
§ 32.03 ORGANIZATION, MEETINGS, MINUTES AND EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   At its first regular meeting of each year, the Planning Commission
shall elect a Chairperson, a and Vice-Chairperson from among its appointed
members, each for a term of one year, to expire on December 31 of each year.
The Planning Commission may create and fill other offices as it may determine.
   (B)   The Planning Commission establish regular meeting times at the time
and place as it may fix by resolution. Special meetings may be called at any
time by the Chairperson or, in the case of the Chairperson’s absence, by the
Vice-Chairperson in accordance with the Minnesota Open Meeting Law.
   (C)   Written minutes of meetings shall be kept and filed with the City
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 301.03) (Ord. 2018-01, passed 1-8-2018)
§ 32.04 POWERS AND DUTIES; COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The Planning Commission shall have the powers and duties given to it by
statute or ordinance. The Planning Commission shall also exercise the duties
conferred upon it by the 2004 Orderly Annexation Agreement between the City and
Bridgewater Township. All of the Planning Commission’s actions shall be
advisory to the City Council, except with regard to the Annexation Reserve
District, for which the Planning Commission is the planning and zoning
authority pursuant to M.S. § 414.0325, subd. 5, as it may be amended from time
to time.
(Prior Code, § 301.04) (Ord. 19.01, passed - -1985; Ord. 2003-12, passed - -;
Ord. 2018-01, passed 1-8-2018)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.15 CONTINUANCE; MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   The Police Department of the City is hereby continued. The head of the
Police Department shall be known as the Chief of Police and the number of
additional members of the Police Department, together with their ranks and
titles, shall be determined by the City Council by resolution. The compensation
to be paid to members of the Police Department shall be fixed by the City
Council. Members of the Police Department shall be appointed by the City
Council.
   (B)   All police officers shall meet the minimum standards for licensing as
a peace officer as established by the state’s Peace Officers Standards and
Training Board and have a current and valid peace officer license at the time
of appointment. All police officers shall retain this license during their
employment as a police officer with the City and will be subject to discharge
if the license is suspended, revoked or becomes invalid for any reason. In
addition, all police officers must have a valid Minnesota vehicle operator’s
license and must be insurable as a vehicle driver by the City’s automobile
insurance carrier.
(Prior Code, § 302.01)
§ 32.16 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall have supervision and control of the Police
Department and its members. The Chief of Police shall be responsible for the
proper training and discipline of the members of the Police Department. The
Chief of Police shall be responsible for the keeping of adequate records and
shall report to the City Council on the needs of the Police Department and its
work. Every member of the Police Department is subordinate to the Chief of
Police and shall obey the instructions of the Chief of Police and any superior
officer. The City Council may designate one of the police officers as Acting
Chief, who shall have all the powers and duties of the Chief of Police during
the absence or disability of the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 302.02)
§ 32.17 DUTIES OF POLICE.
   Members of the Police Department shall enforce the laws applicable to the
City, bring violators before the court, and make complaints for offenses coming
to their knowledge. Members of the Police Department shall serve processes on
behalf of the City and shall serve those notices as may be required by the City
Council or other authority. When the City is not a party to the proceedings
involved in the process or notice, the officer shall collect the same fees as
provided by law. All fees shall be paid into the City Treasury.
(Prior Code, § 302.03) (Ord. 2.03, passed - -1985)
§ 32.18 UNIFORM AND BADGE.
   (A)   Each member of the Police Department shall, while on duty, wear a
suitable badge and uniform furnished by the City; except that, the Chief of
Police may authorize the performance of specific duties while not in uniform.
   (B)   When a member terminates membership in the Police Department, the
member shall immediately deliver to the City the badge, uniform and all other
property of the City.
(Prior Code, § 302.04)
§ 32.19 EXTRA POLICE.
   In case of riot or other law enforcement emergency, the Chief of Police may
appoint for a specified time as many emergency assistants to the Chief of
Police as may be necessary for the maintenance of law and order. During the
term of appointment, the emergency assistants shall have only those powers and
perform only those duties as shall be specifically assigned by the Chief of
Police and which are permitted by law.
(Prior Code, § 302.05)
§ 32.20 POLICE DEPARTMENT POLICIES MANUAL ADOPTED.
   The Police Department Manual, as amended, containing the general policies,
procedures and rules for operation of the Police Department of the City is
hereby adopted as the official departmental policy manual of the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 302.06)
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.35 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT AUTHORIZED.
   The City shall contract for the provision of fire department services with
another municipality which is willing to provide fire protection services to
all citizens and property of the City.
(Prior Code, § 302.20)
PARK AND RECREATION ADVISORY BOARD
§ 32.50 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created a Park and Recreation Advisory Board for the City,
pursuant to the authority granted in M.S. §§ 471.15 et seq. and 448.56, as they
may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 304.01)
§ 32.51 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Park and Recreation Advisory Board shall consist of five or seven
voting members as determined by the City Council.
      (1)   One member shall be a City Council member, to be appointed by the
Mayor with the approval of the City Council. This member shall serve for a one-
year term, to expire on December 31 of each year.
      (2)   All other members shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by
the City Council who are either residents, owners of property or owners of a
business within the City limits.
      (3)   All appointees, except the City Council member, shall be appointed
to serve staggered terms of three years, commencing on January 1 in the year of
appointment. Upon expiration of a term, the appointee shall continue until
reappointed or until a successor is appointed. Absences from any three meetings
in a year, unless excused by the Chair, constitute a vacancy. In the event of
any vacancy, the Mayor shall appoint and the City Council shall approve a
person to complete the unexpired term.
   (B)   All members of the Park and Recreation Advisory Board have voting
privileges. Any member may be removed by a four-fifths vote of the City
Council. A majority of the Board constitutes a quorum.
   (C)   Regular Park and Recreation Advisory Board members shall be paid a
stipend according to City policy, as amended from time to time by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 304.02)
§ 32.52 ORGANIZATION, MEETINGS, MINUTES.
   (A)   At its first regular meeting of each year, the Park and Recreation
Advisory Board shall elect a Chairperson, a Vice-Chairperson and a Secretary
from among its appointed members, each for a term of one year. The Park and
Recreation Advisory Board may create and fill other offices as it may
determine.
   (B)   The Park and Recreation Advisory Board shall meet as necessary at the
time and place as it may fix by resolution. Special meetings may be called at
any time by the Chairperson or, in the case of the Chairperson’s absence, by
the Vice-Chairperson, in accordance with the Minnesota Open Meeting Law.
   (C)   Written minutes shall be kept and filed with City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 304.03) (Ord. 2018-02, passed 1-8-2018)
§ 32.53 POWERS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Park and Recreation Advisory Board shall have the responsibility
to advise the City Council and staff in matters pertaining to the program of
public recreation and parks in the City.
   (B)   The Board shall be responsible for advising and supporting sound
cooperation and coordination with other City departments, and civic or
community groups in the advancement of sound recreation and park programming.
The City Council shall determine what land is to be acquired for recreational
and park purposes; what land the Board shall be permitted to use in carrying on
its recreational and park programs; and what buildings or other permanent
structures are to be constructed upon the lands.
   (C)   The Board shall:
      (1)   Recommend policies governing the use of park facilities in the
City;
      (2)   Act in an advisory capacity to the City Council and other
governmental departments;
      (3)   Recommend to the City Administrator the employment of employees
necessary to carry on parks and recreation activities within the City;
      (4)   Recommend policies and procedures pertaining to all recreational
programs and City parks, including annual budgets, public awareness, fees and
charges and program policies;
      (5)   Recommend acceptance of gifts for public park and recreational
purposes; and
      (6)   Recommend contracts for the provision of recreational services by
the City to other entities and for cooperative recreational services between
the City and such other entities.
   (D)   No expenditures by the Park and Recreation Advisory Board shall be
made unless and until authorized for the purpose by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 304.04)
§ 32.54 PREPARATION OF PROGRAM AND BUDGET.
   The Board shall each year, prior to August 15, recommend a suggested capital
improvements plan for public park and recreation activities for the next five
calendar years.
(Prior Code, § 304.05)
§ 32.55 FINANCES OF BOARD.
   For the purpose of financing the public recreation and park programs in the
City, there shall be accounts established in the City Treasury. No
disbursements shall be made from these accounts unless approved for payment by
the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 304.06)
CHAPTER 33: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
33.01   Policy and purpose
   
33.02   Definitions
   
33.03   Emergency management organization
   
33.04   Powers and duties of Director
   
33.05   Local emergencies
   
33.06   Emergency regulations
   
33.07   Emergency management; a government function
   
33.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in order
to ensure that preparations of the City will be adequate to deal with those
disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to protect the
public peace, health and safety, and to preserve the lives and property of the
people of the City, it is hereby found and declared to be necessary:
   (A)   To establish a City emergency management organization responsible for
City planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters;
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between the City and other
political subdivisions of the state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency preparedness functions; and
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
(Prior Code, § 303.01)
§ 33.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT includes those activities sometimes referred to as CIVIL DEFENSE
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in City-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from City
departments, authorized volunteers and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
City-level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides City liaison and coordination with federal, state and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
(Prior Code, § 303.02)
§ 33.03 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is hereby created within the City government an emergency management
organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director shall be
appointed by the Mayor, with approval of the City Council, for an indefinite
term and may be removed by him or her at any time. The Director shall serve
with a salary as established by the City Council and shall be paid his or her
necessary expenses. The Director shall have direct responsibility for the
organization, administration and operation of the emergency preparedness
organization, subject to the direction and control of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 303.03)
§ 33.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director, with the consent of the Council, shall represent the
City on any regional or state conference for emergency management. The Director
shall develop proposed mutual aid agreements with other political subdivisions
of the state for reciprocal emergency management aid and assistance in an
emergency too great to be dealt with unassisted, and shall present these
agreements to the Council for its action. These arrangements shall be
consistent with the state’s emergency plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources and facilities of the City as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for the
emergency preparedness of the City and shall present the plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty
of all City agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the City to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may
be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the
emergency management activities of the City to the end that they shall be
consistent and fully integrated with the emergency plans of the federal
government and the state and correlated with emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the state and City emergency plan, the Director
shall institute training programs, public information programs, and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the City emergency plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the City to the
maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all City departments
and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate with and
extend services and facilities to the City’s emergency management organization
and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or agency in
cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning and
programming of those emergency activities as will involve the utilization of
the facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those City departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the City and state. To the extent that
emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular City department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the City and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency operational capability in the several services as
provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 303.04)
§ 33.05 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor, or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three
days, except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order, or proclamation
declaring, continuing or terminating a local emergency, shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster plans and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
(Prior Code, § 303.05)
§ 33.06 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary, to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may, by resolution, promulgate regulations,
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting: the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance and safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health,
fire and safety regulations, drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training and all other matters which are required to protect public
safety, health and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited; and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer. A copy
shall be kept posted and available for public inspection during business hours.
Notice of the existence of these regulations and their availability for
inspection at the City Clerk-Treasurer’s office shall be conspicuously posted
at the front of the City Hall or other headquarters of the City or at other
places in the affected area as the Council shall designate in the resolution.
By resolution, the Council may modify or rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time. If
not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after
its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule or regulation inconsistent with an
emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency, the City is, under the provisions of M.S.
§ 12.31, as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding any
statutory or charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council
acting within or without the corporate limits of the City, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster. The City may exercise these powers in
the light of the exigencies of the disaster without compliance with the time-
consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the
performance of public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of
supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies and the appropriation and
expenditure of public funds, including, but not limited to, publication of
resolutions, publication of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and
rules, provisions relating to low bids and requirement for bids.
(Prior Code, § 303.06)
§ 33.07 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT; A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he or she would
otherwise be entitled under this chapter or under the Worker’s Compensation
Law, M.S. §§ 176.001 et seq., as it may be amended from time to time, or under
any pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any benefits or
compensation under any act of Congress.
(Prior Code, § 303.07)
§ 33.08 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The emergency management organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
(Prior Code, § 303.08)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any regulation
adopted thereunder relating to acts, omissions or conduct other than official
acts of City employees or officers is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 303.99)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Fee schedule
Funds in City Treasury
   
34.15   Funds
   
34.16   Improvement bond funds
   
34.17   Accounting to funds
   
34.18   Disbursements
   
34.19   Claims approved
   
34.20   Signing orders
   
34.21   Investment of municipal funds
   
34.22   Public Works Reserve Fund
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   (1)   All fees and charges in effect as of the date of the adoption of
the City code for the City shall remain in effect unless otherwise modified by
the provisions of this section.
      (2)   All citations below are to various sections of the City code unless
otherwise indicated.
(Prior Code, § 101.01)
   (B)   The following are the fees and charges for the permits, licenses and
services listed below which are referenced to the section of the City code
which authorizes their establishment:
(Prior Code, § 101.02)
Land Use Fees Application Fee Escrow Fee
Land Use Fees                                    Application Fee Escrow Fee
Administrative Parcel Combination/Split          $250            $0
Administrative Permit                                           $50
Annexation Request                               $750            $2,500
Appeal of Zoning Administrator Decision          $250            $500
Site Plan/Concept Plan/Sketch Plan Building Plan $600            $5,000
Review
Conditional Use Permit                           $500            $1,000
Comprehensive Plan Amendment                     $750            $2,500
Environmental Assessment Worksheet               Actual Cost     $5,000
Environmental Impact Statement                   Actual Cost     $5,000
Final Plat                                       $750            $1,000
Interim Use Permit                               $500            $1,000
Lot Combination                                  $750            $750
Ordinance Amendment (map/rezoning/text)          $750            $750
Planned Unit Development                         $750            $2,500
Preliminary Plat                                 $750            $2,500
R.O.W./Easement/Vacation                         $500            $1,000
Variance                                         $300            $750
Wetland Mitigation Permit                        $300            $2,000
Zoning Request Letter                            $75             $0
 
 
Sewer Trunk Charge:               $2,700 per acre
residential/commercial/industrial Minimum $500
Water Trunk Charge:               $2,700 per acre
residential/commercial/industrial Minimum $500
Storm Sewer Utility/Trunk Charge: $1,000 per acre
residential/commercial/industrial Minimum $500
Record Drawing/GIS Fee (per lot)  $90 per lot
residential/commercial/industrial $250 per acre
 
Water and Sewer Fees Fee
Water and Sewer Fees                       Fee
Water Access Connection (WAC)               
   Single family unit                   1": $1,500
   Multi-family unit                    1": $1,200
   Commercial/Industrial                1" and larger see formula for change
   Formula based on 80% SFD
For service larger than one inch: ratio of
service size to be installed to the area
of a one-inch service multiplied by the
SFU WAC charge. Example: 3-inch water       
connection: Area of 3- inch (7.07 sq. in)/
area of 1-inch (0.78 sq. in)=Ratio (9.06)
Ratio (9.06) x SFU WAC $2,000) = C/I WAC
for 3 inch ($18,120)
Sanitary Sewer System Connection (SAC)      
   Single family unit                   $2,000
   Multi-family unit                    $1,400
   Commercial/Industrial                See formula for charge
   Formula based on 80% SFD
Ratio of SFU SAC charge to SFU WAC charge:
multiply by WAC charge as determined by
water system connection charge calculation
example for 3-inch water connection:        
SFU SAC charge ($4,000)/SFU WAC charge
($2,000) = Ratio (2)
WAC charge ($18,120 x Ratio (2) = C/I SAC
(3-inch water) ($36,240)
 
 
Water Meter            Fee
Water meter            Actual cost
Yoke (if required)     Actual cost
Initial setup          $125
Unscheduled meter read $50
 
Utility Fees Current Fee Proposed Fee
Utility Fees                                    Current Fee    Proposed Fee
Water Base Charge: minimum monthly charge       $24.95         $25.70
includes 1,000 gal.
Water Rate Charge: charge billed monthly for    $4.18          $4.31
water over 1,000 gal.
Water Rate Charge: outside water per 1,000 gal. $6.37          $6.56
Sewer Base Charge: minimum monthly charge       $28.78         $29.93
includes 1,000 gal.
Sewer Base Charge: charge billed monthly for    $9.20          $9.57
water over 1,000 gal.
Garbage Monthly Charge plus tax                                
   35-gallon cart                            $12.80 + $1.25 $13.44 + $1.31
   65- gallon cart                           $16.07 + $1.57 $16.87 + $1.65
   95-gallon cart                            $19.70 + $1.92 $20.69 + $2.02
 
Storm water fee minimum monthly $3.69
Storm water fee minimum monthly         $3.69
Duplicate utility billing               $2/billing
Late payment fee - monthly on current   10% of unpaid balance
unpaid utility charges
Certification fee for unpaid utility    10.5% + county charge
charges
Violation of water use regulation       First offense: written warning
                                        Further offenses: $50 per occurrence
Turn on water fee - reinstating utility $75
services
Discharging storm water into sanitary   $100 plus treatment fee for amount of
sewer                                   discharge
                                        $25 per day
Rental charge for use of fire hydrant   Water: $10/1,000 gal.
                                        Deposit $100
 
 
Memorial Park Shelter Rental (includes tax)  
   M-F                                   $80
   Saturday or Sunday                    $135
   Damage Deposit                        $150
 
Building Permit Fees             
1997 Uniform Building Code Fees
Building Permit Fees             
1997 Uniform Building Code Fees
Total Valuation                 Fee
$1 to $500                      $23
                                $23.50 for the first $500 plus $3.05 for each
$501 to $2,000                  additional $100 or fraction thereof, to and
                                including $2,000
                                $69.25 for the first $2,000 plus $14 for each
$2,001 to $25,000               additional $1,000 or fraction thereof, to and
                                including $25,000
                                $391.25 for first $25,000 plus $10.10 for each
$25,001 to $50,000              additional $1,000 or fraction thereof, to and
                                including $50,000
                                $643.75 for first $50,000 plus $7 for each
$50,001 to $100,000             additional $1,000 or fraction thereof, to and
                                including $100,000
                                $993.75 for first $100,000 plus $5.60 for each
$100,001 to $500,000            additional $1,000 or fraction thereof to and
                                including $500,000
                                $3,233.75 for first $500,000 plus $4.75 for
$500,001 to $1,000,000          each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof to
                                and including $1,000,000
$1,000,001 and up               $5,608.75 for the first $1,000,000 plus $3.15
                                for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof
 
 
Paid with Building Permit Fee
Landscape/Erosion Escrow  $2,500
 
 
Other Inspections and Fees:
   1.   Inspections outside of normal business hours                          $50
   2.   Reinspection fees                                        $50
   3.   Additional plan review required by changes, additions or revisions to plans       $50
 
 
State Surcharge                                               
   a.   Based on valuation of project cost             0.0005 x valuation
   b.   Based on a flat fee building permit            $1.00
Building permit refund for cancelled permit                  Cost less 50%
Penalty for working without permit                           Double permit fee
Building permit renewals (work hasn’t commenced within 180 Half original cost
days)
                                                             $100 fee with
Demolition permit                                            escrow based on
                                                             valuation of
                                                             demolition
 
 
Building (residential only)                            Fee
Re-roof                                                $100
Re-side                                                $100
Window replacements - no constructional alterations    $100
Door/patio replacement - no constructional alterations $100
Deck                                                   Based on valuation
All the above include state surcharge fee
 
Mechanical/HVAC (residential only) Fee
Mechanical/HVAC (residential only) Fee
New home HVAC (all inclusive)      $126
Factory fireplace                  $61
Furnace replacement                $61
Air conditioner                    $61
Garage heater                      $61
Air exchanger                      $61
Miscellaneous                      $61
All the above include state surcharge fee
 
Plumbing Fee
Plumbing                                 Fee
New home plumbing system (all inclusive) $126
Bathroom finish                          $61
Lawn sprinkler                           $61
Water heater                             $61
Water softener                           $61
Minimum fee                              $61
All the above include state surcharge fee
 
 
Commercial and Multi Family Mechanical and Plumbing Permits
Base permit     Contract price x .020
Plan review     65% of base permit fee
State surcharge Contract price x .0005
Minimum fee     $50
 
Other Fee
Other                                 Fee
Moving permit (house)                 $250
                                      $100
Grading/fill permit                   Expenses exceeding the permit fee will be
                                      billed to the owner/contractor
Change of occupancy permit - Building $50/hour
Official and/or Building Inspector
Driveway permit                       $100
Fence permit                          $50
Sign permit (new and replacement)     $100
Temporary portable sign permit        $25 annually
 
Liquor Licenses Fee
Liquor Licenses                               Fee
Liquor sale licenses (July 1 through June 30)
investigation/background check fee, initial   $125
and annual renewal
Comprehensive/out-of-state liquor license     Actual, but not to exceed $10,000
investigation
On-sale intoxicating license                  $2,335 annually
On-sale wine license                          $585 annually
Special Sunday on-sale license                $200 annually
Off-sale intoxicating license                 $200 annually
On-sale brew pub license                      $100 annually
Off-sale brewer intoxicating license          $200 annually
Temporary on-sale brewer intoxicating license $50 per event
Temporary on-sale intoxicating license        $50 per event
Combination on-sale/off-sale intoxicating     $2,435 annually
license
On-sale culinary class limited license        $100 annually
Temporary off-sale wine license               $50 per event
Brewer taproom license                        $200 annually
Temporary small brewer or micro-distillery    $50 per event
on-sale
Micro-distillery cocktail room license        $400 annually
On-sale 3.2% malt liquor license              $100 annually
Off-sale 3.2% malt liquor license             $100 annually
Temporary off-sale malt liquor license        $50 per event
Penalty for late application                  $100
Certification from county on property taxes   $10
 
 
Tobacco License                                  Fee
Tobacco license (January 1 through December 31 - $150 initial application
includes background check)                       $100 annual renewal
 
 
Cannabis Retail Business Registration                           Fee
Cannabis microbusiness – initial registration and first renewa$0.00
Cannabis microbusiness – second and subsequent renewal        $1,000
Cannabis mezzobusiness – initial registration and first renewa$500
Cannabis mezzobusiness – second and subsequent renewal        $1,000
Cannabis retailer – initial registration and first renewal    $500
Cannabis retailer – second and subsequent renewal             $1,000
 
 
Temporary Cannabis Events       Fee
Temporary Cannabis Event Permit $50
 
 
Adult Entertainment                    Fee
Business license                       $1,500
Manager license                        $100
Preliminary background                 $200
Comprehensive background investigation $1,000
Out-of-state comprehensive background  $10,000
 
 
Dance Licenses                 Fee
Temporary public dance license $25 per event
Dance hall license             $500 annually
Cabaret license                $500 annually
 
 
Tattooing or body piercing services $500 annually
 
 
Gambling Permit                                          Fee
Background investigation (January 1 through December 31) $50 annually
Gambling special permit investigation                    $50 per event
 
 
Miscellaneous                        Fee
ATV permit (3-year permit)           $30
Golf cart permit (3-year permit)     $30
Peddler or transient merchant permit $125 annually
 
Accident/incident reports (Police Dept.)             $5 per report
Dangerous dog registration fee (M.S. § 347.51 subd. $250 annually
3)
                                                     1st impound: $50
Animal release fee                                   2nd impound: $100
                                                     Subsequent: $200
                                                     Plus all boarding costs
Photo copies - black/white                           $0.25 per page per side
Photo copies - color                                 $0.50 per page per side
Research time for public information                 Per M.S. § 13.03
Duplicate city license or permit                     $15
Election filing fee                                  $2
Special assessment and utility bill search fee per   $30
parcel
Small cell wireless permit                           $300
Return/insufficient funds check                      $30 or legal maximum +
                                                     bank fee
 
Equipment Fee
Equipment                     Fee
Skid steer                    $125/hr includes operator
Skid steer with grapple       $150/hr includes operator
Dump truck - 8-yard           $125/hr includes operator
Dump truck with plow and wing $200/hr includes operator
1-ton pick-up truck           $100/hr includes operator
1-ton pick-up truck with plow $125/hr includes operator
Dump trailer (7' x 14')       $90/hr
 
 
Consultant    Fee
Staff         Loaded cost
City Attorney Actual cost
City Engineer Actual cost
City Planner  Actual cost
 
(Ord. 2003-01, passed - -; Ord. 2008-01, passed - -; Ord. 2008-04, passed - -;
Ord. 2009-01, passed - -; Ord. 2010-10, passed - -; Ord. 2012-02, passed - -;
Ord. 2013-04, passed - -; Ord. 2014-06, passed - -; Ord. 2015-02, passed - -;
Ord. 2015-04, passed 11-23-2015; Ord. 2016-07, passed 12-12-2016; Ord. 2017-04,
passed 11-27-2017; Ord. 2018-07, passed 11-13-2018; Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-
2019; Ord. 2019-09, passed 11-25-2019; Ord. 2022-01, passed 1-24-2022; Ord.
2022-05, passed 12-12-2022; Ord. 2023-12, passed 12-11-2023; Ord. 2024-02,
passed 11-25-2024; Ord. 2024-04, passed 11-25-2024; Ord. 2024-06, passed 12-9-
2024)
FUNDS IN CITY TREASURY
§ 34.15 FUNDS.
   (A)   There shall be created and set apart the following funds and the
Clerk-Treasurer of the City shall keep an accurate account of all moneys
credited to each of the funds, as follows:
      (1)   General Fund;
      (2)   Special Revenue Fund;
      (3)   Enterprise Fund (water, sewer, storm, garbage);
      (4)   Project Fund (improvements); and
      (5)   Long-Term Debt Fund.
   (B)   The funds may be established by the City Council for the retirement of
bonds and special improvement bonds and sinking funds as the City Council may
determine by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 102.01)
§ 34.16 IMPROVEMENT BOND FUNDS.
   (A)   There is hereby established a separate and special fund of the City to
be designated as the “Improvement Bond Funds”, which fund shall be maintained
by the Clerk-Treasurer on the books of the City so long as any bonds payable
therefrom shall be outstanding. The bonds to be payable from the fund shall be
designated by resolutions of the City Council, but shall include only bonds
issued pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of M.S. Ch. 429, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of any bonds, the City Council shall undertake
and agree that upon completion of each improvement financed by the bonds and
after payment in full of the cost of the improvement, all moneys remaining in
the Improvement Fund and all subsequent collections of special assessments
levied in respect of the improvement shall be irrevocably appropriated to and
paid into the Improvement Bond Redemption Fund; and, the City Council shall
levy a tax for years and in the amounts required, together with anticipated
collections of special assessments in respect of the improvements financed by
each issue of the bonds, to produce sums not less than 5% in excess of each
principal and interest payment on the bonds, as the payments shall respectively
become due; provided that, if the assessments to be levied for improvements
financed by any issue, together with interest on the assessments at the rate
fixed by the City Council, plus any amount appropriated from the bond proceeds
for the making of initial interest payments shall be sufficient to produce sums
5% in excess of the principal and interest requirements, no tax levy shall be
required.
   (C)   The special assessments and taxes levied and appropriated to the fund
shall be irrevocable; provided that, in the event that the City Council shall
in any year appropriate moneys from other sources to the fund which are payable
in the succeeding year may be reduced by the amount of the appropriation, at
the time and in the manner provided by M.S. § 475.61, as it may be amended from
time to time.
   (D)   The moneys in the fund shall be used solely for the payment of the
principal and interest when due on the bonds designated by the resolutions, and
for the prepayment and redemption of the bonds when and if the same become
prepayable according to their terms; provided that, the moneys may be invested
as authorized by M.S. § 118A.04, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   The full faith and credit of the City shall be and is hereby
irrevocably pledged for the prompt and full payment of the principal and
interest on all bonds made payable from the Improvement Bond Redemption Fund.
If, at any time, the moneys in the fund shall be insufficient to pay all
principal and interest due, the City Council shall provide sufficient moneys
for the payment from any other funds of the City, and the funds may be
reimbursed from the proceeds of the special assessments and taxes appropriated
to the Improvement Bond Redemption Fund; and, the City shall have the power and
authority, and it shall be the duty of the City Council, to levy additional ad
valorem taxes upon all of the taxable property within its corporate limits to
the extent required to restore any deficiency in the fund for the payment of
the bonds and interest, which levy may be made without limitation as to rate or
amount.
(Prior Code, § 102.02)
§ 34.17 ACCOUNTING TO FUNDS.
   All moneys received for licenses and fines shall be paid into the City
General Fund. The money received for taxes shall be credited to the various
funds for which the taxes shall have been levied.
(Prior Code, § 102.03)
§ 34.18 DISBURSEMENTS.
   All expenses of the City of whatever character properly arising out of
municipal affairs and not otherwise provided for shall be paid from the General
Fund, including payment of all debts as they become due, as well as the
interest on the same. Nothing herein shall affect the operation of other funds
prescribed by ordinance or resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 102.04)
§ 34.19 CLAIMS APPROVED.
   No money demand against the City shall be paid until audited and allowed by
the City Council, and before so audited and allowed, no order shall be drawn
upon the Treasurer thereof. The demands shall be made out in items and be
signed by the claimant that the claim is just and correct, and that no part of
it has been paid. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall endorse thereon the word
“disallowed” if such be the fact, or “allowed in the sum of $________” if
approved in whole or in part, specifying the latter case, the items rejected.
The accounts shall be filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer and consecutively
numbered throughout the year. Each claim allowed shall also bear the number of
the order drawn for its payment.
(Prior Code, § 102.05)
§ 34.20 SIGNING ORDERS.
   All orders for the payments of money out of funds of the City shall be
signed by the Mayor of the City and countersigned by the City Clerk-Treasurer
unless otherwise specified by ordinance. The orders shall specify the purpose
for which they were drawn, the fund out of which they are payable, the name of
the person in whose favor they are drawn and may be made payable to the order
of the person or bearer.
(Prior Code, § 102.06)
§ 34.21 INVESTMENT OF MUNICIPAL FUNDS.
   Any municipal funds of the City, not needed for other purposes or restricted
for other purposes, may be invested in the manner and subject to the
restrictions of M.S. § 118A.04, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 102.07)
§ 34.22 PUBLIC WORKS RESERVE FUND.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 471.57, as it may be amended from time to time, there is
hereby established a fund to be known as the “Public Works Reserve Fund”, which
shall be used for capital improvements as required. In authorizing additions to
this fund from time to time, the City Council may stipulate that the additions
or portions thereof shall be used for specific projects or types of
improvement, at its discretion, and there shall be no diversion from the
designated purpose unless approved by the voters according to law.
(Prior Code, § 102.08)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   UTILITY FRANCHISES
      
54.   STORM WATER UTILITY
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Collection of garbage and rubbish
   
50.03   Container required; placement
   
50.04   Meddling with trash receptacles prohibited
   
50.05   Containers to be kept sanitary and secure
   
50.06   Unauthorized private collections prohibited
   
50.07   Sanitation service; City options
   
50.08   Rates and charges; collection and late payment
   
50.09   Removal of building materials
   
50.10   Prohibited acts
   
50.11   Non-residential customers; container types; collection schedules
   
50.12   Manner of collection and transportation
   
50.13   Licensing for collection
   
50.14   Collection of leaves, trees or tree limbs
   
50.15   Burning of garbage and rubbish
   
50.16   Civil enforcement
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Organic refuse resulting from the preparation of food, and decayed
and spoiled food from any source.
   RUBBISH. All inorganic refuse matter such as tin cans, glass, paper, rags,
ashes, old clothing, wood and the like. RUBBISH excludes, earth, sand, brick
and stone created or generated as a result of construction activities.
(Prior Code, § 500.01)
§ 50.02 COLLECTION OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH.
   (A)   The cost of collecting and disposing of garbage or rubbish shall be
borne by the homeowner/ resident. Surcharges levied by other government bodies
that are directly related to garbage disposal or recycling shall also be billed
to the individual homeowner/resident. These costs shall be billed monthly to
each homeowner/resident. In the event of non-payment by a homeowner/resident,
following the third billing, these costs shall be certified by the City Clerk-
Treasurer to the County Auditor, and shall become part of the real estate tax
of the owner of the property.
   (B)   No person not duly licensed and bonded by the City Council to do so
shall haul garbage or other refuse for hire upon the streets of the City.
   (C)   All garbage or other refuse shall be transported on the streets or
alleys in the City only in vehicles with leak-proof bodies of easily cleanable
construction and completely covered with metal or heavy canvas. Vehicles shall
be so operated that contents do not spill or drip upon streets or alleys or
otherwise create a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 500.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 CONTAINER REQUIRED; PLACEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person whose garbage and refuse is
collected by the City’s sanitation collection service to utilize a container or
containers for garbage and refuse, sufficient in size and number to accommodate
and securely keep all garbage and refuse that may accumulate between
collections. Garbage containers shall be water-tight and constructed of a solid
and durable grade of metal, plastic or paper material.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of every person whose garbage and refuse is
collected by the City’s sanitation collection service to place his or her
garbage containers directly behind the curbline of the street abutting his or
her property or, in the absence of a curb, directly behind the ditch line
abutting his or her property. In no event shall containers be placed in the
street or on the sidewalk or in any manner placed where the containers will
interfere with vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the subscriber to place the
containers no earlier than 6:00 p.m. of the afternoon preceding the collection
day and shall remove the container from the street or sidewalk by no later than
6:00 a.m. on the day following collection.
(Prior Code, § 500.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 MEDDLING WITH TRASH RECEPTACLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to meddle with garbage cans, trash or rubbish
receptacles or in any way pilfer, search or scatter contents of garbage cans or
rubbish receptacles in or upon any street or alley within the City limits.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to persons authorized by the City or
persons authorized by state or federal law to search or otherwise meddle with
trash receptacles.
(Prior Code, § 500.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 CONTAINERS TO BE KEPT SANITARY AND SECURE.
   All containers shall be kept clean and free from accumulation of any
substance remaining attached to the inside of the container which would attract
or breed flies, mosquitoes or other insects. The area surrounding garbage
containers shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition. The contents
of all receptacles shall be protected so that the wind cannot scatter the
contents over the streets, alleys or other property within the City. All
containers shall be securely closed in a manner as to prevent the scattering of
the contents and to make them inaccessible to insects, rodents and other
animals.
(Prior Code, § 500.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 UNAUTHORIZED PRIVATE COLLECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport garbage or refuse for
hire which has been collected from any premises within the City over any public
street within the City.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any person who at the time of the
activity is operating under a valid contract or franchise granted by the City
which authorizes that person to use the public streets to conduct that
activity.
(Prior Code, § 500.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.07 SANITATION SERVICE; CITY OPTIONS.
   The City Council shall provide for sanitation collection services within the
City by use of City employees and vehicles, or it may grant licenses under the
terms and conditions of §
50.13 of this chapter, or it may contract with one or more contractors for the
provision of these services under the terms and conditions negotiated with the
contractors, except that the provisions for insurance under §
50.13(E) of this chapter shall always apply.
(Prior Code, § 500.07)
§ 50.08 RATES AND CHARGES; COLLECTION AND LATE PAYMENT.
   If the City collects charges for the collection, removal and disposal of
garbage and trash within the City, the following provisions apply.
   (A)   Generally. The monthly charge for the collection, removal and disposal
of garbage and trash from residences and businesses within the corporate limits
of the City shall be as established by resolution of the City Council, as
adopted from time to time.
   (B)   Collection of charges. The charges fixed herein for the collection,
removal and disposal of all garbage and trash shall be entered in their
respective amounts on the utility bill. The City may discontinue all utility
services, including water, sewer and garbage and trash services, for failing to
pay any assessed charges and until the charges have been paid in full under
conditions and procedures detailed in division (C) below.
   (C)   Disconnection for late payment.
      (1)   It is the policy of the City to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of non-payment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The City’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill;
         (b)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
non-payment; and
         (c)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the City official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the City to discontinue utility
service to a customer for non-payment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge as established by §
34.01 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 500.08) (Ord. 2003-02, passed - -)
§ 50.09 REMOVAL OF BUILDING MATERIALS.
   Waste from building operations, rock waste, building materials or other
refuse resulting from building or remodeling operations or resulting from a
general cleanup of vacant or improved property shall be removed by the building
contractor, owner or occupant of the building at his or her own expense. It
shall be unlawful for any person to place those materials in any dumpster or
other trash receptacle for disposal by the City or any agent or contractor of
the City.
(Prior Code, § 500.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.10 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sweep, throw or deposit any
garbage, rubbish, trash, debris, stagnant water or dead animal into, upon or
along any public property or private property of another, except as may be
specifically provided by this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or otherwise in control of
any premises within the City to permit any of the conditions described in
division (A) above to exist upon property owned or controlled by him or her
after having actual or constructive notice thereof.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place in any container any
material other than as specifically provided in this chapter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or maintain garbage or
trash, except as provided for by this chapter.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any burning match,
charcoal, ember or other material in any container used for the disposal of
garbage.
(Prior Code, § 500.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.11 NON-RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMERS; CONTAINER TYPES; COLLECTION SCHEDULES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner or person otherwise in charge of
multi-family, institutional or industrial premises within the City to cause all
garbage and trash accumulated on the premises to be placed in disposable
containers, or commercial-type containers. Commercial-type containers may be
used and may be placed at a location on the premises as arranged between the
customer and the collector, but subject to review by the City at any time.
   (B)   Disposable containers shall be placed at a location on the premises
which is readily accessible to the collector.
   (C)   The amount and character of garbage shall be considered in
establishing size of commercial containers and frequency of pickup. The City
shall have final authority to establish the size and frequency based on the
history of amount and type of garbage generated by the customer. The collection
and removal of garbage and trash from premises used for commercial,
institutional or industrial purposes shall be made as often as necessary in
order to maintain the premises free of accumulations. Garbage, except dry trash
in contractor-supplied containers, shall be collected not less than one time
each week, except for roll-off containers which shall not be subject to this
provision so long as they are used solely for brush and dry trash.
(Prior Code, § 500.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.12 MANNER OF COLLECTION AND TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   The collection, removal and disposal of all garbage, trash and brush
shall be carried on in a systematic, efficient manner to keep the City in a
clean and sanitary condition.
   (B)   All vehicles used for the collection and transportation of garbage and
trash shall be equipped with suitable covers which shall be used to prevent
blowing or scattering of refuse while garbage and trash are being transported
for disposal.
(Prior Code, § 500.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.13 LICENSING FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   Purpose. In order to provide for a continuous system of refuse
collection and disposal in a manner which meets the needs and conveniences of
the residents of the City and in order to protect the area from the problems of
uncoordinated, unsanitary and improper solid waste disposal, the City Council
determines that it is in the best interests of the residents of the City to
require licenses of persons collecting or hauling garbage and rubbish for hire,
reserving to the City the right and authority to contract with one or more
operators to provide these services.
   (B)   Licensing. No person may collect or haul garbage or rubbish within the
City without first obtaining a written license from the City Council. An
application for a license shall be submitted in writing to the City Clerk-
Treasurer, and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Description of the equipment which will be used within the City by
the applicant;
      (3)   A schedule of the rate that will be charged by the applicant for
the various categories of customers within the City; and
      (4)   Evidence of compliance with the other applicable sections of this
chapter.
   (C)   Franchise. The City Council may exercise its reserved right to
contract with one or more operators for the collection of garbage and rubbish
within the City.
   (D)   Suspension of license or contract. A contract or license issued under
the provisions of this section may be revoked or suspended for a violation of
this chapter or other applicable regulations of law upon a showing that the
contractor or licensee has failed to comply with that regulation.
   (E)   Financial responsibility. The licensee or contractor shall show
financial responsibility or a certificate of insurance coverage prior to
obtaining the license or franchise whereby each vehicle to be used by the
licensee or contractor shall be covered against loss or injury in the following
amounts: $300,000 when the claim is one for death by wrongful act or omission
and $300,000 to any claimant in any other case; $1,000,000 for any number of
claims arising out of a single occurrence. The licensee or contractor shall
hold the City harmless and agrees to defend and indemnify the City, and the
City’s employees and agents, for any claims, damages, losses and expenses
related to the work under the license or contract. The City shall be named as
an additional insured under that insurance for the services provided under the
license or contract. The licensee’s or contractor’s insurance shall be the
primary insurance for the City and the licensee or contractor shall provide a
certificate of insurance on the City’s approved form which verifies the
existence of the insurance required, including provisions to hold the City
harmless and defend and indemnify the City. The licensee or contractor shall
also provide evidence of worker’s compensation insurance for employees. These
insurance policies shall be for the full term of the license or franchise and
shall provide for the giving of ten days’ prior notice to the City of the
termination or cancellation of these policies. In case any policies are
terminated or cancelled, the license or contract shall be automatically revoked
upon receipt by the City Clerk-Treasurer of the termination or cancellation.
   (F)   Design of equipment. All trucks or motor vehicles used by the licensee
or contractor shall be water-tight so as not to allow the leakage of liquids or
refuse while hauling the same and shall be covered with a covering to prevent
the scattering of its contents upon the public streets or private properties in
the City.
   (G)   Inspections. All vehicles used for garbage or rubbish shall be made
available for inspection within the City at the times and places as the City
Council may designate.
   (H)   Bond. The contractor or licensee may be required to furnish a surety
bond in an amount as the City Council deems necessary running to and approved
by the City Council, guaranteeing the franchisee’s or licensee’s faithful and
continuous performance of the terms of the franchise, license or contract and
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 500.13)
§ 50.14 COLLECTION OF LEAVES, TREES OR TREE LIMBS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the collection for
hire by other persons of leaves, trees or tree limbs.
(Prior Code, § 500.14)
§ 50.15 BURNING OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH.
   (A)   Garbage burning prohibited. No person shall burn any garbage in the
City.
   (B)   Trash burning regulated. No person shall burn any trash, lumber,
straw, papers or other combustible material, except grass lawn sweepings and
leaves, in any street, alley, yard or upon any lot, except in the manner
hereinafter provided in this chapter. The burning in or upon any street,
sidewalk or alley of the City is expressly prohibited.
   (C)   Trash burning regulation. Any of the refuse or material described in
division (B) above may be burned in the City in a refuse burner constructed in
a substantial manner of iron, steel, brick, concrete or stone, which shall be a
closed receptacle with a tight door at the bottom, if any opening there exists,
and the top opening shall be protected in a secure manner by a wire screen of
not less than nine-gauge wire with a mesh not to exceed one-half inch. If the
refuse burner is constructed of iron or steel, it shall not be thinner than 14
B.W. gauge; provided, however, that, the refuse or material shall not be burned
within 20 feet of any building, structure or flammable material, nor within ten
feet of any fence, partition or neighboring property line.
   (D)   Control of fires. No fire shall be set on any unusually windy day. No
person shall set fire to or burn any weeds, grass, leaves, rubbish or other
substance within the meaning of division (B) above without first providing
adequate means to control the fire at all times.
   (E)   Evidence. The setting of such a fire on any unusually windy day or the
calling or appearance of firefighting equipment at such a fire shall constitute
prima facie evidence that the person so setting the fire did not provide
adequate means to control the fire.
(Prior Code, § 500.15) (Ord. 4.02, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.16 CIVIL ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   In addition to any criminal penalty which may apply for a violation of
this chapter, the City Council may issue civil orders to any person, including
occupants or property owners, to clean up their property or abate any violation
of this chapter.
   (B)   The City shall complete any necessary clean up work, after notice to
the occupant or property owner and failure to comply with the City’s order. The
City may recover 110% of the actual costs of clean-up work performed, plus
attorney fees by special levy or civil action.
(Prior Code, § 500.16) (Ord. 4.01, passed - -1985)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Control of sewers; administration of chapter
   
51.003   Building sewers; general requirements
   
51.004   Tampering with wastewater facilities
   
51.005   Cost of repairing or restoring sewers
   
51.006   Deposits of unsanitary matter prohibited
   
51.007   Discharge of wastewater or other polluted waters
   
51.008   Restrictions on wastewater disposal facilities
   
51.009   Installation of service connection to public sewer
   
51.010   Failure to connect to a public sewer
   
51.011   Incorporation of Northfield City ordinances
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
51.025   Public sewer not available
   
51.026   Permits
   
51.027   Type, capacities, location and layout
   
51.028   Direct connection required
   
51.029   Operation and maintenance by owner
   
51.030   Application of subchapter
Building Sewers and Connections
   
51.045   Restrictions on new connections
   
51.046   Building sewer permits
   
51.047   Costs and expenses
   
51.048   Separate building sewers required
   
51.049   Old building sewers; restrictions on use
   
51.050   Conformance to State Building and Plumbing Code requirements
   
51.051   Elevation below basement floor
   
51.052   Surface runoff or ground water connections prohibited
   
51.053   Excavations
   
51.054   Licenses
Use of Public Services
   
51.065   Discharges of unpolluted water
   
51.066   Discharges of waters or wastes
   
51.067   Limited discharges
   
51.068   Discharges hazardous to life or constitute public nuisances
   
51.069   Increasing use of process water
   
51.070   Pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities
   
51.071   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
51.072   Industrial wastes; installations
   
51.073   Industrial wastes; requirements
   
51.074   Measurements, tests and analyses of waters and wastes
   
51.075   Protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials
   
51.076   Permitting substance or matter to flow or pass into public sewers
   
51.077   Repairing service connection
   
51.078   Catch basin, waste traps
   
51.079   Special agreement and arrangement
User Rate Schedule for Charges
   
51.090   Charges generally
   
51.091   Purpose
   
51.092   Definitions
   
51.093   Establishment of a sewer service charge system
   
51.094   Determination of sewer service charges
   
51.095   Sewer Service Fund
   
51.096   Administration
   
51.097   Determination of sewer service charges
   
51.098   Disconnection for late payment
Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
51.110   Authorized employees permitted to enter all properties
   
51.111   Authorized employees obtaining information for industrial processes
   
51.112   Authorized employees to observe safety rules
   
51.113   Authorized employees permitted to enter all property with easements
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also referred to as the Clean
Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., as amended.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing Materials.
   AUTHORITY. The City or its representative thereof.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD5). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning three
feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER.
      (1)   The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or other
place of disposal.
      (2)   Also referred to as a HOUSE CONNECTION or SERVICE CONNECTION.
   CITY.
      (1)   The area within the corporate boundaries of the City of Dundas, as
presently established or as amended by ordinance or other legal actions at a
future time.
      (2)   The term CITY, when used herein may also be used to refer to the
City Council and its authorized representative.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure specially constructed for the purpose of
measuring flow and sampling of wastes.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of food.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Gaseous, liquid and solid wastes resulting from industrial
or manufacturing processes, trade or business, or from the development,
recovery and processing of natural resources, as distinct from residential or
domestic strength wastes.
   INDUSTRY. Any non-governmental or non-residential user of a publicly owned
treatment works which is identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, latest edition, which is categorized in Divisions A, B, D, E and I.
   INFILTRATION. Water entering the sewage system (including building drains
and pipes) from the ground through means as defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections and manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW (I/I). The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow.
   INFLOW. Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
building drains) from sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard and area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, catch basins,
surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the City’s wastewater disposal
system processes or operations which causes or significantly contributes to a
violation of any requirement of the City’s NPDES or SDS permit. The term
includes sewage sludge use or disposal by the City in accordance with published
regulations providing guidelines under § 405 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345) or
any regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C.
§§ 6901 et seq.), the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.), the Toxic
Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.) or more stringent state
criteria applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by the City.
   JOINT WASTEWATER TREATMENT AGREEMENT. The agreement entered into between the
City of Dundas and the City of Northfield on 5-7-2001, and as amended or
revised, which allows Dundas effluent to be treated as part of the Northfield
wastewater treatment system and facility.
   MAY. The term is permissive.
   MPCA. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations
establishing pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants in publicly-
owned wastewater treatment facilities which are determined to be not
susceptible to treatment by those treatment facilities or would interfere with
the operation of those treatment facilities, pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act
(33 U.S.C. § 1317(b)).
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued by the MPCA, setting limits on pollutants that a permittee may legally
discharge into navigable waters of the United States pursuant to §§ 402 and 405
of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342 and 33 U.S.C. § 1345).
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers,
which overflow into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface
water or ground water.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or during which the only pollutant
added is heat.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE (NDSW). Wastewater that is primarily
introduced by residential users with a BOD5 concentration not greater than 287
mg/l and a suspended solids (TSS) concentration not greater than 287 mg/l.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
terms of grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from industrial sources prior to
the introduction of the waste effluent into a publicly-owned treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
      (1)   COLLECTION SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges and connections.
      (2)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
      (3)   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned and maintained by a
public authority.
      (4)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned, maintained and controlled by a public
authority.
      (5)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters
which are not admitted intentionally.
      (6)   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer intended to carry
storm waters, surface runoff, ground water, subsurface water, street wash
water, drainage and unpolluted water from any source.
   SHALL. The term is mandatory.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (SDS) PERMIT. Any permit (including any terms,
conditions and requirements thereof) issued by the MPCA pursuant to M.S. §
115.07, as it may be amended from time to time, for a disposal system as
defined by M.S. § 115.01(5), as it may be amended from time to time.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition, and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse affects as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act
(33 U.S.C. § 1317(a)).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards, and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities.
   USER. Any person who discharges or causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the City’s wastewater disposal system.
   UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT. The person appointed by the City Council to
supervise the sewer and water systems of the City.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community and referred to as sewage. From
the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with any ground water, surface water and storm water that
may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment or processes owned or used by the
City of Dundas or the City of Northfield for the purpose of the transmission,
storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic
sewage or industrial wastewater, or structures necessary to recycle or reuse
water including interceptor sewers, outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping,
power and other equipment and their appurtenances; extensions, improvements,
remodeling, additions and alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a
reliable recycled water supply such as standby treatment units and clear well
facilities; and any works including land which is an integral part of the
treatment process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from
that treatment.
   WPCF. The Water Pollution Control Federation.
(Prior Code, § 501.001)
§ 51.002 CONTROL OF SEWERS; ADMINISTRATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The Utilities Superintendent, or other official designated by the City
Council, shall have control and general supervision of all public sewers and
service connections in the City, and shall be responsible for administering the
provisions of this chapter to the end that a proper and efficient public sewer
is maintained. The Utilities Superintendent may delegate responsibilities to
designated representatives of the City.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall further ensure that all terms, regulations,
rights and obligations of Northfield City ordinances regulating the discharge
of sewage, as defined in that wastewater treatment agreement between Dundas and
the City of Northfield dated 5-7-2001, and as amended, and the terms and
provisions of the agreement, are fully enforced and complied with.
(Prior Code, § 501.002)
§ 51.003 BUILDING SEWERS; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Building sewer construction shall meet the pertinent requirements of the
Minnesota State Building Code, as they may be amended from time to time. The
applicant shall notify the City Clerk-Treasurer when the building sewer and
connection is ready for inspection. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the Building Official or the Building Official’s representative,
if the City has adopted the State Building Code. If the City has not adopted
the State Building Code, the Utilities Superintendent shall perform the
inspection. If the City does not have a Utilities Superintendent, an installer
licensed under §
51.054 of this chapter shall certify that the building sewer and connection
comply with the State Building Code. No backfill shall be placed until the work
has been inspected and approved, or until the certification has been received.
(Prior Code, § 501.003) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.004 TAMPERING WITH WASTEWATER FACILITIES.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 501.004) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.005 COST OF REPAIRING OR RESTORING SEWERS.
   In addition to any penalties that may be imposed for violation of any
provision of this chapter, the City may assess against any person the cost of
repairing or restoring sewers or associated facilities damaged as a result of
the discharge of prohibited wastes by that person, and may collect the
assessment as an additional charge for the use of the public sewer system or in
any other manner deemed appropriate by the City.
(Prior Code, § 501.005)
§ 51.006 DEPOSITS OF UNSANITARY MATTER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
City, or in any area under the City’s jurisdiction, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or objectionable waste.
(Prior Code, § 501.015) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.007 DISCHARGE OF WASTEWATER OR OTHER POLLUTED WATERS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet any wastewater or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter and the City’s NPDES/SDS
permit.
(Prior Code, § 501.016) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.008 RESTRICTIONS ON WASTEWATER DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful to
construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
(Prior Code, § 501.017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.009 INSTALLATION OF SERVICE CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes from which wastewater is
discharged, and which is situated within the City and adjacent to any street,
alley or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in the future be
located, a public sanitary sewer of the City shall be required at the owner’s
expense to install a suitable service connection to the public sewer in
accordance with provisions of this code; provided, the public sewer is within
660 feet of the structure generating the wastewater. All future buildings
constructed on property adjacent to the public sewer shall be required to
immediately connect to the public sewer.
   (B)   If sewer connections are not made pursuant to this section, an
official ten-day notice shall be served instructing the affected property owner
to make the connection.
(Prior Code, § 501.018) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.010 FAILURE TO CONNECT TO A PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   In the event an owner shall fail to connect to a public sewer in
compliance with a notice given under §
51.009 of this chapter, the City shall undertake to have the connection made
and shall assess the cost thereof against the benefitted property. The
assessment, when levied, shall bear interest at the rate determined by the City
Council and shall be certified to the County Auditor and shall be collected and
remitted to the City in the same manner as assessments for local improvements.
   (B)   The rights of the City shall be in addition to any remedial or
enforcement provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 501.019) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.011 INCORPORATION OF NORTHFIELD CITY ORDINANCES.
   All terms, regulations, rights and obligations of Northfield ordinances
regulating the discharge of sewage (as defined in that wastewater treatment
agreement between the Cities of Dundas and Northfield, dated 5-7-2001) and the
wastewater treatment agreement are incorporated herein, to be a part of this
chapter as if fully stated herein, including without limitation, the right of
the City of Northfield to inspect, monitor, impose and collect rates, or
require pretreatment within the Dundas collection system service area.
(Prior Code, § 501.020)
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 51.025 PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE.
   Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions of §
51.009 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
wastewater disposal system complying with the provisions of this subchapter and
Minn. Rules Ch. 7080, Individual Sewage Treatment Systems Program, as they may
be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 501.035) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.026 PERMITS.
   (A)   Required. Prior to commencement of construction of a private
wastewater disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit
signed by the City. The application for the permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the City, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary to the City.
   (B)   Inspections.
      (1)   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the City
or its authorized representative. The City or its representative shall be
allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction, and in any event, the
applicant for the permit shall notify the City when work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered.
      (2)   The inspection shall be made within 24 hours of the receipt of
notice.
(Prior Code, § 501.036) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.027 TYPE, CAPACITIES, LOCATION AND LAYOUT.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater disposal
system shall comply with all requirements of Minn. Rules Ch. 7080, Individual
Sewage Treatment Systems Program, as they may be amended from time to time. No
septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 501.037) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.028 DIRECT CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   At the time as a public sewer becomes available to a property serviced
by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to
the public sewer within 30 days in compliance with this chapter, and within 30
days any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal
systems shall be cleaned of sludge.
   (B)   The bottom shall be broken to permit drainage and the tank or pit
filled with suitable material.
(Prior Code, § 501.038) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.029 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE BY OWNER.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the City.
(Prior Code, § 501.039)
§ 51.030 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the MPCA or the state’s
Department of Health.
(Prior Code, § 501.040)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.045 RESTRICTIONS ON NEW CONNECTIONS.
   Any new connections to the sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited unless
sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities, including, but
not limited to, capacity for flow, BOD5 and suspended solids, as determined by
the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 501.055) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.046 BUILDING SEWER PERMITS.
   (A)   Required. No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections
with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance
thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the City.
   (B)   Applications. Applications for permits shall be made by the owner or
authorized agent and the party employed to do the work, and shall state the
location, name of owner, street number of the building to be connected and how
occupied. No person shall extend any private building drain beyond the limits
of the building or property for which the service connection permit has been
given.
   (C)   Classes. There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: one for
residential and commercial service; and one for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or any other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the City. The industry, as a condition of permit
authorization, must provide information describing its wastewater constituents,
characteristics and type of activity.
   (D)   Inspection and connection. The applicant for the building sewer permit
shall notify the City when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection and inspection shall be made
under the supervision of the Utilities Superintendent or authorized
representative thereof.
(Prior Code, § 501.056) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.047 COSTS AND EXPENSES.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the City
from any loss or damage that may be directly or indirectly occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 501.057) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.048 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWERS REQUIRED.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway. The building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered one building sewer. The City does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any
connection.
(Prior Code, § 501.058) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.049 OLD BUILDING SEWERS; RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Utilities Superintendent or his
or her representative, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 501.059)
§ 51.050 CONFORMANCE TO STATE BUILDING AND PLUMBING CODE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The size, slopes, alignment, materials of construction of building
sewers and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling of the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the state’s Building and Plumbing Codes or other applicable rules and
regulations of the City.
   (B)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the state’s Building and Plumbing Codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the City. All connections shall be made
gas-tight and water-tight, and verified by proper testing to prevent the
inclusion of infiltration/inflow. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures
and materials must be approved by the City prior to installation.
(Prior Code, § 501.060) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.051 ELEVATION BELOW BASEMENT FLOOR.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 501.061) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.052 SURFACE RUNOFF OR GROUND WATER CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, sump pumps, foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a
building sewer or indirectly to the wastewater disposal system.
(Prior Code, § 501.062) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.053 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the City.
(Prior Code, § 501.063) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.054 LICENSES.
   (A)   Required. No person shall make a service connection with any public
sewer unless regularly licensed under this chapter to perform the work, and no
permit shall be granted to any person except a regularly licensed person.
   (B)   Application. Any person desiring a license to make a service
connection with public sewers shall apply in writing to the City Council with
satisfactory evidence that the applicant or employer is trained or skilled in
the business and qualified to receive a license. All applications shall be
referred to the Utilities Superintendent for recommendations to the Council. If
approved by the Council, the license shall be issued by the City Clerk-
Treasurer upon the filing of a bond as hereinafter provided.
   (C)   Issuance. No license shall be issued to any person until a policy of
insurance to the City, approved by the Council, is filed with the City Clerk-
Treasurer conditioned that the licensee will indemnify and save harmless the
City from all suits, accidents and damage that may arise by reason of any
opening in any street, alley or public ground made by the licensee or by those
in the licensee’s employment for any purpose whatever, and that the licensee
will replace and restore the street and alley over that opening to the
condition existing prior to installation, adequately guard with barricades and
lights, and will keep and maintain the same to the satisfaction of the
Utilities Superintendent, and shall conform in all respects to any rules and
regulations of the Council relative thereto, and pay all fines that may be
imposed on the licensee by law.
   (D)   Fee. The license fee for making service connections shall be as
established by §
34.01 of this code of ordinances. All licenses shall expire on December 31 of
the license year unless the license is suspended or revoked by the Council for
cause.
   (E)   Suspension or revocation. The Council may suspend or revoke any
license issued under this subchapter for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Giving false information in connection with the application for a
license;
      (2)   Incompetence of the licensee; and/or
      (3)   Willful violation of any provisions of this chapter or any rule or
regulation pertaining to the making of service connections.
(Prior Code, § 501.064) Penalty, see §
51.999
USE OF PUBLIC SERVICES
§ 51.065 DISCHARGES OF UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or caused to be discharged any water such as
storm water, ground water, roof runoff, surface drainage or non-contact cooling
water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
those sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the City and other regulatory agencies. Industrial cooling
water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged to a storm sewer or
natural outlet on approval of the City and upon approval and the issuance of a
discharge permit by the MPCA.
(Prior Code, § 501.080) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.066 DISCHARGES OF WATERS OR WASTES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any liquids, solids or gases which, by reason of their nature or
quantity, are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater disposal system or to the operation of the system. Prohibited
materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha,
benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides,
chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides;
   (B)   Solid or viscous substances which will cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as, but not limited to, grease, garbage with particles greater
than one-half inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure,
bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes,
cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings,
grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastic,
asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubricating
oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing wastes;
   (C)   Any wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 or greater than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater disposal system;
   (D)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater disposal
system. A toxic pollutant shall include, but not be limited to, any pollutant
identified pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317(a)); and/or
   (E)   Any sewage, polluted water or other effluent which is prohibited by
state law or City of Northfield ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 501.081) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.067 LIMITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The following described substances, materials, water or wastes shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either sewers, the wastewater treatment works, treatment
process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
and soil, vegetation and ground water, or will not otherwise endanger lives,
limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. The Utilities Superintendent
may set limitations lower than limitations established in the regulations below
if, in his or her opinion, the more severe limitations are necessary to meet
the above objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of
wastes, the Utilities Superintendent will give consideration to factors as the
quantity of subject waste in reaction to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, the City’s NPDES/SDS permit, capacity of the sewage treatment plant,
degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other
pertinent factors.
   (B)   The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be
violated without approval of the Utilities Superintendent are as follows:
      (1)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (65.6°C), or
causing, individually or in combination with other wastewater, the influent at
the wastewater treatment plant to have a temperature exceeding 104°F (40°C), or
having heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the wastewater
treatment works resulting in interference therein;
      (2)   Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65.6°C); and any wastewater containing oil and grease concentrations of mineral
origin of greater than 100 mg/l, whether emulsified or not;
      (3)   Any quantities of flow, concentrations or both which constitute a
“slug”, as defined in §
51.092 of this chapter;
      (4)   Any garbage not properly shredded, as defined in §
51.001 of this chapter. Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers
from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering
establishments or similar places where garbage originates from the preparation
of food on the premises or when served by caterers;
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life, or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair;
      (6)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions;
      (7)   Non-contact cooling water or unpolluted storm, drainage or ground
water;
      (8)   Wastewater containing inert suspended solids such as, but not
limited to, fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues, or of dissolved
solids such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate, in
quantities that would cause disruption with the wastewater disposal system;
      (9)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of half-life or concentration as
may exceed limits established by the Utilities Superintendent in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (10)   Any waters or wastes containing the following substances to the
degree that any material received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater
treatment works is detrimental to treatment process, adversely impacts land
application, adversely effects receiving waters, or is in violation of
standards pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317(b)): arsenic;
cadmium; copper; cyanide; lead; mercury; nickel; silver; total chromium; zinc;
and phenolic compounds, which cannot be removed by the City’s wastewater
treatment system;
      (11)   Any wastewater which creates conditions at or near the wastewater
disposal system which violates any statute, rule, regulation or ordinance of
any regulatory agency or state or federal regulatory body;
      (12)   Any waters or wastes containing BOD5 or suspended solids of
character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle
the materials at the wastewater treatment works, except as may be permitted by
specific written agreement subject to the provisions of §
51.079 of this chapter; and/or
      (13)   Wastewater containing substances which cannot be treated to
produce effluent quality required by the permit or causes a violation of any
local, state or federal regulation.
(Prior Code, § 501.082)
§ 51.068 DISCHARGES HAZARDOUS TO LIFE OR CONSTITUTE PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which contain substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §
51.067 of this chapter or which, in the judgement of the Utilities
Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater treatment
facilities, processes or equipment, receiving waters or soil, vegetation and
ground water, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the City may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers, pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317(b)) and
all amendments thereof;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling, treating and
disposing of wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer service charges.
   (B)   If the City permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design, installation and maintenance of the facilities and equipment shall
be made at the owner’s expense and shall be subject to the review and approval
of the City pursuant to the requirements of the MPCA.
(Prior Code, § 501.083)
§ 51.069 INCREASING USE OF PROCESS WATER.
   No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any manner, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in §§
51.066 and
51.067 of this chapter, or contained in the national categorical pretreatment
standards or any state requirements.
(Prior Code, § 501.084) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.070 PRETREATMENT OR FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or required
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation at the expense of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 501.085)
§ 51.071 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Utilities Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as specified in
§
51.067(B)(2) of this chapter, any flammable wastes as specified in §
51.066(A) of this chapter, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that,
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of the type to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these
interceptors, the owner shall be responsible for the proper removal and
disposal of the captured materials by appropriate means, and shall maintain a
record of dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
Utilities Superintendent. Any removal and hauling of the collecting materials
not performed by the owner’s personnel must be performed by a currently
licensed waste disposal firm.
(Prior Code, § 501.086) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.072 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   Where required by the City, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure,
or control manhole, with necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of wastes.
   (B)   The structure shall be accessible and safely located, and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the City. The structure shall
be installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by the
owner to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Prior Code, § 501.087) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.073 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes may, at the discretion of the City, be required to provide
laboratory measurements, tests or analyses of waters or wastes to illustrate
compliance with this chapter and any special condition for discharge
established by the City or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the
discharge. The number, type and frequency of sampling and laboratory analyses
to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the City. The industry
must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge
to assure that compliance with federal, state and local standards are being
met. The owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analyses
to the City at times and in the manner as prescribed by the City. The owner
shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses and reporting required by
the City.
   (B)   At those times as deemed necessary, the City reserves the right to
take measurements and supplies for analysis by an independent laboratory.
(Prior Code, § 501.088) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.074 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES OF WATERS AND WASTES.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, duration and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Utilities
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 501.089) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.075 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE OF PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   (A)   Where required by the City, the owner of any property serviced by a
sanitary sewer shall provide protection from an accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Where
necessary, facilities to prevent accidental discharges of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the owner’s expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the Utilities Superintendent for review and approval prior to
construction of the facility. Review and approval of the plans and operating
procedures shall not relieve any user from the responsibility to modify the
user’s facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Users shall notify the Utilities Superintendent immediately upon
having a slug or accidental discharge of substances of wastewater in violation
of this chapter to enable countermeasures to be taken by the Utilities
Superintendent to minimize damage to the wastewater treatment works. The
notification will not relieve any user of any liability for any expense, loss
or damage to the wastewater treatment system or treatment process, or for any
fines imposed on the City on account thereof under any state and federal law.
Employers shall ensure that all employees who may cause or discover a discharge
are advised of the emergency notification procedure. A notice shall be
permanently posted in a prominent place advising employees of the emergency
notification procedure in the event of a slug or accidental discharge.
(Prior Code, § 501.090) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.076 PERMITTING SUBSTANCE OR MATTER TO FLOW OR PASS INTO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   No person having charge of any building or other premises which drains into
the public sewer shall permit any substance or matter which may form a deposit
or obstruction to flow or pass into the public sewer. Within 30 days after
receipt of written notice from the City, the owner shall install a suitable and
sufficient catch basin or waste trap or, if one already exists, shall clean
out, repair or alter the same and perform other work as the Utilities
Superintendent may deem necessary. Upon the owner’s refusal or neglect to
install a catch basin or waste trap or to clean out, repair or alter the same
after the period of 30 days, the Utilities Superintendent may cause the work to
be completed at the expense of the owner or representative thereof.
(Prior Code, § 501.091) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.077 REPAIRING SERVICE CONNECTION.
   Whenever any service connection becomes clogged, obstructed, broken or out
of order, or detrimental to the use of the public sewer, or unfit for the
purpose of drainage, the owner shall repair or cause the work to be done as the
Utilities Superintendent may direct. Each day after 30 days that a person
neglects or fails to so act shall constitute a separate violation of this
section, and the Utilities Superintendent may then cause the work to be done,
and recover from the owner or agent the expense thereof by an action in the
name of the City.
(Prior Code, § 501.092) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.078 CATCH BASIN, WASTE TRAPS.
   The owner or operator of any motor vehicle washing or servicing facility
shall provide and maintain in serviceable condition at all times a catch basin
or waste trap in the building drain system to prevent grease, oil, dirt or any
mineral deposit from entering the public sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 501.093) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.079 SPECIAL AGREEMENT AND ARRANGEMENT.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the City and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the City for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern; provided that, national categorical pretreatment standards
and the City’s NPDES/SDS permit limitations are not violated.
(Prior Code, § 501.094)
USER RATE SCHEDULE FOR CHARGES
§ 51.090 CHARGES GENERALLY.
   Each user of sewer service shall pay the charges applicable to the type of
service and in accordance with the provisions set forth in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 501.110)
§ 51.091 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the subchapter is to provide for sewer service charges to
recover costs associated with operation, maintenance and replacement to ensure
effective functioning of the City’s wastewater treatment system and local
capital costs incurred in the construction of the City’s wastewater treatment
system.
(Prior Code, § 501.111)
§ 51.092 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATION. Those fixed costs attributable to administration of the
wastewater treatment works, such as billing and associated bookkeeping and
accounting costs.
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the City of Dundas, as
presently established or as amended by ordinance or other legal actions at a
future time. When used herein, the term CITY may also refer to the City Council
or its authorized representative.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. A charge levied on users of wastewater treatment
facilities for the cost of repaying money bonded to construct the facilities.
   INCOMPATIBLE WASTE. Waste that either singly or by interaction with other
wastes interferes with any waste treatment process, constitutes a hazard to
humans or animals, creates a public nuisance or creates any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL USERS or INDUSTRIES.
      (1)   (a)   Entitles that discharge into a publicly owned wastewater
treatment works liquid wastes resulting from the processes employed in
industrial or manufacturing processes, or from the development of any natural
resources. These are identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, latest edition, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and
supplemental under one of the following divisions:
            1.   Division A, Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
            2.   Division B, Mining;
            3.   Division D, Manufacturing;
            4.   Division E, Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Sewers; and
            5.   Division I, Services.
         (b)   For the purpose of this definition, domestic waste shall be
considered to have the following characteristics:
            1.   BOD5: less than 287 mg/l;
            2.   Suspended solids: less than 287 mg/l.
      (2)   Any non-governmental user of a publicly owned treatment works which
discharges wastewater to the treatment works which contains toxic pollutants or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by
interaction with other wastes to contaminate the sludge of any municipal
systems, or to injure or to interfere with any sewage treatment process, or
which constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates a public nuisance or
creates any hazard in or has an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the treatment works.
   MAY. The term is permissive.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the facility whose building is not used as a
private residence and discharges NDSW.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
      (1)   Activities required to provide for the dependable and economical
functioning of the treatment works, throughout the design or useful life,
whichever is longer of the treatment works, and at the level of performance for
which the treatment works were constructed.
      (2)   The term includes REPLACEMENT.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Expenditures for operation and maintenance,
including replacement.
   REPLACEMENT. Obtaining and installing of equipment, accessories or
appurtenances which are necessary during the design life or useful life,
whichever is longer, of the treatment works to maintain the capacity and
performance for which the works were designed and constructed.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. Expenditures for replacement.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment facility whose building is used
primarily as a private residence and discharges NDSW.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions, together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface
waters which are not admitted intentionally.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The aggregate of all charges, including charges for
operation, maintenance, replacement, debt service and other sewer related
charges that are billed periodically to users of the City’s wastewater
treatment facilities.
   SEWER SERVICE FUND. A fund into which income from sewer service charges is
deposited along with other income, including taxes intended to retire debt
incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater treatment. Expenditure of
the SEWER SERVICE FUND will be for operation, maintenance and replacement costs
and to retire debt incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater
treatment.
   SHALL. The term is mandatory.
   SLUG. A discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration or in
quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer that 15 minutes,
more than five times the average 24-hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1317(a)), which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism,
will cause adverse effects.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on a user of a treatment works for the user’s
proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance, including
replacement.
   USERS. Those residential, commercial, governmental, institutional and
industrial establishments which are connected to the public sewer collection
system.
   WASTEWATER.
      (1)   The spent water of a community, also referred to as SEWAGE; and
      (2)   From the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the
liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings,
industrial plants and institutions together with any ground water, surface
water and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment or processes owned or used by the
City for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works including land
which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from the treatment.
(Prior Code, § 501.112)
§ 51.093 ESTABLISHMENT OF A SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The City hereby establishes a sewer service charge system whereby all
revenue collected from users of the wastewater treatment facilities will be
used to affect all expenditures incurred for annual operation, maintenance and
replacement and for debt service on capital expenditure incurred in
constructing the wastewater treatment works.
   (B)   Each user shall pay its proportionate share of operation, maintenance
and replacement costs of the treatment works, based on the users proportionate
contribution to the total wastewater loading from all users.
   (C)   Each user shall pay debt service charges to retire local capital costs
as determined by the City Council.
   (D)   Sewer service rates and charges to users of the wastewater treatment
facility shall be determined and fixed in a “sewer service charge system”
developed according to the provisions of this subchapter. The sewer service
charge system shall be the system enacted prior to the adoption of this code.
The City Council shall establish sewer service rates and charges by resolution,
from time to time.
   (E)   Revenues collected for sewer service shall be deposited in a separate
fund known as “The Sewer Service Fund”. Income from revenues collected will be
expended to off-set the cost of operation, maintenance and equipment
replacement for the facility and to retire the debt for capital expenditure.
   (F)   Sewer service charges and the sewer service fund will be administrated
in accordance with the provisions of §
51.096 of this chapter.
   (G)   A connection fee as fixed in §
34.01 of this code of ordinances shall be charged to each user connecting a new
service to the sanitary sewer system. The connection fee shall be due and
payable within 90 days of the date the connection is completed.
(Prior Code, § 501.113) (Ord. 2003-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.094 DETERMINATION OF SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   The sewer service rates and charges to users of the wastewater treatment
facility shall be as established by the resolution of the City Council, as
adopted from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 501.114) (Ord. 2003-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.095 SEWER SERVICE FUND.
   (A)   The City hereby establishes a Sewer Service Fund as an income fund to
receive all revenues generated by the sewer service charge system, and all
other income dedicated to the operation, maintenance, replacement and
construction of the wastewater treatment works, including taxes, special
charges, fees and assessments intended to retire construction debt. The City
also establishes the following accounts as income and expenditure accounts
within the Sewer Service Fund:
      (1)   Operation and Maintenance Account;
      (2)   Equipment Replacement Account; and
      (3)   Debt Retirement Account.
   (B)   All revenue generated by the sewer service charge system, and all
other income pertinent to the treatment system, including taxes and special
assessments dedicated to retire construction debt, shall be held by the City
Clerk-Treasurer separate and apart from all other funds of the City. Funds
received by the Sewer Service Fund shall be transferred to the Operation and
Maintenance Account, the Equipment Replacement Account and the Debt Retirement
Account in accordance with state and federal regulations and the provisions of
this chapter.
   (C)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system sufficient to
ensure adequate replacement throughout the design life or useful life,
whichever is longer, of the wastewater facility shall be held separate and
apart in the Equipment Replacement Account and dedicated to affecting
replacement costs. Interest income generated by the Equipment Replacement
Account shall remain in the Equipment Replacement Account.
   (D)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system sufficient for
operation and maintenance shall be held separate and apart in the Operation and
Maintenance Account.
(Prior Code, § 501.115)
§ 51.096 ADMINISTRATION.
   The sewer service charge system and sewer service fund shall be
administrated according to the following provisions.
   (A)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a proper system of accounts
suitable for determining the operation and maintenance, equipment replacement
and debt retirement costs of the treatment works, and shall furnish the City
Council with a report of those costs annually in December. The City Council
shall annually determine whether or not sufficient revenue is being generated
for the effective operation, maintenance, replacement and management of the
treatment works, and whether sufficient revenue is being generated for debt
retirement. The Council will also determine whether the user charges are
distributed proportionately to each user in accordance with §
51.093(B) of this chapter. The City shall thereafter, but not later than the
end of the year, reassess and as necessary revise the sewer service charge
system then in use to ensure the proportionality of the user charges and to
ensure the sufficiency of funds to maintain the capacity and performance to
which the facilities were constructed and to retire the construction debt.
   (B)   In accordance with federal and state requirements, each user will be
notified annually in conjunction with a regular billing of that portion of the
sewer service charge attributable to operation, maintenance and replacement.
   (C)   In accordance with federal and state requirements, the City Clerk-
Treasurer shall be responsible for maintaining all records necessary to
document compliance with the sewer service charge system adopted.
   (D)   (1)   Bills for sewer service charges shall be rendered on a monthly
basis succeeding the period for which the service was rendered and shall be due
ten days from the date of rendering. Any bill not paid in full 60 days after
the due date will be considered delinquent. At that time, the City shall notify
the delinquent owner/occupant in writing regarding the delinquent bill and
subsequent penalty. The penalty shall be computed at 10% of the original bill
and shall be increased the same 10% for every quarter the bill is outstanding.
      (2)   Disconnection of services for late payment shall follow the
procedures established in §
51.097 of this chapter.
   (E)   The owner of the premises shall be liable to pay for the service to
his or her premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the City
only upon the condition that the owner of the premises is liable therefore to
the City.
   (F)   Any additional costs caused by discharges to the treatment works of
toxics or other incompatible wastes, including the cost of restoring wastewater
treatment services, clean up and restoration of the receiving waters and
environs and sludge disposal, shall be borne by the discharger of the wastes,
at no expense to the City.
(Prior Code, § 501.116)
§ 51.097 DETERMINATION OF SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   Users of the wastewater treatment facilities shall be permitted
into one of the following classes:
         (a)   Residential;
         (b)   Non-residential; and
         (c)   Industrial.
      (2)   Charges to users who discharge NDSW will be calculated on the basis
of metered water use.
   (B)   (1)   Each user shall pay operation, maintenance and replacement costs
in proportion to the user’s contribution of wastewater flows and loadings to
the treatment plant, with a minimum rate for loadings of BOD and TSS being the
rate established for normal domestic strength waste (NDSW) concentrations.
      (2)   Those industrial users discharging only segregated NDSW can be
classified as non-residential users for the purposes of rate determination.
   (C)   Charges for residential and non-residential users will be determined
proportionately according to billable wastewater flow.
      (1)   Residential users. Billable wastewater volume for residential users
shall be calculated on the basis of metered water usage. The monthly billable
wastewater volume will be equal to the monthly metered water usage. The City
may require residential users to install water meters for the purpose of
determining billable wastewater volume.
      (2)   Non-residential users. Billable wastewater volume of non-
residential users may be determined in the same manner as for residential
users. The City may require non-residential users to install additional water
meters or wastewater flow meters as may be necessary to determine billable
wastewater volume.
   (D)   The sewer service charges established in this subchapter will not
prevent the assessment of additional charges to users who discharge wastes in
concentrations greater than NDSW or of unusual character (industrial users).
Special contractual agreements can be made with the users, subject to the
following conditions.
      (1)   The user pays OM&R costs in proportion to the user’s contribution
of wastewater flows and loadings to the treatment facility, and no user is
charged at a rate inferior to the charge for normal domestic strength wastes.
      (2)   The sampling of wastewater shall be conducted in accordance with
the techniques established in Standard methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, latest edition.
   (E)   Determination of user charges:
      (1)   For producers of normal domestic strength wastes:
            Uomr   =    OM&R
                   Tbwv
      Where:
      Uomr      =   Unit cost for operation, maintenance and equipment
replacement in $/Kgal
      OM&R   =   Total annual OM&R costs
      Tbwv      =   Total annual billable wastewater flow in Kgal
      (2)   Calculation of user charges:
            UC   =   Uomr x Bwv + Base
      Where:
      UC      =   User charge
      Uomr      =   Unit cost for operation, maintenance and equipment
replacement in $/Kgal
      Bwv      =   Billable wastewater volume in Kgal
      Base      =   Base charge for administration costs
   (F)   Local construction costs for the wastewater treatment facility will be
recovered through a debt service charge calculated in a manner consistent with
the user charge as follows:
      (1)   Calculation of unit cost for debt service:
            Uads   =    Ads
                   Tbwv
      Where:
      Uads      =   Unit cost for annual debt service ($/Kgal)
      Ads       =   Cost of annual debt service
      Tbwv      =   Total annual billable wastewater volume (Kgal)
      (2)   Calculation of debt service charge:
            DSC   =   Uds x Bwv
      Where:
      DSC      =   Debt service charge
      Uds      =   Unit charge for debt service ($/Kgal)
      Bwv      =   Billable wastewater volume of a single user (Kgal)
   (G)   The sewer service charge for a particular connection shall be
determined as follows:
            SSC   =   UC + DSC
      Where:
      SSC      =   Sewer service charge
      UC      =   User charge
      DSC      =   Debt service charge
(Prior Code, § 501.117)
§ 51.098 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the City to discontinue sewer service to customers
by reason of non-payment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The City’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill;
      (2)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill will
be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within ten
days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for non-
payment; and
      (3)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the City official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the City to discontinue sewer service to
a customer for non-payment of bills, service will be reinstated only after all
bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge as
established by §
34.01 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 501.118)
POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 51.110 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES PERMITTED TO ENTER ALL PROPERTIES.
   The Utilities Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the City,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observations, measurement, sampling
and testing pertinent to the discharges to the City’s sewer system in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 501.130)
§ 51.111 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES OBTAINING INFORMATION FOR INDUSTRIAL PROCESSES.
   The Utilities Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are
authorized to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a
direct bearing on the type and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. An industry may withhold information considered confidential; however,
the industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the
information in question might result in an advantage to competitors.
(Prior Code, § 501.131)
§ 51.112 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES TO OBSERVE SAFETY RULES.
   While performing necessary work on private properties, the Utilities
Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the City shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the
property owner shall be held harmless for injury or death to the City employees
and the City shall indemnify the property owner against loss or damage to its
property by City employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as may be caused by negligence or
failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
51.072 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 501.132)
§ 51.113 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES PERMITTED TO ENTER ALL PROPERTY WITH EASEMENTS.
   The Utilities Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the City
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the
easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated
easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 501.133)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this
chapter shall be served by the City with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the
notice, permanently cease all violations.
         (b)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time
limit provided for in division (A)(1) above shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day in which any violation occurs shall
be deemed as a separate offense.
         (c)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the City for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the
City by reason of that violation, including reasonable attorney, and
investigator, staff and expert fees.
         (d) In addition to any other civil remedy, the City may impose a civil
fine upon any user for negligent or intentional violation of this chapter. The
fines shall be added to the user’s next sewer service charge after reasonable
notice to the user.
      (2)   Any user desiring to dispute the civil fine may request a hearing
before the City Council to reconsider the imposition of the fine. The request
for hearing shall be made within 20 days of notice of the fine. The hearing on
the request to reconsider shall be held within 30 days of receipt of the
request, but may be continued for good cause or by agreement of the City and
user.
      (3)   The fine imposed shall not exceed the greater of $1,000 per. Each
day that a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense and shall
subject the user to a separate civil fine.
   (B)   (1)   Each and every sewer service charge levied by and pursuant to §§
51.090 through
51.098 of this chapter is made a lien upon the lot or premises served, and all
charges which are on October 31 of each year past due and delinquent shall be
certified to the County Auditor by November 30 as taxes or assessments on the
real estate. Nothing in §§
51.090 through
51.098 of this chapter shall be held or construed as in any way stopping or
interfering with the right of the City to levy as taxes or assessments against
any premises affected any delinquent or past due sewer service charges.
      (2)   As an alternative to levying a lien, the City may, at its
discretion, file suit in a civil action to collect amounts as are delinquent
and due against the occupant, owner or user of the real estate, and shall
collect as well all attorney’s fees incurred by the City in filing the civil
action. Attorney’s fees shall be fixed by order of the court.
      (3)   In addition to all penalties and costs attributable and chargeable
to recording notices of the lien or filing a civil action, the owner or user of
the real estate being serviced by the treatment works shall be liable for
interest upon all unpaid balances at the rate of 8% per annum.
(Prior Code, § 501.999)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   General operation
   
52.02   Use of water service
   
52.03   Use to circumvent chapter prohibited
   
52.04   Damage to water system
   
52.05   Connections beyond City boundaries
   
52.06   Wells; connection to system required
   
52.07   Use of water from fire hydrants; temporary connections
   
52.08   Water deficiency, shut off and use restrictions
Water Regulations
   
52.20   Supply from one service
   
52.21   Tapping of mains restricted
   
52.22   Repairs
   
52.23   Abandoned or unused services
   
52.24   Disconnection permit
   
52.25   Service pipes
   
52.26   Excavation and construction requirements
   
52.27   Connection to other water supplies restricted
   
52.28   Water connections; applications and charges
   
52.29   Location of curb stop box
   
52.30   Water meters
   
52.31   Lawn sprinkling; irrigation ban
Rates and Charges
   
52.45   Water unit
   
52.46   Rates, fees and charges generally
   
52.47   Water service billing; change of address
   
52.48   Water rates
   
52.49   Payment of charges; late payment; collection
Administration and Enforcement
   
52.65   Supervision by Utilities Superintendent
   
52.66   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
52.67   Discontinuance of service
   
52.68   Authorized employees to turn water on and off
   
52.69   Liability for expense, loss or damage
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 GENERAL OPERATION.
   The City does hereby make provision for the establishment of a municipal
water system (hereinafter called the “water system”) to be operated as a public
utility.
(Prior Code, § 502.01)
§ 52.02 USE OF WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   No person other than a City employee shall uncover or make or use any
water service installation connected to the City water system, except in the
manner provided by this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall make or use any installation contrary to the
regulatory provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 502.02) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 USE TO CIRCUMVENT CHAPTER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall permit water from the water system to be used for any
purpose to circumvent this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 502.03) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 DAMAGE TO WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall remove or damage any structure,
appurtenance or part of the water system or fill or partially fill any
excavation or move any gate valve used in the water system.
   (B)   No person shall make any connection of an electrical welder to the
City water main, appurtenance or service or use an electric welder for the
purpose of thawing frozen water mains, appurtenances or services.
(Prior Code, § 502.04) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 CONNECTIONS BEYOND CITY BOUNDARIES.
   Where water mains of the City are in any street or alley adjacent to or
outside the corporate limits of the City, the City Council may issue permits to
the owners or occupants of properties adjacent or accessible to the water main
to make proper water service pipe connections with the water mains of the City
and to be supplied with water in conformity with the applicable provisions of
this chapter and subject to any contract for the supply of water between the
City and any other City.
(Prior Code, § 502.05) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 WELLS; CONNECTION TO SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   (A)   “Availability” defined. Water from the municipal water system shall be
considered AVAILABLE, if a connection to the municipal system lies within 300
feet of the property line of any parcel of land.
   (B)   Required connection.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to install, construct, reconstruct, maintain,
use or repair any private water well or unmetered water system which is
designed or intended to provide water for domestic purposes unless:
         (a)   Municipal water is not available; and
         (b)   The property owner obtains a conditional use permit from the
City.
      (2)   DOMESTIC USE OR PURPOSE means that the water is used or consumed by
humans.
   (C)   Private water wells; when allowed.
      (1)   Residential properties.
         (a)   Notwithstanding division (B) above, private water wells in use
on 12-31-2006 and servicing residential homes may continue to be used through
12-1-2009, or whenever any improvement is made upon the property requiring the
issuance of a building permit, whichever occurs first.
         (b)   At that time, the property owner must connect to the municipal
water system, or obtain a conditional use permit for the continued use of the
private water well, under division (E) below.
         (c)   All water usage from existing water wells must be metered with
City approved remote-read water meters by no later than 2-28-2008.
      (2)   Non-residential properties (industrial, commercial and rural
service districts).
         (a)   Before December 2009.
            1.   Notwithstanding division (B) above, private water wells in use
on 12-31-2006 and servicing non-residential properties, may continue to be used
through 12-1-2009, or whenever any improvement is made upon the property which
requires a building permit, whichever occurs first.
            2.   At that time, the property must connect to the municipal water
system or obtain a conditional use permit under division (E) below.
            3.   All water usage from existing water wells must be metered with
City approved remote-read meters no later than 2-28-2008.
         (b)   After December 2009. Private water wells may be allowed by
conditional use permit for non-residential properties after 12-1-2009, under
the following circumstances only:
            1.   For domestic use purposes, if municipal water is not available
and all water usage from the private water well is metered with a City approved
remote-read water meter; or
            2.   a.   The private water well is used solely for non-domestic
purposes, including crop irrigation, industrial or commercial purposes, and as
long as the water from the private well does not enter into the Dundas sanitary
sewer system and all water usage from the private well is metered with a City
approved remote-read water meter; and
               b.   Private water wells which are continued or maintained after
any structure is connected to the municipal water system shall have no means of
cross-connection between the private well and the municipal system at any time.
Hose bibbs that will enable cross-connections of the two systems are
prohibited.
   (D)   Discontinuation of private water wells. If the private water well will
not be used after connection to the municipal water system is made:
      (1)   The well pump and tank shall be disconnected from all internal
piping;
      (2)   The well casing or boring shall be filled with grout from the
bottom to a point which is two feet from the established ground surface or
floor level;
      (3)   Within 30 days after the municipal water connection is made, the
owner or occupant must advise the City’s Utilities Superintendent that the well
has been sealed; and
      (4)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, all well abandonment shall be done
in accordance with M.S. §§ 103I.301 to 103I.345, as it may be amended from time
to time, and Minn. Rules Ch. 4725.
   (E)   Conditional use permits.
      (1)   Private water wells may be used, installed and maintained within
the City by conditional use permit only in the following cases:
         (a)   When used for non-domestic industrial, commercial or
agricultural purposes and none of the water from the private water well will
enter the City municipal sanitary sewer district; or
         (b)   When used for domestic consumption purposes and water from the
City’s municipal water system is not available.
      (2)   Conditional use permits shall be issued only on the following
conditions.
         (a)   All water use must be metered by a City approved remote-read
water meter.
         (b)   The property owner either consents to annual inspections by the
City or provides annual certification by a licensed plumber, of the property
owner’s choosing to assure that no unmetered or non-domestic water is entering
the City’s sanitary sewer system.
         (c)   The property connects to the municipal water system when
municipal water is available.
   (F)   Connection to municipal system after availability.
      (1)   Effective 12-1-2009, all properties which have municipal water
available to them, as described above, shall be required to connect to the
municipal water system, and seal any private well which is used or maintained
upon the property for domestic purposes. The connecting property shall pay for
the cost of the extension of the municipal water system, or petition the City
for extension of the water system by the City, under M.S. Ch. 429, as it may be
amended from time to time, so that connection is completed by 12-1-2009.
      (2)   All connections to the municipal water system shall be completed by
a licensed plumber.
   (G)   Enforcement provisions.
      (1)   (a)   Compliance with the provisions of this code section, which
require that a remote-read, City approved water meter be installed by a
specified date, or annually verified, may be established by obtaining an
inspection of each building located on each property where there is a privately
owned water well, by an inspector designated by the City. If the property owner
refuses to provide City officials consent to enter upon the property, then the
City may obtain an administrative search warrant, in a civil action to require
compliance with this code section.
         (b)   In lieu of having the City inspect the property, the owner may,
by no later than the specified due date, furnish a certificate from a licensed
plumber of the owner’s choosing, in a form acceptable to the City, that the
property is in compliance with this code section.
         (c)   The purpose of the inspection is to confirm that an approved
water meter is installed and that no water from a private well is being
discharged into the City’s sanitary sewer system in violation of this section.
      (2)   The City may commence a civil action to compel compliance with this
section. If the City prevails in the civil action, the City shall also recover
all of its costs and expenses incurred in the action, including reasonable
attorney fees.
      (3)   For each month that a property having a private water well has
failed to establish compliance with this section, the property shall be
assessed a sewer fee of $200 per month until compliance is established. The fee
shall be certified to the County Auditor for collection with the property taxes
due with respect to the parcel of land affected.
Type of Property Requirements from present date to Requirements after 12-1-2009
                 12-1-2009
Type of Property         Requirements from present   Requirements after 12-1-
                         date to 12-1-2009           2009
Industrial/Commercial/Rural Service Districts
                         Private well may continue
                         for domestic use through    Must connect to municipal
                         12-1-2009, or until repair  system for domestic use,
                         or improvement. Then,       unless CUP obtained due to
                         connection or CUP required. no availability
Existing private water   Must install water meter by
wells                    2-28-2008
                         May be continued
                         indefinitely for non-
                         domestic use by obtaining   Requirements are same for
                         conditional use permit, and non-domestic use
                         if no disposal into sewer
                         system and metered
                         No private well for
                         domestic use, unless
                         municipal water
New construction         unavailable. Then, CUP is   Requirements are the same
                         required
                         Non-domestic use permitted
                         by CUP
Residential Properties
                         No private wells permitted,
New construction         unless municipal water      Same requirements
                         unavailable. Then, CUP is
                         required
                         Private well may continue
                         through 12-1-2009, or until Private well use must
Properties with existing repair or improvement to    discontinue unless CUP
private water wells      the property must be        approved, due to no
                         metered. Must install water availability
                         meter by 2-28-2008
 
(Prior Code, § 52.06) (Ord. 2007-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 52.07 USE OF WATER FROM FIRE HYDRANTS; TEMPORARY CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Use of fire hydrants. Except for extinguishment of fires, no person,
unless authorized by the Public Works Director or Public Utilities Department,
shall operate fire hydrants or interfere in any way with the water system
without first obtaining a permit to do so from the City as follows.
      (1)   A permit to use a fire hydrant shall be issued for each individual
job or contract and for a minimum of 30 days and for the additional 30-day
period as the City shall determine. The permit shall state the location of the
hydrant and shall be for the use of that hydrant and none other.
      (2)   The user shall make an advance cash deposit to guarantee payment
for water used and to cover breakage and damage to the hydrant and meter, which
shall be refunded upon expiration of the permit, less applicable charges for
use.
      (3)   The user shall relinquish the use of the hydrant to authorized City
employees in emergency situations.
      (4)   The user shall pay a rental charge for each day including Sundays
and legal holidays, and a fee as established by §
34.01 of this code of ordinances for each 1,000 gallons of water used.
   (B)   Temporary connection to fire hydrants. An owner of a private water
system may make a temporary above ground connection to a fire hydrant, subject
to the time periods, conditions and payment specified in §
52.46 of this chapter. In addition, the method of connection to the private
system shall conform to all existing requirements of this chapter and City
ordinance and the type of meter used shall meet the approval of the Utilities
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 502.07) (Ord. 2003-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.08 WATER DEFICIENCY, SHUT OFF AND USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The City shall not be liable for any deficiency or failure in the
supply of water to consumers, whether occasioned by shutting the water off for
the purpose of making repairs or connections or from any other cause
whatsoever.
   (B)   In case of fire, or alarm of fire, or in making repairs of
construction of new works, water may be shut off without notice at any time and
kept off as long as necessary.
   (C)   In addition, the City Council shall have the right to impose
reasonable restrictions on the use of the City water system in emergency
situations.
   (D)   For non-payment of charges, water service may be discontinued
according to the procedures established in §
52.67 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 502.08)
WATER REGULATIONS
§ 52.20 SUPPLY FROM ONE SERVICE.
   No more than one housing unit or building shall be supplied from one service
connection, except by permission of City Council. Each unit served shall have a
separate water meter.
(Prior Code, § 502.25) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.21 TAPPING OF MAINS RESTRICTED.
   No person, except persons authorized by the City Council, shall tap any
distributing main or pipe of the water supply system or insert stopcocks or
ferrules therein.
(Prior Code, § 502.26) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.22 REPAIRS.
   (A)   Determination of need for repairs. Based on the information supplied
by the property owner or available to the City, the City will make a
determination whether a problem exists in that portion of the service which is
the City’s responsibility. If the problem, appears to exist in the areas for
which the City has no responsibility, the private owners will be responsible
for correction of the problem.
   (B)   Thawing of water services. The City will attempt to thaw water
services on request of the resident. If the problem is found within that
portion of the service for which the private owner is responsible, the private
owner thereafter will be responsible for thawing the service and correction of
the problem.
   (C)   Excavation or repair of water service.
      (1)   The City will arrange for the investigative digging up and repair
of any water service where the problem apparently exists within that area for
which the City has responsibility.
      (2)   Unless it is clearly evident, however, that the problem is the
responsibility of the City, the excavation and repair will not be made until
the property owner requests the City in writing to excavate or repair the
service and agrees to pay the cost.
      (3)   The owner further agrees to waive public hearing and be special
assessed the cost of the excavation and repair if the problem is found to be
other than the City’s responsibility. The City will make the determination for
responsibility of the cost of investigation or repair.
      (4)   The matter of whether the dig up is done by City forces or
contracted would depend on the urgency or need of repair and the availability
of City forces to do the work. Recovery by the City for faulty construction
will depend upon the circumstances and the decision of the City Attorney on the
likelihood of recovery.
   (D)   Failure to repair. In case of failure upon the part of any consumer or
owner to repair any leak occurring in his or her service pipe within 24 hours
after verbal or written notice thereof, the water may be turned off by the City
and shall not be turned on until the leak has been repaired and a fee pursuant
to §
34.01 of this code of ordinances has been paid to the City.
(Prior Code, § 502.27) (Ord. 2003-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.23 ABANDONED OR UNUSED SERVICES.
   (A)   If the premises served by water have been abandoned, or if the service
has not been used for one year, then the service shall be shut off at the curb
stop box by the City and the water meter will be removed.
   (B)   When new buildings are erected on the site of old ones, and it is
desired to increase or change the old water service, no connections with the
mains shall be made until all the old service has been removed and the main
taps plugged or yoked connections installed by the City at the owner’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 502.28) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.24 DISCONNECTION PERMIT.
   (A)   A permit must be obtained to disconnect from the existing water
service leads at the curb stop box.
   (B)   The fee for the permit shall be set pursuant to §
34.01 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 502.29) (Ord. 2003-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.25 SERVICE PIPES.
   Every service pipe shall be laid so as to allow at least one foot of extra
length in order to prevent rupture by settlement. The service pipe must be
placed no less than seven feet below the ground and in a manner as to prevent
rupture by freezing. Service pipes must extend from the curb stop box to the
inside of the building or, if not taken into the building, then to the hydrant
or fixtures which it is intended to supply. Type K copper tubing shall be used
up to and including two-inch services. All underground joints are to be
mechanical, except joints under floors shall be silver soldered, unless
otherwise approved by the Utilities Superintendent. Joints of copper tubing
shall be kept, to a minimum, with not more than one joint used for service for
each 70 feet in length. Splicing may be approved with three-piece unions only.
All joints and connections shall be left uncovered until inspected by the
Utilities Superintendent and tested at normal water line pressure. Unions must
be three-part type. All services over two inches shall be cast iron.
Connections with the mains for domestic supply shall be at least three-quarter
inch up to the curb stop box.
(Prior Code, § 502.30) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.26 EXCAVATION AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No excavation shall be made until a permit for the connection has been
issued by the City.
   (B)   No water service pipe or water connection shall be installed in the
same trench or closer than ten feet horizontally to a sewer trench or drain
laid, or to be laid, either in the street or in private property; except that,
the water pipe on private property may be in a common trench with a sewer drain
which is of a material that is in conformance with the current Minnesota
Plumbing Code, Minn. Rules Ch. 4715, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   (1)   Where it is desired to lay the water service pipe and the
building sewer pipe in the same trench, or in separate trenches less than ten
feet apart, the water service pipe shall be above the sewer pipe unless
approved by the City Engineer. It shall be placed at least one foot above the
sewer and on a solid shelf excavated at one side of the trench. The sewer pipe
shall be of a material that is in conformance with the Minnesota Plumbing Code
with tested water-tight joints. The water service pipe shall be water-tight and
corrosion resistant. Copper pipe and cast iron water pipe with specially
protected joints is acceptable for this construction. Cast iron pipe shall
conform to the American Water Works Association specifications for this pipe.
Bell joint clamps with rubber gaskets are provisionally acceptable as extra
protection for the joints on cast iron water pipe.
      (2)   In all cases, precautions shall be taken to assure a firm
foundation for the pipes. The intervening space between the pipes shall be
backfilled with compacted earth.
   (D)   (1)   In case the installation is on a surfaced street, the following
shall apply: all backfill materials shall be mechanically compacted in 12-inch
layers to the density of the adjacent material in the roadway area and to the
existing street grades in accordance with the state’s Department of
Transportation standards.
      (2)   Complete surface restoration shall be made.
(Prior Code, § 502.31) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.27 CONNECTION TO OTHER WATER SUPPLIES RESTRICTED.
   No water pipe of the water system shall be connected with any pump, well,
tank or piping that is connected with any other source of water supply, except
to service municipal systems.
(Prior Code, § 502.32) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.28 WATER CONNECTIONS; APPLICATIONS AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Connection applications.
      (1)   All applications for service installations and for water service
shall be made to the City Clerk-Treasurer. All applications for service
installations and water service shall be made by the owner or agent of the
property to be served and shall state the size and location of service
connection required. The applicant shall, at the time of making application,
pay to the City the amount of fees as established by §
34.01 of this code of ordinances or deposit required for the installation of
the service connection as hereinafter provided. Applications for services
larger than one inch shall be accompanied by two sets of plans or sketches
indicating preferred location of service pipe and size of service based on
building demand.
      (2)   The size of the water service connections and meter shall be
subject to approval of the City Engineer or Utility Superintendent.
      (3)   Water billing shall start at the time of installation of the water
meter, or in the event the meter is not installed, seven days after completion
of outside piping, and shall be calculated upon the minimum monthly rate,
prorated on a semi-monthly basis.
   (B)   Connection charges.
      (1)   A permit must be obtained to connect to the existing water service
leads at the curb stop box. The fee for the permit shall be set pursuant to §
34.01 of this code of ordinances. The City shall install or have installed all
service connections from the water main to the curb stop box, including the
stop box. Payment for service connections must be made before the work is
started, and should be based upon one and one-half times the estimate of costs
provided by the City Engineer. Any excess deposit shall be returned to the
applicant.
      (2)   Additional charges shall be paid at the time of making application
for tapping and making connections with the water main to where a curb stop box
and service lead is not previously installed. The charge shall include the
tapping of the water main, corporation cocks, the installation of a service
line, the installation of a curb stop box, cost of restoring disturbed areas
and all other costs related to the installation.
      (3)   There shall be a connection charge pursuant to §
34.01 of this code of ordinances levied by the City to contribute to the
payment of the costs of the public water system facilities. The City Council
shall set by resolution the charges to be made for non-residential
installations.
      (4)   When water services have been stopped because of a violation of
this chapter, the City shall collect the fee established pursuant to §
34.01 of this code of ordinances before service is recommenced.
      (5)   If a person desires to connect to the system and service a parcel
that has not been assessed for the cost of water main and lateral construction,
then before a permit is granted, the City shall collect an amount from the
applicant that is established pursuant to §
34.01 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 502.33) (Ord. 2003-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.29 LOCATION OF CURB STOP BOX.
   (A)   Curb stop boxes will be installed on the right-of-way line or easement
limits at a location as determined by the City Engineer to be best suitable to
the property and shall be left in a vertical position when backfilling is
completed. Curb stop boxes will be installed at an approximate depth of seven
feet below the finished ground elevation and the top of the curb stop box shall
be adjusted to be flush with the finished ground elevation. Curb stop boxes
must be firmly supported by a masonry block.
   (B)   No person shall erect any fence or plant any tree or other landscaping
that would obstruct the use of the curb stop box or cause damage to the same.
(Prior Code, § 502.34) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.30 WATER METERS.
   (A)   Generally. Except for extinguishment of fires, no person, unless
otherwise authorized by the City Council or Public Utilities Department, shall
use water from the water system or permit water to be drawn therefrom unless
the same be metered by passing through a meter supplied or approved by the
City. No person not authorized by the City Council or Utilities Superintendent
shall connect, disconnect, take apart or in any manner change or cause to be
changed or interfere with any meter or the action thereof or break any meter or
valve seal.
      (1)   A charge established pursuant to §
52.46 of this chapter shall be paid by customers to the City for water meters
including installations and check valves and payment for same shall be made at
the time of water service application. This payment shall be made only once,
subject to the following.
      (2)   Where a consumer has need for a larger line in addition to his or
her domestic line, as in the case of a commercial consumer who needs a one-inch
line for normal use and a six-inch or larger line for a fire sprinkler system,
he or she will be permitted to run one line into the premises and “Y” off into
two lines at the building. When this is done, the meter will be attached to the
small or domestic line and a check valve as well as one-inch detection meter
shall be put on the large line.
      (3)   The City shall maintain and repair all meters when rendered
unserviceable through ordinary wear and tear and shall replace them if
necessary. When replacement, repair or adjustment of any meter is rendered by
the act, neglect (including damage from freezing or hot water backup) or
carelessness of the owner or occupant of the premises, any expense caused the
City thereby shall be charged against and collected from the water consumer.
      (4)   A consumer may, by written request, have his or her meter tested by
paying the amount established pursuant to §
34.01 of this code of ordinances. In case a test should show an error of over
5% of the water consumed, a correctly registering meter will be installed, and
the bill will be adjusted accordingly and the testing payment refunded. This
adjustment shall not extend back more than one billing period from the date of
the written request.
      (5)   All water meters and remote readers shall be and remain the
property of the City.
      (6)   Authorized City employees shall have free access at reasonable
hours of the day to all parts of every building and premises connected with the
water system for reading of meters and inspections.
      (7)   It shall be the responsibility of the consumer to notify the City
to request a final reading at the time of the customer’s billing change.
      (8)   If the City Council orders the Citywide replacement of water
meters, then the City may charge for the cost and installation of the
replacement water meter on the monthly bill for each user.
   (B)   Water meter setting. All water meters hereafter installed shall be in
accordance with the Minnesota Plumbing Code and any standards established by
resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 502.35) (Ord. 2003-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.31 LAWN SPRINKLING; IRRIGATION BAN.
   The City hereby imposes a lawn sprinkling/irrigation ban from May 1 through
October 15. This ban applies to water from the municipal system, and is
intended to conserve water as well as ensure an adequate supply for fire
emergencies. If the last digit of a street address is an odd number, lawn
sprinkling/irrigation may occur on odd-numbered days of the month. If the last
digit of the street address is an even number, lawn sprinkling/irrigation may
occur on even-numbered days of the month. Exceptions will be made for large,
newly-seeded or sodded areas and new trees or shrubs. Homeowner associations
are regulated by the same odd-even sprinkling ban. Where the association system
cannot be controlled in an odd/even number manner, then the system shall be set
to control 50% of its locations in a similar fashion. Any questions are to be
directed to the City Administrator.
(Ord. 2010-02, passed 4-26-2010; Ord. 2023-05, passed 7-10-2023) Penalty, see §
52.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.45 WATER UNIT.
   A water unit (hereinafter called “unit”) shall be one residential equivalent
connection based on usage of 100,000 gallons per year or portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 502.50)
§ 52.46 RATES, FEES AND CHARGES GENERALLY.
   The City Council shall establish a schedule of all water rates, fees and
charges for permits or services.
(Prior Code, § 502.51) (Ord. 2003-02, passed - -)
§ 52.47 WATER SERVICE BILLING; CHANGE OF ADDRESS.
   All bills and notices shall be mailed or delivered to the address where
service is provided. If non-resident owners or agents desire personal notice
sent to a different address, they shall so note on the water service
application. Any change or error in address shall be promptly reported to the
City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 502.52)
§ 52.48 WATER RATES.
   (A)   The rate due and payable by each user within the City for water taken
from the water system shall be established pursuant to §
52.46 of this chapter.
   (B)   In case the meter is found to have stopped, or to be operating in a
faulty manner, the amount of water used will be estimated in accordance with
the amount used previously in comparable periods of the year.
   (C)   Rates due and payable by each water user located beyond the
territorial boundaries of the City shall be determined by special contract.
   (D)   The minimum rates established pursuant to §
34.01 of this code of ordinances shall begin to accrue after connection of the
service pipe with the curb stop box.
   (E)   A meter shall be installed on the water valve in the house and a
remote register outside regardless of whether inside piping is connected.
   (F)   In the event a water customer elects to discontinue the use of the
municipal water, the regular or minimum charge shall continue until the date as
service is disconnected at the curb box.
(Prior Code, § 502.53) (Ord. 2003-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.49 PAYMENT OF CHARGES; LATE PAYMENT; COLLECTION.
   (A)   Any prepayment or overpayment of charges may be retained by the City
and applied on subsequent quarterly charges.
   (B)   If a quarterly service charge is not paid when due, then a penalty of
10% shall be added thereto.
   (C)   In the event a user fails to pay his or her water user fee within a
reasonable time following discontinuance of service (a time period not to
exceed 90 days), the fee shall be certified by the City Clerk-Treasurer and
assessed against the property on which the charges have incurred and forwarded
to the County Auditor for collection.
(Prior Code, § 502.54) Penalty, see §
52.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.65 SUPERVISION BY UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   All piping connections from the curb stop box to house supply piping
shall be made under the supervision of a licensed plumber subject to inspection
by the Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   The piping connection made to the curb stop box on the house side
shall be inspected by the Utilities Superintendent.
   (C)   The water meter installation shall be inspected, tested and the meter
sealed by the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 502.70)
§ 52.66 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   The Utilities Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
City, upon proper identification, shall be permitted to enter upon all
properties for the purpose of inspections, observation and testing in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 502.71)
§ 52.67 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Generally. Water service may be shut off at any connection whenever:
      (1)   The owner or occupant of the premises served or any person working
on any pipes or equipment thereon which are connected with the water system has
violated, or threatens to violate, any of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Any charge for water, service, meter or any other financial
obligations imposed on the present or former owner or occupant served is
unpaid; and/or
      (3)   Fraud or misrepresentation by the owner or occupant of the premises
serviced in connection with an application for service.
   (B)   Disconnection for late payment.
      (1)   It is the policy of the City to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of non-payment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The City’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill;
         (b)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
non-payment; and
         (c)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the City official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the City to discontinue utility
service to a customer for non-payment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge as established by City Council resolution.
(Prior Code, § 502.72)
§ 52.68 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES TO TURN WATER ON AND OFF.
   No person, except an authorized City employee or a person authorized by the
Utility Superintendent, shall turn on or off any water supply at the curb stop
box.
(Prior Code, § 502.73) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.69 LIABILITY FOR EXPENSE, LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the City for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the City by
reason of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 502.74)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Violation of §
52.31 of this chapter is a petty misdemeanor.
      (2)   In addition, the City reserves the right to commence a civil action
to compel compliance with §
52.31 of this chapter. If the City prevails in the civil action, the City shall
also recover all of its costs and expenses incurred in the action, including
reasonable attorney fees.
      (3)   Violations will be certified by visual inspection and or
observation.
(Ord. 2010-02, passed 4-26-2010)
CHAPTER 53: UTILITY FRANCHISES
Section
   
53.01   Gas franchise
   
53.02   Electric franchise
§ 53.01 GAS FRANCHISE.
   The gas distribution franchise between the City and Northern States Power
Company, d/b/a Xcel Energy, is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
herein as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, § 503.02) (Ord. 2013-02, passed 8-26-2013)
§ 53.02 ELECTRIC FRANCHISE.
   The electric distribution franchise between the City and Northern States
Power Company, d/b/a Xcel Energy, is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, § 503.01) (Ord. 2013-01, passed 8-26-2013; Ord. 2023-10, passed 9-
25-2023)
CHAPTER 54: STORM WATER UTILITY
Section
   
54.01   Title
   
54.02   Authority
   
54.03   Definitions
   
54.04   Purpose
   
54.05   Fees and charges; calculation
   
54.06   Calculations of fees and charges
   
54.07   Establishing unit rates
   
54.08   Standardized charges
   
54.09   Adjustments to charges
   
54.10   Adjustments to area
   
54.11   Land use adjustment
§ 54.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be titled and referred to as the “Storm Water Utility
Ordinance”.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 3-24-2014)
§ 54.02 AUTHORITY.
   The Storm Water Utility shall be operated as a public utility pursuant to
this code of ordinances and applicable statutes. The revenues shall be subject
to provisions of this chapter and M.S. § 444.075, as it may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 3-24-2014)
§ 54.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LAND USE. The land use for a given parcel shall be one of the land use
classifications as shown in the Land Use Chart as determined by the City’s
Zoning Officer.
   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL. Land use classification of parcels with four or
more living units.
   RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENCY FACTOR. Referred to herein as REF. The ratio of the
accumulated direct runoff generated by a particular land use to the accumulated
direct runoff generated by the residential land use.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL. Land use classification of parcels with three or
less living units.
   STORM WATER. Water that originates during precipitation events. It may also
be used to apply to water that originates with snowmelt that enters the storm
water system.
   STORM WATER COLLECTION SYSTEM. The system of underground pipes, open
channels, inlets, catch basins, maintenance hatches and pumping stations used
to collect surface runoff and convey it to a natural watercourse or to a
treatment plant; usually human-made.
   SURFACE AREA. Referred to herein as SA. The area of the parcel in acres,
subject to any standardization, adjustments or exceptions outlined in this
chapter.
   SURFACE RUNOFF. Storm water that does not soak into the ground becomes
surface runoff, which either flows directly into surface waterways or is
channeled into storm sewers, which eventually discharge to surface waters.
   UNIT RATE. Referred to herein as UR. The rate in dollars per acre to be
charged per one REF as established by the City Council per §
54.05 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 3-24-2014)
§ 54.04 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a funding mechanism for the
following services:
   (A)   The administration, planning, analysis, installation, operation,
maintenance and replacement of public drainage systems;
   (B)   The administration, planning, implementation, construction and
maintenance of storm water best management practices (BMP) to reduce the
introduction of sediment and other pollutants into local water resources;
   (C)   Other education, engineering, inspection, monitoring, testing and
enforcement activities as necessary to maintain compliance with local, state
and federal storm water requirements;
   (D)   Activities necessary to maintain compliance with the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) municipal separate storm sewer
systems (MS4) permit requirements established by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, including preparation, implementation and management of a
storm water pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) to address the following control
measures:
      (1)   Public education and outreach on storm water impacts;
      (2)   Public involvement/participation;
      (3)   Illicit discharge detection and elimination;
      (4)   Construction site storm water runoff control;
      (5)   Post-construction runoff control in new development and
redevelopment; and
      (6)   Pollution prevention for municipal operations.
   (E)   The Storm Water Utility shall be part of the Public Works Department
and shall be operated by the Public Works Director, as directed by the City
Administrator. This chapter shall apply to the entire City.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 3-24-2014)
§ 54.05 FEES AND CHARGES; CALCULATION.
   (A)   In determining charges the City Council may establish a storm water
utility policy and credit policy to specify application fees, exemptions and
exceptions, unit areas, residential equivalency factors and unit rates to
charge utility users based upon the volume or direct runoff estimated to be
generated by various land uses within the City.
      (1)   Unit rate fee. The unit rate fee will be established and amended
from time to time by a resolution of the City Council.
      (2)   Minimum or maximum fees. The City Council may establish minimum or
maximum monthly fee per parcel.
      (3)   Estimated charges. If for any reason precise information related to
the use, development or area of a premise is not available, then storm water
utility charges for the premises shall be estimated and billed based upon
information then available to the City.
      (4)   Billing method. Storm water utility fees will be computed and
collected by the City together with other City utility fees. For properties not
serviced by City utilities, storm water utility fees will be computed on a
semi-annual basis and be due on May 15 and October 15 of each year.
      (5)   Delinquent accounts. Delinquent and unpaid storm water utility fees
may be certified to the County Auditor for collection with real estate taxes
during the following year or any year thereafter pursuant to M.S. § 444.075,
subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (6)   Appeal. If a property owner believes that the fee charged to a
particular property is incorrect, they may request review and re-computation of
the fee.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 3-24-2014)
§ 54.06 CALCULATIONS OF FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Determining the REF. The accumulated direct runoff (Q) used to
determine the REFs shall be calculated based on an evaluation of the land use
and application of a standardized soil type and rainfall event.
   (B)   The calculated direct runoff (Q) shall be based on the runoff equation
in the Soil Conservation Services (SCS) National Engineering Handbook Section 4
- Hydrology. The City has utilized SCS TR-55 “Runoff Curve Numbers for Urban
Areas,” and a two-inch rainfall to determine runoff from varied land uses, and
to establish REF values.
   (C)   The established “REF” for various zoning classifications in the city
is as follows:
 
Zoning Classification          REF
Undeveloped/Vacant Land/Bluffs 0.843
RS/AG                          0.535
NRSF/LDSF                      0.640
R1, R2, R3                     1.000
B1, B2                         1.643
LI, GI                         1.419
 
      (1)   The average single family lot in the City of Dundas is 0.315 acres.
This results in 3.177 single family lots per acre.
      (2)   For multiple family housing developments with a homeowners
association (HOA), the fee will be charged as follows: the total fee for all
parcels in the HOA, including common areas and private roads, will be divided
equally among all tax parcels with living units.
      (3)   The minimum annual fee shall be determined by the City Council, but
shall not be less per acre than that for a residential lot.
      (4)   For any residential parcel exceeding 20,000 square feet, in a
residentially zoned area (R1, R2, R3), the first 20,000 square feet will be
charged a fee at the residential rate, and the balance of the square footage
will be charged at the “Undeveloped Properties” rate.
   (D)    The REF for land uses not listed above shall be determined by the
city based on probable hydrologic response.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 3-24-2014)
§ 54.07 ESTABLISHING UNIT RATES.
   The City Council shall from time to time, by resolution, establish the unit
rate. The unit rate so established shall be on file with the City
Administrator/Clerk-Treasurer and shall be used to compute the charges for a
given parcel of land based on the following formula:
      Storm water charges   =   (UR) x (REF) x (SA)
      Where:
      UR   =   Unit rate established by the City Council
      REF   =   Per table 54.05(C) above
      SA   =   Surface area
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 3-24-2014)
§ 54.08 STANDARDIZED CHARGES.
   (A)   A standard surface area of 0.315 acres shall be used for single-family
residential parcels.
   (B)   A standard surface area of 0.315 acres for each unit shall be used in
computing storm water charges for the following dwellings: duplexes; twin
homes; townhouses; and detached townhouses. (For example, a parcel that
contains four townhouse units shall have a surface area computed as follows: 4
units x 0.315 acres/unit = 1.26 acres.)
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 3-24-2014)
§ 54.09 ADJUSTMENTS TO CHARGES.
   (A)   The City Council may provide for the adjustment of charges for:
      (1)   Parcels or groups of parcels based upon hydrologic response
substantially different from the REF being used for the parcel;
      (2)   Parcels which employ best management practices (BMPs) or other
storm water management practices, on-site that significantly reduce the
quantity or improve the quality of storm water runoff from the parcel. In no
case shall an adjusted fee per acre be less than that of a residential lot; and
      (3)   The following are some examples of best management practices
(BMPs):
         (a)   Storm water retention and detention ponds;
         (b)   Filter strips;
         (c)   Infiltration trenches or ponds;
         (d)   Underground storage or filters;
         (e)   Sand filters;
         (f)   Soak away pits;
         (g)   Green roof;
         (h)   Pervious pavers; and
         (i)   Dry wells.
   (B)   The adjustment shall be made only after receiving the recommendation
from the City Administrator, and shall not be made effective retroactively. If
the adjustment would have the effect of changing the REF for all or
substantially all parcels in a particular land use classification, the
adjustment shall be accomplished by amending the REF table listed in this storm
water utility policy. Adjusted fees will be reviewed every five years or sooner
if physical changes occur.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 3-24-2014)
§ 54.10 ADJUSTMENTS TO AREA.
   (A)   General. The total parcel area as shown in the County Assessor’s
records will be used to calculate the surface area for a given parcel; except
that, apparent errors or exception in the recorded values may be subject to
recalculation by the City. It is the responsibility of the owner or manager of
any parcel to provide the City with necessary surveys, and other information as
the City may reasonably request, to determine if a parcel, or portion of a
parcel, qualifies for an exception or area adjustment. Requests for exceptions
and/or area adjustments will be reviewed after receipt of all requested
information. Exceptions and/or adjustments must be approved by the City, and
shall become effective the beginning of the next billing cycle following
approval.
   (B)   Exceptions. The following land uses are exempt from the storm water
utility fees established herein:
      (1)   Public street right-of-way;
      (2)   Wetlands and public waters as defined by state law;
      (3)   Publicly-owned park lands, natural areas and recreational fields;
      (4)   Railroad right-of-way; and
      (5)   Cemeteries.
   (C)   Falsification of information. Willful failure to provide information
that the City may reasonably request related to the use, development and area
of a premises or falsification of the information, shall constitute a violation
of this chapter.
   (D)   Adjustments. City staff must approve all adjustment applications.
Adjustments may be applied for year round. Applications must be received by
September 15 to be applied to the following year’s billing. The City may
establish a fee for the review and processing of the adjustment application.
The maximum adjustments are cumulative and cannot exceed 75% and in no case
shall the adjusted fee be less than that of a single-family residential parcel.
   (E)   Wetland areas. Wetland areas shall be excluded from the total parcel
area when calculating the storm water utility fee. Wetland areas that are shown
on the County National Wetlands Inventory, or which have been otherwise
delineated, will be subtracted from the parcel area assessed for the storm
water utility fee.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 3-24-2014)
§ 54.11 LAND USE ADJUSTMENT.
   As land is developed and/or redeveloped, the fees will be recomputed based
on the revised land use.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 3-24-2014)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING RULES
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   PARADES AND PUBLIC CEREMONIES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   State highway traffic regulations adopted by reference
   
70.02   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
70.03   Stop intersections
   
70.04   Through streets and one-way streets
   
70.05   Turning restrictions
   
70.06   U-turns restricted
   
70.07   Excessive noise
   
70.08   Exhibition driving prohibited
   
70.09   Cruising prohibited
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 STATE HIGHWAY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Highway Traffic Regulations Act is hereby adopted by reference.
The regulatory provisions of M.S. Ch. 169, as it may be amended from time to
time, are hereby adopted as a traffic ordinance regulating the use of highways,
streets and alleys within the City and are hereby incorporated in and made a
part of this section as completely as if set out in full herein.
   (B)   The penalty for violation of the provisions of state statutes adopted
by reference in this section shall be identical with the penalty provided for
in the statutes for the same offense.
(Prior Code, § 700.01)
§ 70.02 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   The City Council, by resolution, may designate streets on which travel
by commercial vehicles in excess of 10,000 pounds axle weight is prohibited.
The Chief of Police shall cause appropriate signs to be erected on those
streets. No person shall operate a commercial vehicle on posted streets in
violation of the restrictions posted.
   (B)   The weight restrictions established in division (A) above shall not
apply to City or emergency vehicles, public school buses or to garbage and
refuse trucks making regular collections and are under contract with the City,
nor shall the weight restrictions in division (A) above apply if a commercial
vehicle must use the particular street in question for the purpose of local
pick-up or delivery.
(Prior Code, § 700.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The City may designate intersections as stop intersections and require all
vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to those intersections. The City
shall post signs at those designated intersections, giving notice of the
designation as a stop intersection. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail
to obey the markings or signs posted under this section.
(Prior Code, § 700.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 THROUGH STREETS AND ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The City Council, by resolution, may designate any street or portion of a
street as a through street or one-way street where necessary to preserve the
free flow of traffic or to prevent accidents. No trunk highway shall be so
designated unless the consent of the Commissioner of Transportation to the
designation is first secured. The City shall cause appropriate signs to be
posted at the entrance to designated streets. It shall be unlawful for any
person to fail to obey the markings or signs posted under this section.
(Prior Code, § 700.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TURNING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council, by resolution, may, whenever necessary to preserve a
free flow of traffic or to prevent accidents, designate any intersection as one
where turning of vehicles to the left or to the right, or both, is to be
restricted at all times or during specified hours. No intersection on a trunk
highway shall be so designated until the consent of the Commissioner of
Transportation to the designation is first obtained.
   (B)   The City shall mark by appropriate signs any intersection so
designated.
   (C)   No person shall turn a vehicle at any intersection contrary to the
direction on those signs.
(Prior Code, § 700.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 U-TURNS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall turn a vehicle so as to reverse its direction on any street
in the business district. A U-turn may be made at any intersection where
traffic is not regulated by a traffic-control signal.
(Prior Code, § 700.06)
§ 70.07 EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   (A)   As used in this section, LIGHT-MOTOR VEHICLES means any automobile,
van, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, motorscooter, go cart, minibike, trail
bike or truck with a gross vehicular weight of less than 10,000 pounds.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or cause to operate,
or use a light-motor vehicle in a manner as to cause, or allow to be caused,
excessive noise levels as a result of unreasonable rapid accelerations,
deceleration, revving of engine, squealing of tires, honking of horns or as a
result of the operation of audio devices, including, but not limited to,
radios, phonograph, tape players, compact disc players or any other sound-
amplifying device on or from the light-motor vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall operate, or cause to operate, or use a light-motor
vehicle in violation of the noise standards contained in Minn. Rules parts
7030.1050 and 7030.1060, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   No person shall operate, or cause to operate, or use a light-motor
vehicle that discharges its exhaust other than through a muffler or other
device that effectively prevents loud or explosive noises. No person shall
operate, or cause to operate, or use a light-motor vehicle whose exhaust system
has been modified, altered or repaired in any way, including the use of a
muffler cut-out or by-pass, that amplifies or otherwise increases noise above
that emitted by the light-motor vehicle as originally equipped.
   (E)   The following are exempted from the provisions of this section:
      (1)   Sound emitted from sirens of authorized emergency vehicles;
      (2)   Burglar alarms on light-motor vehicles of the electronic signaling
type which also transmit an audible signal to a receiver which can be carried
by the owner or operator of the vehicle; and
      (3)   Celebrations on Halloween and other legal holidays and celebrations
in connection with duly authorized parades.
(Prior Code, § 700.07) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 EXHIBITION DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall turn, accelerate, decelerate or otherwise operate a motor
vehicle within the City in a manner which causes unnecessary engine noise or
backfire, squealing tires, skidding, sliding, swaying, throwing of sand or
gravel, or in a manner simulating a race. Unreasonable squealing or screeching
sounds emitted by tires or the unreasonable throwing of sand or gravel by the
tires is prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 700.08) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 CRUISING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section, CRUISING means the operation of a motor
vehicle as defined in M.S. § 169.011, subd. 42, as it may be amended from time
to time, past a traffic control point as determined by a peace officer on a
street in an area designated “No Cruising Zone” by City Council resolution four
or more times between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 3:30 a.m.
   (B)   The passing of a traffic-control point under the conditions previously
stated shall constitute unnecessary repetitive driving and is a violation of
this section.
   (C)   The following use of vehicles shall constitute valid exceptions to
this prohibition: taxicabs for hire; buses; authorized emergency vehicles;
vehicles used by or under contract with any governmental jurisdiction; any
vehicle being used to conduct legitimate business activities.
   (D)   This section may be enforced only in an area that has been posted as a
“No Cruising Zone”. Signs shall be posted at the beginning and the end of any
public street, alley or highway, or portion thereof, which is a no cruising
zone.
(Prior Code, § 700.09)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this traffic code for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of §
70.06 of this chapter constitutes a petty misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 700.06)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING RULES
Section
   
71.01   No parking where posted
   
71.02   Limited parking
   
71.03   Other parking restrictions
   
71.04   Declaration of snow emergency; parking prohibited
   
71.05   Parking certain semi-trailers or tractors on public streets prohibited
   
71.06   Overnight parking
   
71.07   Repairing vehicles on City streets
   
71.08   Impoundment
   
71.09   Prima facie violations
   
71.10   Unattended vehicles
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 NO PARKING WHERE POSTED.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
City at any place where official signs or where appropriate devices, marks or
painting, either upon the surface of the street or the curb immediately
adjacent thereto, prohibit these acts.
(Prior Code, § 701.01) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 LIMITED PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
City where official signs are erected limiting the parking time thereon, for a
period of time in excess of the time as designated by the official signs.
(Prior Code, § 701.02) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 OTHER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, order the placing of signs, devices or
marks, or the painting of streets or curbs prohibiting or restricting the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles on any street where, in its opinion,
as evidenced by a finding in its official minutes, the stopping, standing or
parking is dangerous to those using the highway, or where the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles would unduly interfere with the free movement
of traffic. The signs, devices, marks or painting shall be official signs,
devices, marks or painting, and no person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle
in violation of the restrictions thereon or as indicated thereby.
(Prior Code, § 701.03) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 DECLARATION OF SNOW EMERGENCY; PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The Mayor, Police Chief or other designated official may declare a
snow emergency in the City. The emergency shall continue in effect for a period
of 24 hours or until the snow has been removed from the City’s streets or until
the snow emergency has been rescinded by action of the Mayor, Police Chief or
other designated officer.
   (B)   Notice of the declaration of a snow emergency shall be given by
posting notice within the City, and notifying the local news media; however,
the notification shall be a service aid only and not a duty on the part of the
officials.
   (C)   During a declared snow emergency, no motor vehicle shall be left
parked on any street or public way in the City.
   (D)   During a declared snow emergency, any police officer who finds a motor
vehicle in violation of this section shall attempt to contact the owner of the
motor vehicle and require the owner to immediately move the motor vehicle so as
not to be in violation of this section. If the owner does not immediately
remove the motor vehicle or the owner cannot be located, the police officer is
authorized to have the motor vehicle removed at the owner’s expense or
impounded pursuant to §
71.08 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 701.04) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 PARKING CERTAIN SEMI-TRAILERS OR TRACTORS ON PUBLIC STREETS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a semi-tractor or trailer, or any truck rated with a
gross vehicle weight in excess of 10,000 pounds, on any public street of the
City zoned for residential use.
(Prior Code, § 701.05) (Ord. 2003-09, passed - -) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 OVERNIGHT PARKING.
   (A)   General. The following vehicles shall not be allowed to park on City
streets overnight: repair; delivery; rented vehicles with commercial plates;
and refuse and recycling haulers or any other vehicle not registered as a
passenger vehicle.
   (B)   Time limit and winter parking.
      (1)   General. It shall be unlawful to park motor vehicles, equipment or
structures on a street or alley in the City for more than 24 consecutive hours,
without a special written permit from the Police Department. This prohibition
shall be applied 12 months of the year.
      (2)   Winter parking rules. It shall be unlawful to park motor vehicles,
equipment or structures on a street or alley in the City limits between the
hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:30 a.m. from October 31 through April 15 of the
following year, those dates inclusive. Daily permits for unusual circumstances
may be granted as determined by the City’s Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 701.06) (Ord. 2004-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 REPAIRING VEHICLES ON CITY STREETS.
   Vehicle repair and tune-ups shall not be permitted on any City street.
Damage to City streets because of the vehicle repairs shall be charged to the
person responsible for the damage to the City streets.
(Prior Code, § 701.07) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any police officer may order the removal or towing of a vehicle from a
street to a garage or other place of safety when the vehicle is left unattended
and constitutes an obstruction to traffic or hinders snow removal, street
improvements or maintenance operations.
   (B)   The vehicle shall not be released until the fees for towing and
storage are paid in addition to any fine imposed for violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 701.09)
§ 71.09 PRIMA FACIE VIOLATIONS.
   The presence of any motor vehicle on any street when standing or parked in
violation of this chapter is prima facie evidence that the registered owner of
the vehicle committed or authorized the commission of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 701.10)
§ 71.10 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall leave a standing or parked motor vehicle unsecured and
unattended, while the motor is running.
   (B)   No person shall leave or park a motor vehicle containing a child less
than ten years of age unattended, whether or not the engine of the motor
vehicle is running.
(Prior Code, § 701.11) (Ord. 2006- , passed - -) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this traffic code for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Violation of §
71.10(A) of this chapter shall constitute a petty misdemeanor.
      (2)   Violation of §
71.10(B) of this chapter constitutes a petty misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 701.11) (Ord. 2006- , passed - -)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Snowmobiles
   
72.01   Intent
   
72.02   Definitions
   
72.03   Application of traffic ordinances
   
72.04   Restrictions
   
72.05   Stopping and yielding
   
72.06   Persons under 18
   
72.07   Equipment
   
72.08   Unattended snowmobiles
   
72.09   Emergency operation permitted
   
72.10   Careless operation
Bicycles
   
72.25   Definition
   
72.26   Regulations
ATVs, Motorized Golf Carts and Other Recreational Vehicles
   
72.40   Definitions
   
72.41   Unlawful operation
   
72.42   Use on private property
   
72.43   Use on public streets
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Health and Safety; Nuisances, see
Ch. 92
   Parades and Public Ceremonies, see
Ch. 73
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Ch. 152
   Zoning, see
Ch. 154
SNOWMOBILES
§ 72.01 INTENT.
   (A)   It is the intent of this subchapter to supplement M.S. §§ 84.81
through 84.91, and M.S. Ch. 169, as these statutes may be amended from time to
time, and Minn. Rules parts 6100.5000 through 6100.5800, as these rules may be
amended from time to time, with respect to the operation of snowmobiles.
   (B)   These statutes and rules are incorporated herein by reference.
   (C)   This subchapter is not intended to allow what the state statutes and
rules prohibit, nor to prohibit what the state statutes and rules allow.
(Prior Code, § 702.01)
§ 72.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEADMAN THROTTLE or SAFETY THROTTLE. A device which, when pressure is
removed from the engine accelerator or throttle, causes the motor to be
disengaged from the driving mechanism.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder having the property in or title to
a snowmobile, or entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, partnership, corporation, the state and its
agencies and subdivision, and any body of persons, whether incorporated or not.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire strip of land traversed by a highway or street in
which the public owns the fee or an easement for roadway purposes.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway or street improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice,
steered by skis or runners.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare, roadway, alley or trail used for motor
vehicular traffic which is not an interstate, trunk, county-state aid or county
highway.
(Prior Code, § 702.02)
§ 72.03 APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of
Ch. 70 of this code of ordinances shall apply to the operation of snowmobiles
upon streets and highways, except for those relating to required equipment and
except those which, by their nature, have no application.
(Prior Code, § 702.03) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to enter, operate or stop a snowmobile
within the limits of the City:
      (1)   On the roadway of any street, which is not designated by the City
as a state snowmobile trail; except, it shall be lawful to operate a snowmobile
while leaving or returning to a state trail by the most direct route between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.;
      (2)   On a public sidewalk provided for pedestrian travel;
      (3)   On boulevards within any public right-of-way;
      (4)   On private property of another without specific permission of the
owner or person in control of the property;
      (5)   Upon any school grounds, except as permission is expressly obtained
from responsible school authorities;
      (6)   On public property, playgrounds and recreation areas, except areas
previously listed or authorized for the use by resolution of the City Council,
in which case the use shall be lawful, and snowmobiles may be driven in and out
of those areas by the shortest route; and
      (7)   On streets as permitted by this subchapter at a speed exceeding 15
mph.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile within the
limits of the City:
      (1)   So as to tow any person or thing in a public street or highway
except through use of a rigid tow bar attached to the rear of the snowmobile;
provided that, a disabled snowmobile may be towed to a private residence or a
place of business where snowmobiles are repaired without the use of a rigid tow
bar; and/or
      (2)   To intentionally drive, chase, run over or kill any animal.
   (C)   A snowmobile may make a direct crossing of a street or highway, except
an interstate highway or freeway; provided:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
      (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way;
      (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard;
      (4)   In crossing a divided street or highway, crossing is made only at
an intersection of a street or highway with another public street or highway;
and
      (5)   If the crossing is made between the hours of one-half hour after
sunset to one-half hour before sunrise, or in conditions of reduced visibility,
only if both front and rear lights are on.
(Prior Code, § 702.04) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 STOPPING AND YIELDING.
   (A)   No snowmobile shall enter any uncontrolled intersection without making
a complete stop.
   (B)   The operator shall then yield the right-of-way to any vehicles or
pedestrians at the intersection, or so close to the intersection as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
(Prior Code, § 702.05) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PERSONS UNDER 18.
   (A)   (1)   No person under 14 years of age shall operate on streets or make
a direct crossing of a City street as the operator of a snowmobile.
      (2)   A person 14 years of age or older, but less than 18 years of age,
may operate a snowmobile on streets as permitted under this subchapter and make
a direct crossing of those streets only if he or she has in his or her
immediate possession a valid snowmobile safety certificate issued pursuant to
M.S. § 84.872, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the owner of a snowmobile to permit the snowmobile
to be operated contrary to the provision of this section.
(Prior Code, § 702.06) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 EQUIPMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile any place within the
limits of the City unless it is equipped with the following:
   (A)   Standard mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the
noise of operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for operation. No
person shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass straight pipe or similar device on a
snowmobile motor;
   (B)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
snowmobile under any condition of operation;
   (C)   A safety or so called deadman throttle in operating condition; and
   (D)   When operated between the hours of one-half hour after sunset to one-
half hour before sunrise, or at times of reduced visibility, at least one clear
lamp attached to the front, with sufficient intensity to reveal persons and
vehicles at a distance of at least 100 feet ahead during the hours of darkness
under normal atmospheric conditions. The head lamp shall be so aimed that
glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of an oncoming snowmobile
operator. It shall also be equipped with at least one red light plainly visible
from a distance of 500 feet to the rear during hours of darkness under normal
atmospheric conditions.
(Prior Code, § 702.07) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 UNATTENDED SNOWMOBILES.
   Every person leaving a snowmobile on a public place shall remove the key and
take the same with him or her.
(Prior Code, § 702.08) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 EMERGENCY OPERATION PERMITTED.
   Notwithstanding any prohibitions in this subchapter, a snowmobile may be
operated on a public thoroughfare in an emergency during the period of time and
at locations where snow upon the roadway renders travel by automobile
impractical.
(Prior Code, § 702.09)
§ 72.10 CARELESS OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile within the City
limits, at any place, in a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to
endanger or be likely to endanger, or cause injury or damage to any person or
property.
(Prior Code, § 702.10) Penalty, see §
72.99
BICYCLES
§ 72.25 DEFINITION.
   BICYCLE means every device propelled by human power upon which any person
may ride, having two tandem wheels, either of which is over 14 inches in
diameter, and including any device generally recognized as a bicycle equipped
with two front or rear wheels.
(Prior Code, § 704.01)
§ 72.26 REGULATIONS.
   The use of bicycles, roller skates and skateboards within the City shall be
regulated as follows.
   (A)   Traffic laws apply. Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway or
upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles shall be granted all
of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the
driver of a motor vehicle, except as to those provisions as, by their nature,
can have no application.
   (B)   Manner and number riding.
      (1)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
      (2)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped, except on a baby seat attached to
the bicycle; provided that, the seat is equipped with a harness to hold the
child securely in the seat and that protection is provided against the child’s
feet hitting the spokes of the wheel or in a seat attached to the bicycle
operator.
   (C)   Hitching rides. No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller
skates, skate board, sled or toy vehicle shall attach the same or themselves to
any vehicle upon a street or roadway.
   (D)   Where to ride.
      (1)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a street or roadway shall
ride as near to the right side of the street or roadway as practicable,
exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the
same direction.
      (2)   Persons riding bicycles upon a street or roadway shall not ride
more than two abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles.
      (3)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle, on roller skates or a
skateboard upon any sidewalk in the City, such person shall yield the right-of-
way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal before overtaking and
passing the pedestrian.
   (E)   Lighting and brake equipment.
      (1)   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with or
its operator shall carry, a light or lamp on the front which shall emit a white
light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the front and with a red
reflector on the rear, of a type approved by the Department of Public Safety
which is visible from all directions from 600 feet to the rear when directly in
front of lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A light or lamp
emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be
used in addition to the red reflector.
      (2)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level and clean pavement.
(Prior Code, § 704.02) Penalty, see §
72.99
ATVS, MOTORIZED GOLF CARTS AND OTHER RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
§ 72.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE OR VEHICLE. A motorized vehicle with: (1) not less than
three, but not more than six low pressure or non-pneumatic tires; (2) a total
dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less; and (3) a total width from outside of tire
rim to outside of tire rim that is 65 inches or less. ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE
includes a class 1 all-terrain vehicle and class 2 all-terrain vehicle. ALL-
TERRAIN VEHICLE does not include a golf cart, mini-truck, dune buggy, or go-
cart or a vehicle designed and used specifically for lawn maintenance,
agriculture, logging, or mining purposes.
      (1)   CLASS 1 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. An all-terrain vehicle that has a
total width from outside of tire rim to outside of tire rim that is 50 inches
or less.
      (2)   CLASS 2 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. An all-terrain vehicle that has a
total width from outside of tire rim to outside of tire rim that is greater
than 50 inches but not more than 65 inches.
   OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE. A motorized, off-highway vehicle traveling on two
wheels and having a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and
handlebars for steering control, including a vehicle that is registered under
Chapter 168 for highway use if it is also used for off-highway operation on
trails or unimproved terrain.
   PUBLIC ROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire right-of-way of a public road,
including the traveled portions, banks, ditches, shoulders, and medians of a
roadway, that is not privately owned.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle and any vehicle propelled
or drawn by a self-propelled vehicle used for recreational purposes, including
but not limited to trail bike, off-highway motorcycle, all-terrain vehicle,
motorized go-carts, hovercraft, or motor vehicle licensed for highway operation
which is being used for off-road recreational purposes. RECREATIONAL MOTOR
VEHICLE does not include motor home, pick-up camper or the like, or motor
vehicles designed and used for commercial, industrial or agricultural purposes.
   UTILITY TASK VEHICLE. A side-by-side, four-wheel drive, off-road vehicle
that has four wheels, is propelled by an internal combustion engine with a
piston displacement capacity of 1,200 cubic centimeters or less, and has a
total dry weight of 1,800 but less than 2,600 pounds. Also known as a "side-by-
side" (among other terms), a UTV has side-by-side seating, in some cases
carries multiple passengers in a cab-like space, and often includes an open bed
located behind the driver and passengers (like a pickup truck).
(Ord. 2010-07, passed 8-30-2010; Ord. 2020-07, passed 7-27-2020)
§ 72.41 UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an all-terrain vehicle,
motorized golf cart or other recreational vehicle on any public property,
including but not limited to sidewalks, boulevards, trails, playgrounds, park
property, or public streets and roadways within the City, except where
permitted by this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-07, passed 8-30-2010; Ord. 2020-07, passed 7-27-2020) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.42 USE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall operate an all-terrain vehicle or dirt bike on private
property without the consent of the owner of the property.
   (B)   No person shall operate an all-terrain vehicle or dirt bike on private
property between the hours of one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour
before sunrise.
(Ord. 2010-07, passed 8-30-2010) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.43 USE ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   (A)   Motorized golf carts, utility task vehicles and all-terrain vehicles
may be operated on public streets and roadways by permit as provided herein.
      (1)   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form provided by
the City and shall contain all of the following information: (a) name and
address of the applicant; (b) model name, make, year and vehicle number; (c)
current driver's license; (d) proof of insurance in compliance with Minnesota
Statutes.
      (2)   The permit fee shall be as set forth in the City fee schedule
pursuant to City Code §
34.01, and as amended.
       (3)   Each permit shall be granted for a period of three years and may
be renewed thereafter. Upon approval, the City will issue a permit card which
must be carried when the vehicle is in use.
   (B)   All applicants must be at least 18 years of age, and must not have had
their Minnesota driver’s licenses suspended, revoked or canceled due to any
traffic violation within the past five years.
   (C)   A permit may be revoked at any time if there is evidence that the
permittee cannot safely operate the vehicle on designated streets and roadways.
   (D)   Motorized golf carts, utility task vehicles and all-terrain vehicles
may only be operated on City streets and roadways from sunrise to sunset, and
may not drive in excess of 15 mph. The permit shall be in the possession of the
operator at all times. They shall not be operated in inclement weather or when
visibility is impaired by weather, smoke, fog or other conditions, or at any
time when there is insufficient light to clearly see persons and vehicles on
the roadway at a distance of 500 feet, or on any state highway or recreational
trail.
   (E)   Motorized golf carts shall display the slow moving vehicle emblem
provided for in M.S. § 169.522, as it may be amended from time to time, when
operated on City streets and roadways.
   (F)   Every person operating a motorized golf cart, utility task vehicle or
all-terrain vehicle under permit, has all of the rights and duties applicable
to drivers of any other vehicle under the provisions of state statutes; except
that, the provision of M.S. Ch. 171 (relating to driver's licenses), as it may
be amended from time to time, are not applicable. Except for the requirements
of M.S. § 169.70 (regarding rearview mirrors), as it may be amended from time
to time, the provisions of state statutes relating to equipment on vehicles is
not applicable to motorized golf carts, utility task vehicles or all-terrain
vehicles operating, under permit, on streets and roadways in the City.
   (G)   Youthful operators. No person may operate a recreational or off-road
vehicle if they are prohibited by their age from operating such vehicle
pursuant to Minnesota Statutes. No person that has been issued a permit under
this section shall knowingly allow an underage person to operate such vehicle
and this shall be grounds for revoking the permit.
(Ord. 2010-07, passed 8-30-2010; Ord. 2020-07, passed 7-27-2020) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this traffic code for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
72.26 of this chapter shall be guilty of a petty offense and subject to a fine
not to exceed $25.
(Prior Code, § 704.03)
   (C)   Any person violating §§
72.40 through
72.43 of this chapter shall be guilty of a petty offense and may be fined in an
amount not to exceed $200.
(Ord. 2010-07, passed 8-30-2010)
CHAPTER 73: PARADES AND PUBLIC CEREMONIES
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Permit required
   
73.03   Application for permit
   
73.04   Standards for issuance of permit
   
73.05   Notice of rejection of permit application
   
73.06   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
73.07   Alternative permit
   
73.08   Notice to City and other officials when permit issued
   
73.09   Contents of permit
   
73.10   Duties of permittee
   
73.11   Public conduct during parades
   
73.12   Revocation of permit
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march or procession of any kind, or any similar display
in or on any street, sidewalk, park or other public place in the City, which
has the effect of restricting reasonable use of said public places by other
citizens who are not participants.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this chapter.
   PARKING LOT. Any paved or unpaved area used by a place of business or
shopping center for the parking of vehicles of its customers, but shall not
include those operated for hire.
(Prior Code, § 700.20)
§ 73.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage or participate in, aid, form or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the City Clerk-
Treasurer or other authorized City official.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities; provided that, the conduct is under the immediate
direction and supervision of the proper school authorities; or
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Prior Code, § 700.21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Generally. A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an
application with the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than 72 hours, but not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade. Failure to file an application 72 hours in
advance will not result in automatic denial of the permit; provided that, the
applicant shows reasonable grounds why the application could not be filed 72
hours in advance.
   (C)   Required information. The application for a parade permit shall set
forth the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should be issued.
   (D)   Fee. There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a
parade permit a fee in an amount as established in §
34.01 of this code of ordinances, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 700.22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a permit when, from a consideration of
the application and from other information obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the City to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
City;
   (C)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (D)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire; and
   (E)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
(Prior Code, § 700.23) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.05 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   If the City Clerk-Treasurer disapproves the application, he or she shall
mail to the applicant within the three regular business days after the date on
which the application was filed a notice of his or her action stating the
reasons for his or her denial of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 700.24)
§ 73.06 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
(Prior Code, § 700.25)
§ 73.07 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The City Clerk-Treasurer or other authorized City official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit
under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 700.26)
§ 73.08 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the Police Chief.
(Prior Code, § 700.27)
§ 73.09 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park or other public place to be
traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 700.28) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.10 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his or
her person during the conduct of the parade.
(Prior Code, § 700.29) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.11 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or
interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle, except a police car
or other emergency vehicle, shall drive between the vehicles or persons
comprising a parade when the vehicles or persons are in motion and are
conspicuously designated as a parade.
   (C)   Parking on parade route. The Police Chief or other authorized City
official shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or other public thoroughfare or
part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade. Signs shall be
posted to the effect, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave
unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person shall be liable for
parking on a street or other public thoroughfare unless signs have been posted
in accordance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 700.30) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.12 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The City shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
(Prior Code, § 700.31)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED PROPERTY
      
91.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
92.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
94.    USE OF DUNDAS CITY PARK LANDS
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Disposition of abandoned property
Abandoned Vehicles
   
90.15   Findings and purpose
   
90.16   Definitions
   
90.17   Abandonment or storage of vehicles
   
90.18   Authority to impound vehicles
   
90.19   Sale; waiting periods
   
90.20   Notice of taking and sale
   
90.21   Right to reclaim
   
90.22   Operator’s deficiency claim; consent to sale
   
90.23   Disposition by impound lot
   
90.24   Disposal authority
   
90.25   Removal from private property
   
90.26   Recovery of costs
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DISPOSITION OF ABANDONED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Procedure. Except for abandoned and junked vehicles, all property
lawfully coming into possession of the City shall be disposed of as provided in
this section, which is adopted pursuant to M.S. § 471.195, as it may be amended
from time to time. Abandoned and junked vehicles shall be disposed of according
to the procedures of §§
90.15 through
90.26 of this chapter.
   (B)   Storage. The department of the City acquiring possession of the
property shall arrange for its storage. If City facilities are unavailable or
inadequate, the department may arrange for storage at a privately-owned
facility.
   (C)   Claim by owner. The owner may claim the property by exhibiting
satisfactory proof of ownership and paying the City any storage or maintenance
costs incurred by it. A receipt for the property shall be obtained upon release
to the owner.
   (D)   Sale. If the property remains unclaimed in the possession of the City
for 60 days, the property shall be sold to the highest bidder at a public
auction conducted by the City Clerk-Treasurer or his or her designee after two
weeks’ published notice setting forth the time and place of the sale and the
property to be sold.
   (E)   Disposition of proceeds. The proceeds of the sale shall be placed in
the General Fund of the City. If the former owner makes application and
furnishes satisfactory proof of ownership within six months of the sale, the
former owner shall be paid the proceeds of the sale of the property less the
costs of storage and the proportionate part of the cost of published notice and
other costs of the sale.
   (F)   Disposition of property with no value. Any abandoned property which
has no value, or which receives no bid at a public auction conducted under
division (D) above, may be disposed of in any legal manner by the City.
(Prior Code, § 900.01)
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 90.15 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   M.S. Ch. 168B and Minn. Rules Ch. 7035, as they may be amended from time to
time, are hereby adopted by reference. This subchapter is adopted under the
authority of M.S. § 168B.09, subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to time.
If any of these provisions are less stringent than the provisions of M.S. Ch.
168B or Minn. Rules Ch. 7035, as they may be amended from time to time, the
statute or rule shall take precedence.
(Prior Code, § 900.15)
§ 90.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A motor vehicle, as defined in M.S. § 169.011, as it may be amended
from time to time, that:
         (a)   Has remained illegally:
            1.   For a period of more than 48 hours on any property owned or
controlled by a unit of government, or more than four hours on that property
when it is properly posted; or
            2.   On private property for a period of time, as determined under
§
90.18(B) of this chapter, without the consent of the person in control of the
property.
         (b)   Lacks vital component parts or is in an inoperable condition
that it has no substantial potential for further use consistent with its usual
functions, unless it is kept in an enclosed garage or storage building.
      (2)   A classic car or pioneer car, as defined in M.S. § 168.10, as it
may be amended from time to time, is not considered an ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (3)   Vehicles on the premises of junk yards and automobile graveyards
that are defined, maintained, and licensed in accordance with M.S. § 161.242,
as it may be amended from time to time, or that are licensed and maintained in
accordance with local laws and zoning regulations, are not considered ABANDONED
VEHICLES.
      (4)   A vehicle being held for storage by agreement or being held under
police authority or pursuant to a writ or court order is not considered
abandoned, nor may it be processed as abandoned while the police hold, writ or
court order is in effect.
   DEPARTMENT. The Minnesota Department of Public Safety.
   IMPOUND. To take and hold a vehicle in legal custody. There are two types of
impounds: public and non-public.
   IMPOUND LOT OPERATOR or OPERATOR.
      (1)   A person who engages in the business of impounding or storing,
unauthorized or abandoned vehicles.
      (2)   OPERATOR includes an operator of a public or non-public impound
lot, regardless of whether tow truck service is provided.
   JUNK VEHICLE. A vehicle that:
      (1)   Is three years old or older;
      (2)   Is extensively damaged, with the damage including things as broken
or missing wheels, motor, drive train or transmission;
      (3)   Is apparently inoperable;
      (4)   Does not have a valid, current registration plate; and
      (5)   Has an approximate fair market value equal only to the approximate
value of the scrap in it.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. Has the meaning given “motor vehicle” in M.S. §
169.01, as it may be amended from time to time.
   MOTOR VEHICLE WASTE. Solid waste and liquid wastes derived in the operation
of or in the recycling of a motor vehicle, including such things as tires and
used motor oil, but excluding scrap metal.
   MPCA or AGENCY. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NON-PUBLIC IMPOUND LOT. An impound lot that is not a public impound lot.
   PUBLIC IMPOUND LOT. An impound lot owned by or contracting with a unit of
government under §
90.24 of this chapter.
   UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE. A vehicle that is subject to removal and impoundment
pursuant to §
90.18(B) of this chapter or M.S. § 168B.035, as it may be amended from time to
time, but is not a junk vehicle or an abandoned vehicle.
   UNIT OF GOVERNMENT. Includes a state department or agency, a special purpose
district and a county, statutory or home rule charter City or town.
   VITAL COMPONENT PARTS. Those parts of a motor vehicle that are essential to
the mechanical functioning of the vehicle, including such things as the motor,
drive train and wheels.
(Prior Code, § 900.16)
§ 90.17 ABANDONMENT OR STORAGE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any person who abandons a motor vehicle on any public or private
property, without the consent of the person in control of the property, is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store, keep or maintain, or
permit another to store, keep or maintain an abandoned, junk or unauthorized
vehicle on public or private property, unless it is kept within an enclosed
garage or permitted storage building.
(Prior Code, § 900.17) (Ord. 2003-13, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.18 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   (A)   Abandoned or junk vehicles. The City Clerk-Treasurer or his or her
designee or any peace officer employed or whose services are contracted for by
the City may take into custody and impound any abandoned or junk vehicle.
   (B)   Unauthorized vehicles. The City Clerk-Treasurer, or his or her
designee or any peace officer employed or whose services are contracted for by
the City, may take into custody and impound any unauthorized vehicle under M.S.
§ 168B.035, as it may be amended from time to time. A vehicle may also be
impounded after it has been left unattended in one of the following public or
private locations for the indicated period of time:
      (1)   In a public location not governed by M.S. § 168B.035, as it may be
amended from time to time:
         (a)   On a highway and properly tagged by a peace officer: four hours;
         (b)   Located so as to constitute an accident or traffic hazard to the
traveling public, as determined by a peace officer: immediately; or
         (c)   Is a parking facility or other public property owned or
controlled by a unit of government, properly posted: four hours.
      (2)   On private property:
         (a)   That is single-family or duplex residential property:
immediately;
         (b)   That is private, non-residential property, properly posted:
immediately;
         (c)   That is private, non-residential property, not posted: 24 hours;
or
         (d)   That is any residential property, properly posted: immediately.
(Prior Code, § 900.18)
§ 90.19 SALE; WAITING PERIODS.
   (A)   Sale after 15 days. An impounded vehicle is eligible for disposal or
sale under §
90.23 of this chapter, 15 days after notice to the owner, if the vehicle is
determined to be:
      (1)   A junk vehicle; except that, it may have a valid, current
registration plate and still be eligible for disposal or sale under this
division (A)(1); or
      (2)   An abandoned vehicle.
   (B)   Sale after 45 days. An impounded vehicle is eligible for disposal or
sale under §
90.23 of this chapter, 45 days after notice to the owner, if the vehicle is
determined to be an unauthorized vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 900.19)
§ 90.20 NOTICE OF TAKING AND SALE.
   (A)   Contents; notice given within five days. When an impounded vehicle is
taken into custody, the City or impound lot operator taking it into custody
shall give notice of the taking within five days. The notice shall:
      (1)   Set forth the date and place of the taking; the year, make, model
and serial number of the impounded motor vehicle if the information can be
reasonably obtained; and the place where the vehicle is being held;
      (2)   Inform the owner and any identifiable lienholders of their right to
reclaim the vehicle under §
90.21 of this chapter;
      (3)   State that failure of the owner or lienholders to exercise their
right to reclaim the vehicle and contents within the appropriate time allowed
under §
90.19 of this chapter shall be deemed a waiver by them of all right, title and
interest in the vehicle and contents and a consent to the transfer of title to
and disposal or sale of the vehicle and contents pursuant to §
90.23 of this chapter; and
      (4)   Inform the owner and any lienholders of the towing charges then
accrued against the vehicle and shall provide a schedule of storage charges to
be made by the towing contractor, and any fine to be imposed by the City as a
condition for reclaiming the vehicle.
   (B)   Notice by mail or publication.
      (1)   The notice shall be sent by certified mail to the registered owner,
if any, of an impounded vehicle and to all readily identifiable lienholders of
record. The Department makes this information available to impound lot
operators for notification purposes. If it is impossible to determine with
reasonable certainty the identity and address of the registered owner and all
lienholders, the notice shall be published once in a newspaper of general
circulation in the area where the motor vehicle was towed from or abandoned.
      (2)   Published notices may be grouped together for convenience and
economy.
   (C)   Unauthorized vehicles; notice. If an unauthorized vehicle remains
unclaimed after 30 days from the date the notice was sent under division (B)
above, a second notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the registered owner, if any, of the unauthorized vehicle and to
all readily identifiable lienholders of record.
(Prior Code, § 900.20) (Ord. 2003-13, passed - -)
§ 90.21 RIGHT TO RECLAIM.
   (A)   Payment of charges. The owner or any lienholder of an impounded
vehicle shall have a right to reclaim the vehicle from the City or impound lot
operator taking it into custody upon payment of all towing and storage charges
resulting from taking the vehicle into custody within 15 or 45 days, as
applicable under §
90.19 of this chapter, after the date of the notice required by §
90.20 of this chapter.
   (B)   Lienholders. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impair any
lien of a garagekeeper under the laws of the state, or the right of a
lienholder to foreclose. For the purposes of this section, GARAGEKEEPER is an
operator of a parking place or establishment, an operator of a motor vehicle
storage facility, or an operator of an establishment for the servicing, repair
or maintenance of motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 900.21)
§ 90.22 OPERATOR’S DEFICIENCY CLAIM; CONSENT TO SALE.
   (A)   Deficiency claim. The non-public impound lot operator has a deficiency
claim against the registered owner of the vehicle for the reasonable costs of
services provided in the towing, storage and inspection of the vehicle minus
the proceeds of the sale or auction. The claim for storage costs may not exceed
the costs of:
      (1)   Twenty-five days storage for a vehicle described in §
90.19(A) of this chapter; and
      (2)   Fifty-five days storage for a vehicle described in §
90.19(B) of this chapter.
   (B)   Implied consent to sale. A registered owner who fails to claim the
impounded vehicle within the applicable time period allowed under §
90.19 of this chapter is deemed to waive any right to reclaim the vehicle and
consents to the disposal or sale of the vehicle and its contents and transfer
of title.
(Prior Code, § 900.22)
§ 90.23 DISPOSITION BY IMPOUND LOT.
   (A)   Auction or sale.
      (1)   If an abandoned or unauthorized vehicle and contents taken into
custody by the City or any impound lot, public or non-public, is not reclaimed
under §
90.21 of this chapter, it may be disposed of or sold at auction or sale when
eligible pursuant to §§
90.20 and
90.21 of this chapter.
      (2)   The purchaser shall be given a receipt in a form prescribed by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles which shall be sufficient title to dispose of the
vehicle. The receipt shall also entitle the purchaser to register the vehicle
and receive a certificate of title, free and clear of all liens and claims of
ownership. Before a vehicle is issued a new certificate of title, it must
receive a motor vehicle safety check.
   (B)   Unsold vehicles. Abandoned or junk vehicles not sold by the City or
public impound lots pursuant to division (A) above shall be disposed of in
accordance with §
90.24 of this chapter.
   (C)   Sale proceeds; public entities. From the proceeds of a sale under this
section by the City or public impound lot of an abandoned or unauthorized motor
vehicle, the City shall reimburse itself for the cost of towing, preserving and
storing the vehicle and all administrative, notice and publication costs
incurred in handling the vehicle pursuant to this subchapter. Any remainder
from the proceeds of a sale shall be held for the owner of the vehicle or
entitled lienholder for 90 days and then shall be deposited in the treasury of
the City.
   (D)   Sale proceeds; non-public impound lots. The operator of a non-public
impound lot may retain any proceeds derived from a sale conducted under the
authority of division (A) above. The operator may retain all proceeds from sale
of any personal belongings and contents in the vehicle that were not claimed by
the owner or the owner’s agent before the sale; except that, any suspected
contraband or other items that likely would be subject to forfeiture in a
criminal trial must be turned over to the appropriate law enforcement agency.
(Prior Code, § 900.23)
§ 90.24 DISPOSAL AUTHORITY.
   The City may contract with others or may utilize its own equipment and
personnel for the inventory of impounded motor vehicles and abandoned scrap
metal and may utilize its own equipment and personnel for the collection,
storage and transportation of these vehicles and abandoned scrap metal. The
City may utilize its own equipment and personnel only for the collection and
storage of not more than five abandoned or unauthorized vehicles without
advertising for or receiving bids in any 120-day period.
(Prior Code, § 900.24)
§ 90.25 REMOVAL FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The City may contract with others or may utilize its own equipment and
personnel for the inventory of impounded motor vehicles and abandoned scrap
metal and may utilize its own equipment and personnel for the collection,
storage and transportation of these vehicles and abandoned scrap metal.
   (B)   The City may utilize its own equipment and personnel only for the
collection and storage of not more than five abandoned or unauthorized vehicles
without advertising for or receiving bids in any 120-day period.
(Prior Code, § 900.25) (Ord. 2003-13, passed - -)
§ 90.26 RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of a premises upon which unauthorized,
abandoned or junk automobiles have been removed, shall be personally liable for
the cost of removal to the City, including legal fees and administrative costs.
As soon as the work has been completed and the cost determined, the City
Administrator or other City official shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail
it to the owner. The amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office
of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Assessment. If the storage or maintenance of abandoned, unauthorized
or junk motor vehicles occurs on private property, or outside the travel
portion of public streets, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall, on or before
September 1 following removal of the vehicles, list the total unpaid costs and
charges, including attorney’s fees and administrative charges, to be assessed
under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to time, against each
separate lot or parcel to which the charges are attributable. The City Council
may then impose the charges against the property under that statute and other
pertinent statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collection along
with current taxes the following year, or in annual installments, not exceeding
three, or as the City Council may determine in each case.
(Prior Code, § 900.26) (Ord. 2003-13, passed - -)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Dogs and cats
   
91.03   Non-domestic animals
   
91.04   Farm animals
   
91.05   Impounding
   
91.06   Kennels
   
91.07   Nuisances
   
91.08   Seizure of animals
   
91.09   Animals presenting a danger to health and safety of City
   
91.10   Diseased animals
   
91.11   Dangerous animals; requirements
   
91.12   Basic care
   
91.13   Animals in heat
   
91.14   Enforcing officer
   
91.15   Pound
   
91.16   Interference with officers
   
91.17   Leg hold traps prohibited within City limits
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl and
poultry) or other member commonly accepted as a part of the animal kingdom.
ANIMALS shall be classified as follows.
      (1)   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated
household pets. Unless otherwise defined, domestic animals shall include dogs,
cats, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated rabbits, fish,
non-poisonous, non-venomous and non-constricting reptiles or amphibians and
other similar animals.
      (2)   FARM ANIMALS.
         (a)   Those animals commonly associated with a farm or performing work
in an agricultural setting.
         (b)   Unless otherwise defined, FARM ANIMALS shall include members of
the equestrian family (horses, mules), bovine family (cows, bulls), sheep,
poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (ducks, geese), swine (including Vietnamese
pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees and other animals associated with a farm, ranch
or stable.
      (3)   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly considered to be
naturally wild, and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are
commonly considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety and
welfare of people. Unless otherwise defined, NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS shall
include:
         (a)   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats;
         (b)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs;
         (c)   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog,
unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet;
         (d)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not de-scented), raccoon or squirrel, but excluding those members
otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets;
         (e)   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators; and
         (f)   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above, but which
can be reasonably defined by the terms of this section, including, but not
limited to, bears, deer, monkeys and game fish.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the custody and
control of the owner or other person, either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise
restrained or confined.
   CAT. Both the male and female of the feline species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
   DOG. Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets, and other domesticated animals of a dog kind.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping or harboring an animal.
   RELEASE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Animal Control Officer or other
person in charge of the pound for the release of any animal that has been taken
to the pound. A RELEASE PERMIT may be obtained upon payment of a fee to the
City Clerk-Treasurer or designee in accordance with the regular license
requirement if the animal is unlicensed, payment of a release fee and any
maintenance costs incurred in capturing and impounding the animal. The release
fee shall be as established in §
34.01 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 901.01)
§ 91.02 DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Running at large prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the dog or cat
of any person who owns, harbors or keeps a dog or cat, to run at large. A
person, who owns, harbors or keeps a dog or cat which runs at large shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. Dogs or cats on a leash and accompanied by a
responsible person or accompanied by and under the control and direction of a
responsible person, so as to be effectively restrained by command as by leash,
shall be permitted in streets or on public land unless the City has posted an
area with signs reading “Dogs or Cats Prohibited”.
   (B)   I.D. required. Any person owning, harboring or keeping a dog in the
City which is more than 90 days old shall have the dog or cat vaccinated for
rabies and have proof of the same firmly attached to a collar about the dogs
neck. Also, the dog must have some form of identifying its owner either
attached to the collar or etched upon a collar plate.
   (C)   Cats. Cats shall be included as controlled by this section insofar as
running-at-large, pickup, impounding, boarding, I.D. requirements and proof of
anti-rabies vaccine is concerned. All other provisions of this section shall
also apply to cats unless otherwise provided.
   (D)   Vaccination.
      (1)   All dogs and cats kept harbored, maintained or transported within
the City shall be vaccinated at least once every three years by a licensed
veterinarian for:
         (a)   Rabies, with a live modified vaccine; and
         (b)   Distemper.
      (2)   A certificate of vaccination must be kept on which is stated the
date of vaccination, owner’s name and address, the animal’s name (if
applicable), sex, description and weight, the type of vaccine, and the
veterinarian’s signature. Upon demand made by the City Clerk-Treasurer, the
Animal Control Officer or a police officer, the owner shall present for
examination the required certificate(s) of vaccination for the animal(s). In
cases where certificates are not presented, the owner or keeper of the animal
(s) shall have seven days in which to present the certificate(s) to the City
Clerk-Treasurer or officer. Failure to do so shall be deemed a violation of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 901.02) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   Except as provided in M.S. § 346.155, as it may be amended from time to
time, it shall be illegal for any person to own, possess, harbor or offer for
sale any non-domestic animal within the City. Any owner of a non-domestic
animal at the time of adoption of this code shall have 30 days in which to
remove the animal from the City after which time the City may impound the
animal as provided for in this section. An exception shall be made to this
prohibition for animals specifically trained for and actually providing
assistance to the handicapped or disabled, and for those animals brought into
the City as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research
laboratory or a licensed show or exhibition.
(Prior Code, § 901.03) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 FARM ANIMALS.
   (A)   Farm animals shall be kept in the City only as permitted by Ch. 154 of
this code of ordinances; provided that, no animal shelter shall be within 300
feet of any adjoining piece of property. An exception shall be made to this
section for those animals brought into the City as part of an operating zoo,
veterinarian clinic, scientific research laboratory or a licensed show or
exhibition.
   (B)   If Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances permits farm animals to be kept
in a residential district, the animals shall only be permitted by conditional
use permit, except as may be permitted in § 154.075.
(Prior Code, § 901.04) (Ord. 2019-06, passed 8-12-2019, § 1)
§ 91.05 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Running at large. Any unlicensed animal running at large is hereby
declared a public nuisance. Any Animal Control Officer or police officer may
impound any dog or other animal found unlicensed or any animal found running at
large and shall give notice of the impounding to the owner of the dog or other
animal, if known. In case the owner is unknown, the officer shall post notice
at the City office that if the dog or other animal is not claimed within the
time specified in division (C) below, it will be sold or otherwise disposed of.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be unlawful to kill,
destroy or otherwise cause injury to any animal, including dogs and cats
running at large.
   (B)   Biting animals. Any animal that has not been inoculated by a live
modified rabies vaccine and which has bitten any person, wherein the skin has
been punctured or the services of a doctor are required, shall be confined in
the City pound for a period of not less than ten days, at the expense of the
owner. The animal may be released at the end of the time if healthy and free
from symptoms of rabies and by the payment of all costs by the owner. However,
if the owner of the animal shall elect immediately upon receipt of notice of
need for the confinement by the officer to voluntarily and immediately confine
the animal for the required period of time in a veterinary hospital of the
owner’s choosing, not outside of the county in which the City is located, and
provide immediate proof of confinement in the manner as may be required, the
owner may do so. If, however, the animal has been inoculated with a live
modified rabies vaccine and the owner has proof of the vaccination by a
certificate from a licensed veterinarian, the owner may confine the dog or
other animal to the owner’s property.
   (C)   Reclaiming. All animals conveyed to the pound shall be kept, with
humane treatment and sufficient food and water for their comfort, at least five
regular business days, unless the animal is a dangerous animal, as defined
under §
91.11 of this chapter, in which case it shall be kept for seven regular
business days or the times specified in §
91.11 of this chapter, and except if the animal is a cruelly-treated animal in
which case it shall be kept for ten regular business days, unless sooner
reclaimed by their owners or keepers as provided by this section. In case the
owner or keeper shall desire to reclaim the animal from the pound, the
following shall be required, unless otherwise provided for in this code or
established from time to time by resolution of the City Council:
      (1)   Payment of the release fee and receipt of a release permit as
established by §
34.01 of this code of ordinances;
      (2)   Payment of maintenance costs, as provided by the pound, per day or
any part of day while animal is in the pound; and
      (3)   If a dog is unlicensed, payment of a regular license fee as
established by §
34.01 of this code of ordinances and valid certificate of vaccination for
rabies and distemper shots is required.
   (D)   Unclaimed animals. At the expiration of the times established in
division (C) above, if the animal has not been reclaimed in accordance with the
provisions of this section, the officer appointed to enforce this section may
dispose of the unclaimed animal in a manner permitted by law. Any money
collected under this section shall be payable to the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 901.05) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 KENNELS.
   (A)   Definition of “kennel”. The keeping of three or more dogs on the same
premises, whether owned by the same person or not and for whatever purpose
kept, shall constitute a KENNEL; except that, a fresh litter of pups may be
kept for a period of three months before that keeping shall be deemed to be a
KENNEL. Licensed veterinary clinics, located in non-residential areas are
excepted from the definition of KENNEL.
   (B)   Kennel as a nuisance. Because the keeping of three or more dogs on the
same premises is subject to great abuse, causing discomfort to persons in the
area by way of smell, noise, hazard and general aesthetic depreciation, the
keeping of three or more dogs on the premises is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and no person shall keep or maintain a kennel within the City.
(Prior Code, § 901.06) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 NUISANCES.
   (A)   Habitual barking.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor a dog which
habitually barks or cries.
      (2)   HABITUAL BARKING shall be defined as barking for repeated intervals
of at least five minutes with less than one minute of interruption.
      (3)   The barking must also be audible off of the owner’s or caretaker’s
premises.
   (B)   Damage to property. It shall be unlawful for any person’s dog or other
animal to damage any lawn, garden or other property, whether or not the owner
has knowledge of the damage.
   (C)   Cleaning up litter. The owner of any animal or person having the
custody or control of any animal shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces
of the animal and disposing of the feces in a sanitary manner whether on his,
her or their own property, on the property of others or on public property.
   (D)   Other. Any animals kept contrary to this section are subject to
impoundment as provided in §
91.05 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 901.07) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 SEIZURE OF ANIMALS.
   Any police officer or Animal Control Officer may enter upon private property
and seize any animal; provided that, the following exist:
   (A)   There is an identified complainant other than the police officer or
Animal Control Officer making a contemporaneous complaint about the animal;
   (B)   The officer reasonably believes that the animal meets either the
barking dog criteria set out in §
91.07(A) of this chapter; the criteria for cruelty set out herein; or the
criteria for an at large animal set out in §
91.01 of this chapter;
   (C)   The officer can demonstrate that there has been at least one previous
complaint of a barking dog; inhumane treatment of the animal; or that the
animal was at large at this address on a prior date;
   (D)   The officer has made a reasonable attempt to contact the owner of the
dog and the property to be entered and those attempts have either failed or
have been ignored;
   (E)   The Animal Control Officer or police officer shall not enter the
property of the owner of an animal described in this section unless the officer
has obtained the permission of he owner, or has obtained a warrant issued by a
court of competent jurisdiction to search for and seize the animal. If the
officer has permission of the owner, a property manager, landlord, innkeeper or
other authorized person to enter the property, or has obtained a pass key from
such authorized person, this shall not be considered unauthorized entry and a
warrant need not be obtained; and
   (F)   Written notice of the seizure is left in a conspicuous place if
personal contact with the owner of the dog is not possible.
(Prior Code, § 901.08)
§ 91.09 ANIMALS PRESENTING A DANGER TO HEALTH AND SAFETY OF CITY.
   If, in the reasonable belief of any person or the Animal Control Officer or
police officer, an animal presents an immediate danger to the health and safety
of any person, or the animal is threatening imminent harm to any person, or the
animal is in the process of attacking any person, the person or officer may
destroy the animal in a proper and humane manner. Otherwise, the person or
officer may apprehend the animal and deliver it to the pound for confinement
under §
91.05 of this chapter. If the animal is destroyed, the owner or keeper of the
animal destroyed shall be liable to the City for the cost of maintaining and
disposing of the animal, plus the costs of any veterinarian examination. If the
animal is found not to be a danger to the health and safety of the City, it may
be released to the owner or keeper in accordance with §
91.05(C) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 901.09)
§ 91.10 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Running at large. No person shall keep or allow to be kept on his or
her premises, or on premises occupied by him or her, nor permit to run at large
in the City, any animal which is diseased so as to be a danger to the health
and safety of the City, even though the animal be properly licensed under this
section.
   (B)   Confinement.
      (1)   Any animal reasonably suspected of being diseased and presenting a
threat to the health and safety of the public may be apprehended and confined
in the pound by any person, the Animal Control Officer or a police officer. The
officer shall have a qualified veterinarian examine the animal. If the animal
is found to be diseased in a manner so as to be a danger to the health and
safety of the City, the officer shall cause the animal to be painlessly killed
and shall properly dispose of the remains.
      (2)   The owner or keeper of the animal killed under this section shall
be liable to the City for the cost of maintaining and disposing of the animal,
plus the costs of any veterinarian examinations.
   (C)   Release. If the animal, upon examination, is not found to be diseased,
the animal shall be released to the owner or keeper free of charge.
(Prior Code, § 901.10) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 DANGEROUS ANIMALS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Attack by an animal. It shall be unlawful for any person’s animal
to inflict or attempt to inflict bodily injury to any person or other animal
whether or not the owner is present. This section shall not apply to an attack
by a dog under the control of an on-duty law enforcement officer or to an
attack upon an uninvited intruder who has entered the owner’s home with
criminal intent.
      (2)   Destruction of dangerous animal. The Animal Control Officer shall
have the authority to order the destruction of dangerous animals in accordance
with the terms established by this chapter.
      (3)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (A), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal, including dangerous dogs as defined by
M.S. § 347.50, as amended from time to time, which has:
            1.   Caused bodily injury or disfigurement to any person on public
or private property;
            2.   Engaged in any attack on any person under circumstances which
would indicate danger to personal safety;
            3.   Exhibited unusually aggressive behavior, such as an attack on
another animal;
            4.   Bitten one or more persons on two or more occasions; or
            5.   Been found to be potentially dangerous and/or the owner has
personal knowledge of the same, the animal aggressively bites, attacks or
endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
         POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal, including potentially
dangerous dogs as defined by M.S. § 347.50, as amended from time to time, which
has:
            1.   Bitten a human or a domestic animal on public or private
property;
            2.   When unprovoked, chased or approached a person upon the
streets, sidewalks or any public property in an apparent attitude of attack; or
            3.   Has engaged in unprovoked attacks causing injury or otherwise
threatening the safety of humans or domestic animals.
         PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a securely locked
pen or structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and to provide
protection for the animal from the elements. A PROPER ENCLOSURE does not
include a porch, patio or any part of a house, garage or other structure that
would allow the animal to exit of its own volition, or any house or structure
in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the only
barriers which prevent the animal from exiting. The enclosure shall not allow
the egress of the animal in any manner without human assistance. A pen or
kennel shall meet the following minimum specifications:
            1.   Have a minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet;
            2.   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support posts shall be one and one-fourth-inch or larger steel pipe
buried in the ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided,
the sidewalls shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground;
            3.   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and shall also have no openings in the wire greater than two inches; and
            4.   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire
greater than two inches. The gate shall be equipped with a device capable of
being locked and shall be locked at all times when the animal is in the pen or
kennel.
         UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the animal is not purposely
excited, stimulated, agitated or disturbed.
      (4)   Designation as potentially dangerous animal. The Animal Control
Officer shall designate any animal as a potentially dangerous animal upon
receiving evidence that the potentially dangerous animal has, when unprovoked,
then bitten, attacked or threatened the safety of a person or a domestic animal
as stated in division (A)(3) above. When an animal is declared potentially
dangerous, the Animal Control Officer shall cause one owner of the potentially
dangerous animal to be notified in writing that the animal is potentially
dangerous.
      (5)   .Designation as dangerous animal. The Animal Control Officer shall
have the authority to designate any animal as a dangerous animal upon receiving
evidence of the following:
         (a)   The animal has, when unprovoked, bitten, attacked or threatened
the safety of a person or domestic animal as stated in division (A)(3) above;
and/or
         (b)   The animal has been declared potentially dangerous and the
animal has then bitten, attacked or threatened the safety of a person or
domestic animal as stated in division (A)(3) above.
(Prior Code, § 901.11)
   (B)   License required. The owner must annually license dangerous and
potentially dangerous animals with the city and must license a newly declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous animal within 14 days after notice that a
animal has been declared dangerous or potentially dangerous. Regardless of any
appeal that may be requested, the owner must comply with the requirements of
M.S. § 347.52(a) and (c), as they may be amended from time to time, regarding
proper enclosures and notification to the city upon transfer or death of the
animal, until and unless a hearing officer or court of law reverses the
declaration.
      (1)   Process for dangerous animals. The city will issue a license to the
owner of a dangerous animal if the owner presents sufficient evidence that:
         (a)   There is a proper enclosure;
         (b)   Written proof that there is a surety bond by a surety company
authorized to conduct business in Minnesota in the sum of at least $300,000,
payable to any person injured by a dangerous animal, or receipt of a copy of a
policy of liability insurance issued by an insurance company authorized to do
business in Minnesota in the amount of at least $300,000, insuring the owner
for any personal injuries inflicted by the dangerous animal. Such surety bond
or insurance policy shall provide that no cancellation of the bond or policy
will be made unless the city is notified in writing by the surety company or
the insurance company at least ten days prior to such cancellation;
         (c)   The owner has paid the annual license fee for dangerous animals
as established in the Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges adopted pursuant
to §
30.11 of this Code.
         (d)   The owner has had a microchip identification implanted in the
dangerous animal. The name of the microchip manufacturer and identification
number of the microchip must be provided to the city. If the microchip is not
implanted by the owner, it may be implanted by the city at the owner's expense;
and
         (e)   The owner provides proof that the animal has been sterilized. If
the owner does not sterilize the animal within 30 days, the city may seize the
animal and sterilize it at the owner's expense.
      (2)   Process for potentially dangerous animals. The city will issue a
license to the owner of a potentially dangerous animal if the owner presents
sufficient evidence that:
         (a)   There is a proper enclosure;
         (b)   The owner has paid the annual license fee;
         (c)   The owner has had a microchip identification implanted in the
potentially dangerous animal. The name of the microchip manufacturer and
identification number of the microchip must be provided to the city. If the
microchip is not implanted by the owner, it may be implanted by the city at the
owner's expense.
      (3)   Inspection. A pre-license inspection of the premises to insure
compliance with the city code is required. If the city issues a license to the
owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous animal, the city shall be allowed
at any reasonable time to inspect the animal, the proper enclosure and all
places where the animal is kept.
      (4)   Warning symbol. The owner of a dangerous animal licensed under this
section must post a sign with the uniform dangerous animal warning symbol on
the property in order to inform children that there is a dangerous animal on
the property. The sign will be provided by the city upon issuance of the
license.
      (5)   Tags. A dangerous animal licensed under this section must wear a
standardized, easily identifiable tag at all times that contains the uniform
dangerous animal symbol, identifying the animal as dangerous. The tag shall be
provided by the city upon issuance of the license.
      (6)   License fee. The city will charge the owner an annual license fee
for a dangerous or potentially dangerous animal as established in the Ordinance
to Establish Fees and Charges as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Properly restrained in proper enclosure or outside of proper
enclosure. While on the owner's property, an owner of a dangerous or
potentially dangerous animal must keep it in a proper enclosure. Inside a
residential home, there must be a secured area maintained where the animal will
stay when persons other than family members are present. If the animal is
outside the proper enclosure, the animal must be muzzled and restrained by a
substantial chain or leash no longer than four feet and under the physical
restraint of an adult. The muzzle must be made in a manner that will prevent
the animal from biting any person or animal but that will not cause injury to
the animal or interfere with its vision or respiration.
   (D)   Notification requirements to city.
      (1)   Relocation or death. The owner of a animal that has been declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous must notify the City Clerk in writing if the
animal is to be relocated from its current address or if the animal has died.
The notification must be given in writing within 30 days of the relocation or
death. The notification must include the current owner's name and address, and
the new owner's name and the relocation address. If the relocation address is
outside of the city, the city may notify the local law enforcement agency of
the transfer of the animal into its jurisdiction.
      (2)   Renter's obligations. A person who owns or possess a dangerous or
potentially dangerous animal and who will rent property from another where the
animal will reside must disclose to the property owner prior to entering the
lease agreement and at the time of any lease renewal periods that the person
owns or possesses a dangerous or potentially dangerous animal that will reside
at the property. A animal owner, who is currently renting property, must notify
the property owner within 14 days of city notification if the owned animal is
newly declared as dangerous or potentially dangerous and the owner keeps the
animal on the property.
      (3)   Transfer of ownership into the city. No animal that has been
previously determined to be dangerous or potentially dangerous by another
jurisdiction shall be kept, owned or harbored in the city unless the animal's
owner complies with the requirements of this section prior to bringing the
animal into the city. Animals in violation of this division are subject to
impoundment and destruction.
   (E)   Seizure. Animal control may immediately seize any dangerous or
potentially dangerous animal if:
      (1)   After 14 days after the owner has notice that the animal is
declared dangerous or potentially dangerous, the animal is not validly licensed
and no appeal has been filed;
      (2)   After 14 days after the owner has notice that the animal is
dangerous, the owner does not secure the proper liability insurance or surety
coverage as required or such required insurance is cancelled;
      (3)   The animal is not maintained in a proper enclosure;
      (4)   The animal is outside the proper enclosure and not under proper
restraint, as required by §
91.11(C);
      (5)   After 30 days after the owner has notice that the animal is
dangerous, the animal is not sterilized, as required by §
91.11(B)(1)(e);
      (6)   The animal's microchip has been removed.
   (F)   Reclamation. A animal seized under §
91.11(E) may be reclaimed by the owner of the animal upon payment of
maintenance costs, and presenting proof to animal control that the requirements
of this section have been met. A animal not reclaimed under this division
within seven days may be disposed of and the owner will be liable to the city
for maintenance costs. A person claiming an interest in a seized animal may
prevent disposition of the animal by posting a security in an amount sufficient
to provide for the animal's maintenance costs. The security must be posted with
the city within seven days of the seizure inclusive of the date seized.
   (G)   Subsequent offenses: seizure. If a person has been convicted of
violating a provision of this section, and the person is charged with a
subsequent violation relating to the same animal, the animal may be seized. If
the owner is convicted of the crime for which the animal was seized, the court
may order that the animal be destroyed in a proper and humane manner and the
owner pay the maintenance costs. If the owner is not convicted and the animal
is not reclaimed by the owner within seven days after the owner has been
notified that the animal may be reclaimed, the animal may be disposed of in
manner permitted by law.
   (H)   Notice, hearings.
      (1)   Notice. After a animal has been declared dangerous or potentially
dangerous or has been seized for destruction, the city shall give notice by
delivering or mailing it to the owner of the animal, or by posting a copy of it
at the place where the animal is kept, or by delivering it to a person residing
on the property, and telephoning, if possible. The notice shall include:
         (a)   A description of the seized animal; the authority for and
purpose of the declaration and seizure; the time, place, and circumstances
under which the animal was declared; and the telephone number and contact
person where the animal is kept;
         (b)   A statement that the owner of the animal may request a hearing
concerning the declaration and that failure to do so within 14 days of the date
of the notice will terminate the owner's right to a hearing;
         (c)   A statement that if an appeal request is made within 14 days of
the notice, the owner must immediately comply with the requirements of M.S. §
347.52(a) and (c), as they may be amended from time to time, regarding proper
enclosures and notification to the city upon transfer or death of the animal,
until such time as the hearing officer issues an opinion;
         (d)   A statement that if the hearing officer affirms the dangerous
animal declaration, the owner will have 14 days from receipt of that decision
to comply with all other requirements of M.S. § 347.51, 347.515, and 347.52, as
they may be amended from time to time;
         (e)   A form to request a hearing; and
         (f)   A statement that if the animal has been seized, all maintenance
costs of the care, keeping, and disposition of the animal pending the outcome
of the hearing are the responsibility of the owner, unless a court or hearing
officer finds that the seizure or impoundment was not reasonably justified by
law.
      (2)   Right to hearing.
         (a)   After a animal has been declared dangerous, potentially
dangerous or has been seized for destruction, the owner may appeal in writing
to the city within 14 days after notice of the declaration or seizure. Failure
to do so within 14 days of the date of the notice will terminate the owner's
right to a hearing. The owner must pay a $100 fee for an appeal hearing.
         (b)   The appeal hearing will be held within 14 days of the request.
The hearing officer must be an impartial employee of the city or an impartial
person retained by the city to conduct the hearing.
         (c)   If the declaration or destruction is upheld by the hearing
officer, actual expenses of the hearing up to a maximum of $1,000, as well as
all maintenance costs, will be the responsibility of the animal's owner. The
hearing officer shall issue a decision on the matter within ten days after the
hearing. The decision shall be delivered to the animal's owner by hand delivery
or registered mail as soon as practical and a copy shall be provided to the
city. The decision of the hearing officer is final.
   (I)   Destruction of certain animals. The Police Chief and/or hearing
officer are authorized to order the destruction or other disposition of any
animal, after proper notice is given pursuant to §
91.11(H) and upon a finding that:
      (1)   The animal has habitually destroyed property or habitually
trespassed in a damaging manner on property of persons other than the owner;
      (2)   The animal has been declared dangerous, the owner's right to appeal
hereunder has been exhausted or expired, and the owner has failed to comply
with the provisions of this section;
      (3)   It is determined that the animal is infected with rabies;
      (4)   The animal inflicted substantial or great bodily harm on a human on
public or private property without provocation;
      (5)   The animal inflicted multiple bites on a human on public or private
property without provocation;
      (6)   The animal bit multiple human victims on public or private property
in the same attack without provocation;
      (7)   The animal bit a human on public or private property without
provocation in an attack where more than one animal participated in the attack;
or
      (8)   The animal poses a danger to the public's health, safety or
welfare. In determining whether the animal poses a danger to the public's
health, safety or welfare, the following factors may be considered:
         (a)   The animal weighs more than 20 pounds;
         (b)   The strength of the animal, including jaw strength;
         (c)   The animal's tolerance for pain;
         (d)   The animal's tendency to refuse to terminate an attack;
         (e)   The animal's propensity to bite humans or other domestic
animals;
         (f)   The animal's potential for unpredictable behavior;
         (g)   The animal's aggressiveness;
         (h)   The likelihood that a bite by the animal will result in serious
injury.
   (J)   Concealing of animals. No person may harbor, hide or conceal a animal
that the city has the authority to seize or that has been ordered into custody
for destruction or other proper disposition.
   (K)   Animal ownership prohibited.
      (1)   Except as provided below, a person shall not own a animal if the
person has been:
         (a)   Convicted of a third or subsequent violation of §
91.11(B), (C) or (D) or similar ordinance in another jurisdiction, or M.S. §§
347.51, 347.515 or 347.52, as they may be amended from time to time;
         (b)   Convicted of second degree manslaughter due to negligent or
intentional use of a animal under M.S. § 609.205(4), as it may be amended from
time to time; or
         (c)   Convicted of gross misdemeanor harm caused by a animal under
M.S. § 609.226, subd. 1 , as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Any person who owns a dangerous or potentially dangerous animal and
is found to be in violation of any of the provisions of this section or had
owned a dangerous or potentially dangerous animal but never achieved compliance
with this section may be prohibited from ownership or custody of another animal
for a period of five years after the original declaration. Any animal found to
be in violation, may be impounded until due process is completed, pursuant to §
91.11(H).
      (3)   If any member of a household is prohibited from owning a animal in
§
91.11(K)(1) or (2), unless specifically approved with or without restrictions
by the city, no person in the household is permitted to own a animal.
§ 91.12 BASIC CARE.
   (A)   All animals shall receive from their owners or keepers kind treatment,
housing in the winter and sufficient food and water for their comfort.
   (B)   Any person not treating his or her pet in a humane manner will be
subject to the penalties provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 901.13)
§ 91.13 ANIMALS IN HEAT.
   (A)   Every female dog or female cat in heat shall be confined in a building
or other enclosure in a manner that it cannot come in contact with another dog
or cat, except for planned breeding.
   (B)   Upon capture and failure to reclaim the animal, every dog or cat shall
be neutered or spayed prior to being transferred to a new owner.
(Prior Code, § 901.14)
§ 91.14 ENFORCING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Council designates the Chief of Police as the animal control
officer(s) to enforce the provisions of this section.
   (B)   In the officer’s duty of enforcing the provisions of this section, he
or she may from time to time, with the consent of the City Council, designate
assistants.
(Prior Code, § 901.15)
§ 91.15 POUND.
   The Council shall designate an official pound to which animals found in
violation of this chapter shall be taken for safe treatment and, if necessary,
for destruction.
(Prior Code, § 901.16)
§ 91.16 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   No person shall in any manner molest, hinder or interfere with any person
authorized by the City Council to capture dogs, cats or other animals and
convey them to the pound while engaged in that operation. Nor shall any
unauthorized person break open the pound, or attempt to do so, or take or
attempt to take from any agent any animal taken up by him or her in compliance
with this chapter, or in any other manner to interfere with or hinder the
officer in the discharge of his or her duties under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 901.17) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 LEG HOLD TRAPS PROHIBITED WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to preclude the potential
harm that may occur when persons or domestic animals come into contact with
traps in use, in or near a populated or developed area of the City.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DANGEROUS TRAP. A trap with a jaw spread equal to or greater than five
and one-half inches, including traps of such size commonly known as steel
traps, jawed traps, long-spring traps, coil-spring traps, flat-under spring
traps, foot traps, foot-hold traps, game traps or connibear traps.
      TRAP. Any mechanical device or snare designed to capture any animal and
which will kill, injure, or harmfully hold an animal including metal jaw type
devices, but excluding devices designed to kill rats, mice, gophers or moles,
and excluding cage type live traps.
      TRAPPING. The setting or laying or other use of a trap with the intent of
capturing or killing an animal.
   (C)   Trapping prohibited. Trapping anywhere in the City limits is
prohibited.
   (D)   Exception. The provisions of this section do not apply to:
      (1)   Persons who may employ a trap on their own private property to
prevent an unsafe condition or the waste or destruction of their property when
the persons have complied with the provisions of the law of the state; and
      (2)   The provisions of this section do not apply to representatives of
the City, county or state who may in the course of their duties be required to
use a trap to trap, snare, kill or otherwise restrain the free movement of any
animal, wildlife or birds for humane or authorized purposes.
(Prior Code, § 901.18) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Separate offenses. Each day a violation of this chapter is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable under this section.
   (B)   Misdemeanor. Unless otherwise provided, violation of this chapter
shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Petty misdemeanor. Violations of §§
91.02,
91.07,
91.13 and
91.14 of this chapter are petty misdemeanors punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 901.99)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Assessable current services
   
92.02   Tree diseases
Nuisances
   
92.15   Public nuisance
   
92.16   Public nuisances affecting health
   
92.17   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
92.18   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
92.19   Nuisance parking and storage
   
92.20   Duties of City officers
   
92.21   Abatement
   
92.22   Disposition of property
   
92.23   Recovery of cost
Weeds
   
92.35   Short title
   
92.36   Definitions; exclusions
   
92.37   Cutting and removal of grass, weeds, and rank vegetation
   
92.38   Duty of owner, lessee, or occupant
   
92.39   Removal by city; collection of costs
Clandestine Drug Lab Sites and Chemical Dump Sites
   
92.55   General provisions
   
92.56   Definitions
   
92.57   Declaration of site and contents as a public health nuisance
   
92.58   Law enforcement action
   
92.59   Seizure of property
   
92.60   Action by City’s Building Official
   
92.61   Site owner’s responsibility to act
   
92.62   Site owner’s responsibility for costs
   
92.63   City action and recovery of costs
   
92.64   Recovery of costs from persons causing damage
   
92.65   Site owner and address
   
92.66   Suspension of residential rental license
   
92.67   Unauthorized removal of postings
   
92.68   Entry onto or into site
   
92.69   Removal of personal property from the site
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CURRENT SERVICE. One or more of the following: snow, ice or rubbish
removal from sidewalks; weed elimination from street grass plots adjacent to
sidewalks or from private property; removal of leaves and grass clippings;
removal or elimination of public health or safety hazards from private
property, excluding any hazardous building included in M.S. §§ 463.15 through
463.26, as they may be amended from time to time; installation or repair of
water service lines; street sprinkling, street flushing, light street oiling or
other dust treatment of streets; repair of sidewalks and alleys; trimming and
care of trees and removal of unsound and insect-infected trees from the public
streets or private property; and the operation of a street lighting system.
   (B)   Snow, ice, dirt and rubbish.
      (1)   Duty of owners and occupants. The owner and the occupant of any
property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use diligence to keep the walk
safe for pedestrians. No owner or occupant shall allow snow, ice, dirt, leaves
and grass clippings or rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 24 hours after
its deposit thereon. Failure to comply with this section shall constitute a
violation.
      (2)   Removal by City. The City Clerk-Treasurer or other person
designated by the City Council may cause removal from all public sidewalks all
snow, ice, dirt and rubbish as soon as possible beginning 24 hours after any
matter has been deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased to fall. The
City Clerk-Treasurer or other designated person shall keep a record showing the
cost of removal adjacent to each separate lot and parcel.
   (C)   Public health and safety hazards. When the City removes or eliminates
public health or safety hazards from private property under the following
provisions of this chapter, the administrative officer responsible for doing
the work shall keep a record of the cost of the removal or elimination against
each parcel of property affected and annually deliver that information to the
City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   Installation and repair of water service lines. Whenever the City
installs or repairs water service lines serving private property under Ch. 52
of this code of ordinances, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a record of the
total cost of the installation or repair against the property.
   (E)   Repair of sidewalks and alleys.
      (1)   Duty of owner. The owner of any property within the City abutting a
public sidewalk or alley shall keep the sidewalk or alley in repair and safe
for pedestrians. Repairs shall be made in accordance with the standard
specifications approved by the City Council and on file in the office of the
City Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Inspections; notice. The City Council or its designee shall make
inspections as are necessary to determine that public sidewalks and alleys
within the City are kept in repair and safe for pedestrians or vehicles. If it
is found that any sidewalk or alley abutting on private property is unsafe and
in need of repairs, the City Council shall cause a notice to be served, by
registered or certified mail or by personal service, upon the record owner of
the property, ordering the owner to have the sidewalk or alley repaired and
made safe within 30 days and stating that if the owner fails to do so, the City
will do so and that the expense thereof must be paid by the owner and, if
unpaid, it will be made a special assessment against the property concerned.
      (3)   Repair by City. If the sidewalk or alley is not repaired within 30
days after receipt of the notice, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall report the
facts to the City Council and the City Council shall, by resolution, order the
work done by contract in accordance with law. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall
keep a record of the total cost of the repair attributable to each lot or
parcel of property.
   (F)   Personal liability. The owner of property on which or adjacent to
which a current service has been performed shall be personally liable for the
cost of the service. As soon as the service has been completed and the cost
determined, the City Clerk-Treasurer, or other designated official, shall
prepare a bill and mail it to the owner and, thereupon, the amount shall be
immediately due and payable at the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (G)   Damage to public property. Any person driving any vehicle, equipment,
object or contrivance upon any street, road, highway or structure shall be
liable for all damages which the surface or structure thereof may sustain as a
result of any illegal operation, or driving or moving of the vehicle, equipment
or object or contrivance; or as a result of operating, driving or moving any
vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance weighing in excess of the maximum
weight permitted by statute or this code. When the driver is not the owner of
the vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance, but is operating, driving or
moving it with the express or implied permission of the owner, then the owner
and the driver shall be jointly and severally liable for any damage. Any person
who willfully acts or fails to exercise due care and by that act damages any
public property shall be liable for the amount thereof, which amount shall be
collectable by action or as a lien under M.S. § 514.67, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (H)   Assessment. On or before September 1 of each year, the City Clerk-
Treasurer shall list the total unpaid charges for each type of current service
and charges under this section against each separate lot or parcel to which
they are attributable under this section. The City Council may then spread the
charges against property benefitted as a special assessment under the authority
of M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to time and other pertinent
statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collection along with
current taxes the following year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten,
as the City Council may determine in each case.
(Prior Code, § 902.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 TREE DISEASES.
   (A)   Trees constituting nuisance declared. The following are public
nuisances whenever they may be found within the City:
      (1)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Dutch Elm disease fungus Ceratocystis Ulmi (Buisman) Moreau or
which harbors any of the elm bark beetles Scolytus Multistriatus (Eichh.) or
Hylungopinus Rufipes (Marsh);
      (2)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including branches, stumps,
firewood or other elm material from which the bark has not been removed and
burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide;
      (3)   Any living or standing oak tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Oak Wilt fungus Ceratocystis fagacearum;
      (4)   Any dead oak tree or part thereof which in the opinion of the
designated officer constitutes a hazard, including, but not limited to, logs,
branches, stumps, roots, firewood or other oak material which has not been
stripped of its bark and burned or sprayed with an effective fungicide; and
      (5)   Any other shade tree with an epidemic disease.
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance. It is unlawful for any person to permit any
public nuisance, as defined in division (A) above, to remain on any premises
the person owns or controls within the City. The City Council may, by
resolution, order the nuisance abated. Before action is taken on that
resolution, the City Council shall publish notice of its intention to meet to
consider taking action to abate the nuisance. This notice shall be mailed to
the affected property owner and published once no less than one week prior to
the meeting. The notice shall state the time and place of the meeting, the
street affected, action proposed, the estimated cost of the abatement and the
proposed basis of assessment, if any, of costs. At the hearing or adjournment
thereof, the City Council shall hear any property owner with reference to the
scope and desirability of the proposed project. The City Council shall
thereafter adopt a resolution confirming the original resolution with
modifications as it considers desirable and provide for the doing of the work
by day labor or by contract.
   (C)   Record of costs. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a record of the
costs of abatement done under this section for all work done for which
assessments are to be made, stating and certifying the description of the land,
lots, parcels involved and the amount chargeable to each.
   (D)   Unpaid charges. On or before September 1 of each year, the City Clerk-
Treasurer shall list the total unpaid charges for each abatement against each
separate lot or parcel to which they are attributable under this section. The
City Council may then spread the charges or any portion thereof against the
property involved as a special assessment as authorized by M.S. § 429.101, as
it may be amended from time to time, and other pertinent statutes for
certification to the County Auditor and collection the following year along
with the current taxes.
(Prior Code, § 902.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
NUISANCES
§ 92.15 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
    A person must not act or fail to act in any manner that causes a public
nuisance. For purposes of this chapter, a person that does any of the following
is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage any public
highway or right-of-way or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Does any other act or omission declared by law or this chapter to be a
public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 902.15) (Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-6-2020; Ord. 2020-02, passed 4-
13-2020)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.16 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations, exterior storage, throwing, dumping or depositing of
any of the following on unlicensed or unauthorized public or private property:
      (1)   Waste, refuse, trash, garbage, junk or debris of any nature or
description;
      (2)   Manure, decaying matter or unwholesome food or vegetable matter;
      (3)   Disused machinery, household appliances or automobile components;
      (4)   Poisonous or injurious substances;
      (5)   Brush piles, vegetation, uncut wood or lumber or firewood not
neatly stacked or secured;
      (6)    Discarded household goods, clothing, shoes and furniture;
      (7)   Piles of sand, stones, dirt, ashes or cinders; and/or
      (8)   Other items that tend to cause an unsightly appearance, which may
create fire, health or safety hazards, which allow for the harboring of
rodents, vermin or the rank undergrowth of vegetation.
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease;
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license;
   (L)   The exterior storage of pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery or
similar material unless shielded from public view and in conjunction with a
building permit for the use of these materials on site;
   (M)    The piling, keeping, parking or exterior storage of any motor vehicle
that is not in operating condition, is partially dismantled, used for repair of
parts or as a source of repair or replacement parts for other vehicles, kept
for scrapping, dismantling or salvage of any kind, or which is not properly
licensed for operation within the state, pursuant to M.S. Ch. 168B, as it may
be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 902.16) (Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-6-2020; Ord. 2020-02, passed 4-
13-2020  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.17 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized by federal, state or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;
   (D)    All places where intoxicating liquor or 3.2 malt liquor is
manufactured or disposed of in violation of law or where, in violation of law,
people are permitted to resort for the purpose of drinking intoxicating or 3.2
malt liquor, or where intoxicating liquor or 3.2 malt liquor is kept for sale
or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and other property
used for maintaining that place; and
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating or
3.2 malt liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or
illegal purpose.
(Prior Code, § 902.17) (Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-6-2020; Ord. 2020-02, passed 4-
13-2020)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.18 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 24 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   All obnoxious noises in violation of Minn. Rules Ch. 7030, as it may
be amended from time to time which are hereby incorporated by reference into
this code;
   (E)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharging of the
exhaust of any stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all terrain vehicle, snowmobile or any recreational
device, except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud
or explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
   (F)   The using or operation or permitting the using or operation of any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine or
other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a distinctly and loudly
audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of any person
nearby. Operation of any device referred to above between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at the property line
of the structure or building in which it is located, or at a distance of 50
feet if the source is located outside a structure or building shall be prima
facie evidence of violation of this section;
   (G)   The participation in a party or gathering of people giving rise to
noise which disturbs the peace, quiet or repose of the occupants of adjoining
or other property, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
   (H)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds, except under conditions as are
permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (I)   Radio aerials or television antennas erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (J)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (K)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not constructed
and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (L)   The allowing of rain water, ice or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (M)   Any barbed wire fence less than six feet above the ground and within
three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (N)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (O)   Waste water or snow cast upon or permitted to flow upon, through or
over streets or upon other public properties;
   (P)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies or other material in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health or safety
hazards from accumulation;
   (Q)   Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
another condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (R)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter or ditch with trash or other materials;
   (S)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
   (T)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
   (U)   All outdoor vending machines five feet high or higher that are not
anchored to prevent them from tipping over;
   (V)   The existence of a structure which because of fire, wind, natural
disaster or physical deterioration is no longer suitable as a dwelling, nor
useful for any other purpose for which it was intended, is prohibited within
the City if the existence occurs for a period of more than 30 days; and
   (W)   The existence of any vacant building, garage or other out building, is
prohibited within any areas zoned for residential purposes within the City,
unless the building is kept securely locked, windows kept glazed or neatly
boarded up, and is otherwise protected to prevent entrance thereto by vandals.
   (X)   Access property through a public right-of-way without the use of the
driveway in a manner that causes disturbance to the vegetation in the right-of-
way or causes erosion.
(Prior Code, § 902.18) (Ord. 2020-02, passed 4-13-2020; Ord. 2021-07, passed 6-
28-2021)
§ 92.19 NUISANCE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking and storage on
residentially zoned property of large numbers of vehicles and vehicles,
materials, supplies or equipment not customarily used for residential purposes
in violation of the requirements of this section is declared a public nuisance
because it: 1) obstructs views on streets and private property; 2) creates
cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas; 3) prevents the full use of
residential streets for residential parking; 4) decreases adjoining landowners'
and occupants' use and enjoyment of their property and neighborhood; and 6)
otherwise adversely affects property values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Unlawful parking and storage.
      (1)   A person must not place or store outdoors, or allow the exterior
placement or storage of pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery, concrete,
bricks, stone, shingles or similar material unless shielded from public view
and in conjunction with a building permit for use of these materials on site;
      (2)   The parking and storage of vehicles, trailers, boats and other such
items on property in violation of §
154.067 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-6-2020; Ord. 2020-02, passed 4-13-2020)
§ 92.20 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   The designated City officials for applying and enforcing the provisions of
this chapter relating to public nuisances within this jurisdiction are law
enforcement officers, and the zoning administrator or their designee. The
designated City official shall have the power to inspect private premises and
take all reasonable precautions to prevent the commission and maintenance of
public nuisances. Except in emergency situations of imminent danger to human
life and safety, no City official will enter private property for the purpose
of inspecting or preventing public nuisances without the permission of the
owner, resident or other person in control of the property, unless the officer
or designated person has obtained a warrant or order from a court of competent
jurisdiction authorizing entry.
(Prior Code, § 902.19) (Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-6-2020; Ord. 2020-02, passed 4-
13-2020)  
§ 92.21 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   General nuisance determination and notice.
      (1)   Whenever a law enforcement officer or designated City staff
determines that a public nuisance is being maintained or exists on the premises
in the City, the officer or designated staff person shall notify in writing the
owner of record, any lessee, or occupant of the premises of the fact and order
that the nuisance be terminated or abated. The notice of violation shall
specify the steps to be taken to abate the nuisance and the time within which
the nuisance is to be abated. The notice shall contain the following:
         (a)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification;
         (b)   A description and location of the nuisance and the remedial
action required to abate the nuisance;
         (c)   The abatement deadline to be determined by the enforcement
officer to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public;
         (d)   A statement that the notice may be appealed to the City Council
by filing a written request with the City Administrator before the abatement
deadline designated in the order and within five business days of service of
the notice; and
         (e)   A statement that if the remedial action is not taken nor a
request for a hearing filed with the City Administrator within the time
specified, the City may abate the nuisance and charge all costs incurred
therein against the real estate as a special assessment to be collected in the
same manner as property taxes under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from
time to time, where applicable, or seek injunctive relief.
      (2)   Service of notice. Unless otherwise required, any one or more of
the following methods of service shall be adequate:
         (a)   By personal delivery;
         (b)   By mail, unless it is a written order which gives three days or
less for the completion of any act. If a mailed notice is returned by the
United States Postal Service, a good faith effort shall be made to determine
the correct address, unless the notice orders abatement and that abatement has
been completed; or
         (c)   If the appropriate party or post office address cannot be
determined after reasonable effort, by posting a copy of the order in a
conspicuous place on the property for 72 hours.
      (3)   Appeal process.
         (a)   Setting a hearing date. In the event that an appeal is filed
with the City Administrator to appeal a notice of violation under this chapter
or to appeal a resolution under division (B)(1)(b) of this section, the City
Council shall schedule the matter for a hearing at the next scheduled City
Council meeting.
         (b)   Notice. The City Administrator or their designee shall provide
at least 72 hours’ prior written notice of the date, time, place, and subject
of the hearing. Notice must be served as detailed in division (A)(2) above.
         (c)   Hearing. 
            1.   At the time of the hearing, the City Council shall hear from
the designated City staff, the City Attorney, and any other parties who wish to
be heard. After the hearing, the City Council may confirm, reverse, or modify
the order of the Enforcement Officer.
            2.   After the hearing, the Council may, in the form of a
resolution, declare there exists a public nuisance and shall in the resolution,
fix a time within which the nuisance shall be abated and shall provide that if
corrective action is not taken within the time specified, the City may abate
the nuisance. The City Administrator or their designee shall serve a copy of
this resolution as detailed in division (A)(2) above.
   (B)   General abatement procedures. Unless the nuisance is subject to
special procedures described in state law or elsewhere in this code, in which
case those procedures shall be followed, the City may abate a nuisance by any
of the procedures described below, at the discretion of City staff.
      (1)   City Council action.
         (a)   City Council consideration. Without affecting any other penalty
provision in this chapter, the City Council may, in conjunction with such
penalty or in the alternative in the form a resolution, declare that there
exists upon privately owned lands or premises a public nuisance.
         (b)   Resolution. The City Council may determine, by resolution, that
the condition identification in the notice of violation is a nuisance and
further order that if the nuisance is not abated within the time prescribed by
the City Council, the City may cause the removal or abatement of such nuisance.
         (c)   Notice of resolution. The City Administrator or their designee
shall serve a copy of this resolution as detailed in division (A)(2) above. The
notice shall designate the time that the Council considers reasonable for the
abatement or removal of such nuisance and the right to a hearing before the
City Council made within five days of the notice of abatement and that, if no
hearing is demanded, any right to a hearing is waived.
         (d)   Abatement by owner, agent, or occupants. In instances where the
Council declares by resolution that there is a public nuisance and proceeds as
provided herein, the owner, agent, or occupants of the premises, after such
notice, shall remove and abate the nuisance. The cost of such removal or
abatement shall be paid by the owner, agent, or occupants.
      (2)   Civil action. In conjunction with City Council action, or in lieu
thereof, the City may seek injunctive relief to terminate, restrain, or abate a
public nuisance and to prohibit a violation of this chapter by temporary or
permanent injunctive relief. If the court issues an abatement order requiring
owner abatement or City abatement, then the City may dispense with the notice
and hearing requirements of this section.
   (C)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement. When the Enforcement Officer
or an authorized representative determines that a nuisance exists on a property
and the nuisance constitutes an immediate danger or hazard which if not
immediately abated shall endanger the health or safety of the public and there
shall not exist sufficient time to follow the procedures in this section, the
City may abate the nuisance by the procedure described below:
      (1)   Order by Mayor. The City shall order emergency abatement by an
administrative order to be signed by the Mayor. A good faith effort shall be
made to inform the owner that the action is being taken.
      (2)   Notice of the abatement. Following an emergency abatement, as soon
as the costs incurred are known, the Enforcement Officer shall serve written
notice upon the owner. The notice shall contain:
         (a)   A description of the nuisance;
         (b)   The action taken by the City;
         (c)   The reasons for immediate action;
         (d)   The costs incurred in abating the nuisance and a statement that
these costs may be charged as a special assessment against the property and
collected in the same manner as property taxes; and
         (e)   A statement that the owner may obtain a hearing before the City
Council to review the actions taken by the City by filing a written request
with the City Administrator within ten working days of the date of the notice.
      (3)   Setting hearing date. In the event that the owner files a request
for a review of the action with the City Administrator, the City Council shall
as soon as possible fix a date for a hearing.
      (4)   Notice. The City Administrator shall notify the owner of the date,
time, place, and subject of the hearing by one of the service of notice methods
listed in division (A)(2) of this section.
      (5)   Hearing. At the time of the hearing, the City Council shall hear
from the Enforcement Officer, any authorized representative(s), and any other
parties who wish to be heard. After the hearing, the City Council may adopt a
resolution levying an assessment for all or a portion of the costs incurred by
the City in abating the nuisance as outlined in §
92.23(B).
   (D)   Hazardous or substandard buildings. When a building or a property
constitutes a fire hazard or a hazard to public safety or health the City may
pursue removal of the hazard under M.S. §§ 463.15 – 463.261 as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (E)   Abatement of abandoned and junk vehicles. The Chief of Police or their
designee may take into custody and impound any vehicle described in §
92.16(M) in the manner authorized under §§
90.18 et seq. and M.S. Ch. 168B, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (F)   Unlawful parties or gatherings. When law enforcement determines that a
gathering is creating such noise disturbance as prohibited under §
92.18(F) or (G), the officer may order all persons present, other than the
owner or tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to disperse
immediately. Every owner or tenant of such premises who has knowledge of the
disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the disturbance is
stopped.
   (G)   This chapter is supplementary and shall not deprive the City of any of
its powers with respect to nuisances and abatement thereof, whether derived
from common law, statute, or ordinance. The City, in its discretion, may
proceed as provided under this section or provided any other applicable law or
ordinance. In addition, a violation of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor. All subsequent offenses shall constitute a separate violation of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 902.20) (Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-6-2020; Ord. 2020-02, passed 4-
13-2020; Ord. 2021-07, passed 6-28-2021)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.22 DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY.
   The City maintains the right to dispose of all property that it removes from
public and private property through abatement procedures set forth in this
chapter. Upon seizure of the property constituting the nuisance, the City will
inventory the property, and the City Administrator or their designee will
determine whether the items seized have any reasonable value, in excess of City
costs to store and dispose of the property. If, after inventory, the City
Administrator or their designee makes a determination that no reasonable value
of the property exists or that destruction of the property is necessary to
abate the nuisance, the property shall be destroyed. If the City Administrator
or their designee, however, determines such destruction is not necessary and
there is reasonable value remaining in the property, the property shall be
sold. The amount of money received as a result of any sale, if any, shall be
applied against the costs incurred by the City in the abatement, including
without limitation the cost of the removal, storage, handling, destruction,
disposal, staff time, legal, and other consulting fees. Any balance remaining
after such reimbursement to the City, if any, shall be remitted to the property
owner.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-6-2020; Ord. 2020-02, passed 4-13-2020; Ord. 2021-07,
passed 6-28-2021)
§ 92.23 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability.
      (1)   The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been abated by the
City shall be personally liable for the cost to the City of the abatement,
including administrative and legal costs.
      (2)   As soon as the work has been completed and the cost determined, the
City Clerk-Treasurer or other official shall prepare a bill for the cost and
serve it upon the owner. See §
92.21(A)(2) for proper service methods.
      (3)   Thereupon, the amount shall be immediately due and payable at the
office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
      (4)   The City may recover the cost of abatement, including the costs of
obtaining a court order, by civil action against the owner and/or the person
who committed or maintained the nuisance. Recoverable costs include cost of the
removal, storage, handling, destruction, disposal, staff time, legal, and other
consulting fees. The City may assess such costs against the property as
provided in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Assessment. If the City is not fully reimbursed for all of its costs
listed in division (A)(4) of this section, all such unpaid costs, charges, and
fees may be assessed against each lot or parcel where the nuisance existed,
pursuant to M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to time. The City
Council may direct that the costs, charges, and fees be certified to the County
Auditor for collection along with the current real estate taxes for the
following year or in annual installments, not exceeding five years, as the
Council may determine in each case.
(Prior Code, § 902.21) (Ord. 2020-02, passed 4-13-2020; Ord. 2021-07, passed 6-
28-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
WEEDS
§ 92.35 SHORT TITLE.
    This subchapter shall be cited as the “Weed Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 902.35) (Ord. 2021-07, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 92.36 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      WEEDS, GRASSES and RANK VEGETATION.
         (a)   Includes, but is not limited to, the following:
            1.   Alum (allium), Buckthorn, Bur Cucumber, Canada Thistle,
Corncockle, Cressleaf Groundsel, Curly Dock, Dodder, Field Bindweed, French
Weed, Hairy Whitetop, Hedge Bindweed, Hoary Cress, Horsenettle, Johnsongrass,
Leafy Spurge, Mile-A-Minute Weed, Musk Thistle, Oxeye Daisy, Perennial
Sowthistle, Poison Hemlock, Purple Loosestrife, Quackgrass, Russian Knapweed,
Russian Thistle, Serrated Tussock, Shatter Cane, Sorghum, Wild Carrot, Wild
Garlic, Wild Mustard, Wild Onion, Wild Parsnip;
            2.   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not
pruned, sprayed, cultivated or otherwise maintained for two consecutive years;
            3.   Bushes of the species of tall, common or European barberry,
further known as berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties;
            4.   Any weeds, grass or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers
or other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding eight inches; and
            5.   Rank vegetation includes the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth
of annuals and perennial plants.
         (b)   The term WEEDS does not include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants
or crops.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants that have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
(Prior Code, § 902.37) (Ord. 2021-07, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 92.37 CUTTING AND REMOVAL OF GRASS, WEEDS, AND RANK VEGETATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee or occupant, or any agent,
representative, or employee of any such owner, lessee or occupant, having
control of any occupied and unoccupied lot or land or any part thereof in the
City to permit or maintain on any such lot or land, or on or along the
sidewalk, street or alley adjacent to such lot, any growth of weeds, grasses,
and rank vegetation. It shall also be unlawful for any such person to cause,
permit or maintain poison ivy, ragweed, noxious or other poisonous plants, or
plants detrimental to health, to grow or exist on any such lot or land in the
City.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 92.38 DUTY OF OWNER, LESSEE, OR OCCUPANT.
   All owners, lessees, or occupants shall be responsible for the removal,
cutting or disposal and elimination of weeds, grasses, and rank vegetation or
other uncontrolled plant growth on their property, necessary to comply with §
92.37; provided that, except for poisonous, noxious, or harmful vegetation, if
the cutting of weeds, grass or other vegetation has been and will be undertaken
for agriculturally related purposes, the cutting of such vegetation must be
done at least once every 35 days between May 1 and October 1, which shall be
deemed in compliance with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 902.38) (Ord. 2021-07, passed 6-28-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.39 REMOVAL BY CITY; COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   If the provisions of §§
92.37 and
92.38 are not complied with, the City Administrator or their designee, shall
serve written notice upon the owner, lessee, or occupant or any person having
the care or control of any such lot or land to comply with the provisions of
this chapter. If the person upon whom the notice is served fails, neglects or
refuses to cut and remove or cause to be cut and removed such weeds, grasses,
or rank vegetation within seven days after receipt of such notice, or if no
person can be found in the City who either is or claims to be the owner of such
lot or land, or who either claims to represent such owner, the City
Administrator or their designee shall cause such grass, weeds, or other rank
vegetation to be cut and removed and the cost of inspection and such cutting
and removal, plus other additional costs in connection therewith, may be
assessed against each lot or parcel where the nuisance existed, pursuant to
M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to time. The City Council may
direct that the costs, charges, and fees be certified to the County Auditor for
collection along with the current real estate taxes for the following year or
in annual installments, not exceeding five years, as the council may determine
in each case.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 6-28-2021)
CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITES AND CHEMICAL DUMP SITES
§ 92.55 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this subchapter is to reduce public
exposure to health risks where law enforcement officers have determined that
hazardous chemicals or residue from a suspected clandestine drug lab site or
associated dump site may exist. Professional reports, based on assessments,
testing and investigations, show that chemical used in the production of
illicit drugs can condense, penetrate and contaminate surfaces, furnishings and
equipment of surrounding structures. The City Council finds that such sites,
and the personal property within the sites, may contain suspected chemicals and
residues that place people, particularly children or adults of child bearing
age, at risk when exposed through inhabiting or visiting the site or using or
being exposed to contaminated personal property.
   (B)   Interpretation and application. In the interpretation and application
of this subchapter, the provisions herein shall be construed to protect the
public health, safety and welfare. Where the conditions imposed by any
provision of this subchapter are either more or less restrictive to the public
than comparable provisions imposed by any other law, ordinance, statute or
regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or which
impose higher standards or requirements on the public shall prevail. Should any
court of competent jurisdiction declare any section or subpart of this
subchapter to be invalid, the decision shall not affect the validity of the
article as a whole or any part thereof, other than the provision declared
invalid.
(Prior Code, § 905.01)
§ 92.56 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHEMICAL DUMP SITE. Any place or area where chemicals or other waste
materials used in a clandestine drug lab operation have been located.
   CHILD. Any person less than 18 years of age.
   CITY. The City of Dundas.
   CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB OPERATION. The unlawful manufacture or attempt to
manufacture a controlled substance.
   CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITE. Any place or area where law enforcement has
determined that conditions associated with an unlawful clandestine drug lab
operation exist. A CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITE may include dwellings, accessory
buildings, structures or units, a chemical dump site, a vehicle, boat, trailer
or other appliance or any other area or location.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any drug, substance or immediate precursor in M.S. §
152.02, Schedules I through V, as they may be amended from time to time. The
term shall not include distilled spirits, wine, malt beverages, intoxicating
liquors or tobacco.
   HAZARDOUS DRUG WASTE. Waste generated from a clandestine drug lab operation.
   MANUFACTURE. In places other than a pharmacy, the production, cultivation,
quality control and standardization, by mechanical, physical, chemical or
pharmaceutical means, and the packing, tableting, encapsulating, labeling,
relabeling or filling of drugs.
   OWNER. Any person(s), firms(s), corporation(s) or other entity who or which
owns, in whole or in part, the land, building, structure, vehicle, boat,
trailer or other location associated with a clandestine drug lab site or
chemical dump site.
(Prior Code, § 905.02)
§ 92.57 DECLARATION OF SITE AND CONTENTS AS A PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE.
   All dwellings, accessory structures, buildings, vehicles, boats, trailers,
personal property, adjacent property or other locations, associated with a
clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site are potentially unsafe due to
health hazards and are hereby declared to be a public nuisance under §
92.15 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 905.03)
§ 92.58 LAW ENFORCEMENT ACTION.
   (A)   If law enforcement authorities determine the existence of a
clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site, the site and all personal
property therein may be declared a public health nuisance.
   (B)   Law enforcement authorities who identify conditions associated with a
clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site, which may place neighbors, the
visiting public or present and future occupants of the site at risk for
exposure to harmful contaminates and other associated conditions, are
authorized to take the following action:
      (1)   Promptly notify the City’s Building Official, Child Protection,
Public Health Authorities and the appropriate enforcement division of the drug
enforcement administration of the U.S. Justice Department of the location of
the site and the owner, if known, of the conditions found;
      (2)   Treat, store, transport or dispose of all hazardous drug waste
found at the site in manner consistent with the state’s Department of Health,
the state’s Pollution Control and the county’s Health Department rules and
regulations;
      (3)   Issue a temporary declaration of public health nuisance for the
affected site and post a copy of the declaration at all doorway entrances to
the site or, in the case of bare land, post the declaration in several
conspicuous places on the property. This temporary declaration of public health
nuisance issued by law enforcement shall expire after the City’s Building
Official inspects the site and determines the appropriateness of issuing a
permanent declaration of public health nuisance;
      (4)   Notify all persons occupying the site that a temporary declaration
of public health nuisance has been issued;
      (5)   Require all persons occupying the site to immediately vacate the
site, remove all pets from the site and not return without written
authorization from the City’
      (6)   Notify all occupants vacating the site that all personal property
at the site may be contaminated with dangerous chemical residue; and
      (7)   Put locks on each doorway entrance to the site to prohibit people
from entering the site without authorization after all occupants of the site
have vacated.
   (C)   The obligation to promptly notify the persons and organizations
mentioned above may be delayed to accomplish appropriate law enforcement
objectives, but only to the extent that public health and child protection
responsibilities are not unnecessarily compromised.
(Prior Code, § 905.04)
§ 92.59 SEIZURE OF PROPERTY.
   When the clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site is inside a
vehicle, boat, trailer or other form of moveable personal property, law
enforcement authorities shall immediately seize it and not allow it to be
transported, except to a more secure location. In such circumstances, all other
requirements of this subchapter shall be followed as closely as possible given
the specific type of property in which the site is discovered.
(Prior Code, § 905.05)
§ 92.60 ACTION BY CITY’S BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Inspection and declaration of nuisance. Within 48 hours of
notification that law enforcement authorities have determined the existence of
a clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site, the City’s Building Official
shall inspect the site to determine the appropriate scope of a permanent
declaration of public health nuisance. Based on the results of the inspection,
the City’s Building Official may then promptly issue a permanent declaration of
public health nuisance and a “Do Not Enter - Unsafe to Occupy” order for the
affected site to replace the temporary declaration issued and posted by law
enforcement. A copy of the permanent declaration and order shall be posted on
all doorway entrances to the site or, in the case of bare land, shall be posted
in several conspicuous places on the property.
   (B)   Abatement order. After the permanent declaration of public health
nuisance has been issued and posted, the City’s Building Official shall send
written notice to the site owner ordering abatement of the public health
nuisance. The abatement order shall include the following information:
      (1)   A copy of the declaration of public health nuisance and “Do Not
Enter - Unsafe to Occupy” order;
      (2)   Information about the potentially hazardous condition of the site;
      (3)   Notification of suspension of the site’s rental license, if
applicable;
      (4)   A summary of the site owner’s and occupant’s responsibilities under
this subchapter; and
      (5)   Information that may help the owner locate appropriate services
necessary to abate the public health nuisance.
   (C)   Notice to concerned parties. The Building Official shall also mail a
copy of the permanent declaration of public health nuisance, a copy of this
subchapter, and a notification of the suspension of the site’s rental
licensees, if applicable, to the following concerned parties at their last
known addresses:
      (1)   Occupants or residents of the site, if the identities of the
persons are known;
      (2)   Neighbors in proximity to the site who may be reasonably affected
by the conditions found;
      (3)   The City Administrator;
      (4)   The City’s Police Department;
      (5)   The appropriate enforcement division of the drug enforcement
administration of the state’s or U.S. Justice Department; and
      (6)   Other City, state and local authorities, such as the City’s Water
Department, the state’s Pollution Control Agency, the state’s Department of
Health and the Department of Natural Resources which are known to have public
and protection responsibilities that are applicable to the situation.
   (D)   Modification or removal of declaration. The City’s Building Official
is authorized to modify or remove the declaration of public health nuisance
after the Building Official receives documentation from a City-approved
environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm stating that the suspected
health and safety risks, including those to neighbors and potential dwelling
occupants, either do not exist or have been sufficiently abated or corrected to
justify amendment or removal of the declaration.
(Prior Code, § 905.06)
§ 92.61 SITE OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY TO ACT.
   (A)   Within ten business days of the date the abatement order is mailed to
the owner of the site, the owner shall accomplish the following:
      (1)   Provide the City’s Building Official with written notification:
         (a)   The owner has confirmed that all persons and their pets have
vacated the site;
         (b)   Of the name(s) of all children who the owner believes were
residing at the site during the time period the clandestine drug lab or
chemical dump site is suspected to have been at the site; and
         (c)   The site will remain vacated and secured until the public health
nuisance is completely abated as required by this subchapter.
      (2)   Contract with one or more City-approved environmental hazard
testing and cleaning firms to conduct the following work in accordance with the
most current State Department of Health guidelines;
         (a)   A detailed on-site assessment of the extent of contamination at
the site and the contamination of the personal property therein;
         (b)   Soil testing of the site and testing of all property and soil
proximity to the site which the environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm
determines may have been affected by the condition found at the site;
         (c)   A complete clean up of the site (including, but not limited to,
the clean up or removal of contaminated plumbing, ventilation systems, fixtures
and contaminated soil) or a demolition of the site and a complete clean up of
the demolished site;
         (d)   A complete clean up, or disposal at an approved dump site, of
all contaminated personal property in the site;
         (e)   A complete clean up of all property and soil in proximity to the
site which is found to have been affected by the conditions found at the site;
and
         (f)   Remediation testing and follow-up testing, including, but not
limited to, testing of the ventilation system and plumbing, to determine that
all health risks are sufficiently reduced, according to the state’s Department
of Health guidelines, to allow safe human occupancy and use of the site and use
of the personal property therein and of all property and soil in proximity to
the site.
      (3)   Provide the City’s Building Official with the identity of the
testing and cleaning firm with which the owner has contracted for abatement of
the public health nuisance as required above; and
      (4)   Sign an agreement with the City’s Building Official establishing a
clean up schedule. The schedule shall establish reasonable deadlines for
completing all actions required by this subchapter for abatement of the public
health nuisance. In determining appropriate deadlines, the City’s Building
Official shall consider practical limitations and the availability of
contractors in approving the schedule for clean up.
   (B)   The site owner must meet all deadlines established on the clean up
schedule. Also, pursuant to the deadlines established by the clean up schedule,
the site owner is required to provide the City’s Building Official with written
documentation of the clean up process, including a signed statement from a
City-approved environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm that the site, all
personal property therein, and all property and soil in proximity to the site,
is safe for human occupancy and use, and that the clean up was conducted in
accordance with the most current State Department of Health guidelines.
(Prior Code, § 905.07)
§ 92.62 SITE OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   The site owner shall be responsible for all costs, including those of
the City, of dealing with and abating the public health nuisance, including
contractor’s fees and the City’s costs for services performed in association
with the clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site clean up.
   (B)   The City’s costs may also include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Posting of the site;
      (2)   Notification of affected parties;
      (3)   Securing the site, providing limited access to the site and
prosecution of unauthorized persons found at the site;
      (4)   Expenses related to the recovery of costs, including the assessment
process;
      (5)   Laboratory fees;
      (6)   Clean up services;
      (7)   Administrative fees;
      (8)   Legal fees; and
      (9)   Other associated costs.
(Prior Code, § 905.08)
§ 92.63 CITY ACTION AND RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   (A)   (1)   If the building owner fails to comply with any of the
requirements of this subchapter, the City’s Building Official is authorized to
take all reasonable actions necessary to abate the public health nuisance,
including, but not limited to, contracting with a City-approved environmental
hazard testing and cleaning firm to conduct the work.
      (2)   The Building Official is also authorized to provide a copy of the
declaration of public health nuisance to the lien and/or mortgage holders of
the affected site to help assure that persons with interest in the site have
access to information about the declaration of public health nuisance.
   (B)   If the costs to clean the site or to clean the personal property at
the site are prohibitively high in relation to the value of the site or the
personal property, the City is authorized to remove or demolish the site,
structure or building and/or dispose of the personal property therein. These
actions shall be taken in accordance with the provisions of M.S. Ch. 463, as it
may be amended from time to time, together with any amendments or modifications
thereto.
   (C)   If the City abates the public health nuisance, in addition to any
other legal remedy, the City shall be entitled to recover all of its out of
pocket costs plus an additional 25% of the costs for administrative and legal
expense. The City may recover costs by civil action against the owner of the
site or by assessing the costs as a special charge against the site as taxes
and special assessments are certified and collected pursuant to M.S. § 429.101,
as it may be amended from time to time, or according to the provisions of M.S.
§§ 463.15 through 463.26, as they may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 905.09)
§ 92.64 RECOVERY OF COSTS FROM PERSONS CAUSING DAMAGE.
   No provisions of this subchapter are intended to limit the site owner’s,
resident’s or the City’s right to recover costs incurred under this subchapter
from either the persons contributing to the public health nuisance, such as the
operators of the clandestine drug lab and/or from other lawful sources.
(Prior Code, § 905.10)
§ 92.65 SITE OWNER AND ADDRESS.
   When the site is real property and the owner or the address of the owner of
the site is unknown, the owner and the owner’s address is deemed to be that of
the property’s taxpayer’s name and address as that information is maintained by
the County Auditor’s office. When the site is a vehicle, boat or trailer and
the owner or the address of the owner of the site is unknown, the owner and
owner’s address is deemed to be that of the person on file as the owner on the
current or most recent title to the vehicle, boat or trailer.
(Prior Code, § 905.11)
§ 92.66 SUSPENSION OF RESIDENTIAL RENTAL LICENSE.
   Upon issuance of a permanent declaration of public health nuisance, any
residential rental license issued by the City for the site, or any part
thereof, is hereby declared to be immediately suspended pending full compliance
with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 905.12)
§ 92.67 UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL OF POSTINGS.
   It is unlawful for any person, except authorized City personnel, to remove a
temporary or permanent declaration of public health nuisance and/or “Do Not
Enter - Unsafe to Occupy” order from a chemical dump site or a clandestine drug
lab site.
(Prior Code, § 905.13)
§ 92.68 ENTRY ONTO OR INTO SITE.
   While a declaration of public health nuisance for an affected site is in
effect and has been posted at the site, no persons are permitted to be inside
the site, or on the site property without prior written consent of the City’s
Building Official or as otherwise authorized by this subchapter. To confirm
compliance with this subchapter and to execute their duties under this
subchapter, law enforcement officers, the City’s Building Official and any
persons designed by the Building Official may enter onto the site property or
enter into the site at any time while a declaration of public health nuisance
is in effect for the site.
(Prior Code, § 905.14)
§ 92.69 REMOVAL OF PERSONAL PROPERTY FROM THE SITE.
   (A)   While a declaration of public health nuisance for an affected site is
in effect and has been posted at the site, no personal property may be removed
from the site without prior written consent from the City’s Building Official.
   (B)   Consent to remove personal property shall only be granted at the
reasonable discretion of the Building Official and only in cases of hardship
after:
      (1)   A City-approved environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm has
advised the City, in writing, that the item(s) of personal property can be
sufficiently cleaned to remove all harmful contamination; and
      (2)   The owner of the personal property agrees in writing:
         (a)   The owner is aware of the danger of using contaminated property;
         (b)   The owner will thoroughly clean the property to remove all
contamination before the property is used; and
         (c)   The owner releases and agrees to indemnify the City, its staff
and the City Council from all liability to the owner and/or third persons for
injuries or damages caused, or alleged to have been caused, by the contaminated
property.
(Prior Code, § 905.15) (Ord. 2003-06, passed - -)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Definitions
Open Burning
   
93.05   Purposes allowed for open burning
   
93.06   Recreational fire; requirements
   
93.07   Prohibited materials and practices
   
93.08   Burning ban or air quality alert
Open Burn Permit
   
93.15   Permit required for open burning
   
93.16   Permit application for open burning
   
93.17   Permit fees, violations and penalties
   
93.18   Site inspection and notification
   
93.19   Denial of open burning permit
   
93.20   Permit holder responsibility
   
93.21   Revocation of open burning permit
   
93.22   Rules and laws adopted by reference
   
93.23   Permits and fees
   
93.24   Fire inspections and fees
   
93.25   Enforcement
   
93.26   Penalties
   
93.27   Appeals and variances
Fire Lanes
   
93.35   Establishment
   
93.36   Existing fire lane signs
   
93.37   New fire lanes and sign specifications
   
93.38   Maintenance of signs
   
93.39   Unattended vehicles and obstruction prohibitions
   
93.40   Towing authorization
   
93.41   Violation and citation
   
93.42   Violation
   
93.43   Interpretation
   
93.44   Severability
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BURN EVENT SAFETY PLAN. A written prescription for the prescribed fire
including critical elements such as the weather conditions under which the burn
will be conducted, number of personnel and duties of each, and the type and,
amount and placement of equipment needed to safely conduct the burn.
   BURNER. A burn barrel or similar enclosure for burning.
   CONSTRUCTION PERMIT. A permit that allows the applicant to install or modify
systems and equipment for which a permit is required by the MSFC.
   CORPORATION COUNSEL. When used in the MSFC means the attorney for the city.
   FIRE CHIEF. The fire chief employed by the Northfield Area Fire and Rescue
Service.
   FIRE CODE OFFICIAL. The fire chief or the fire chief's designees.
   FIRE DEPARTMENT. The Northfield Area Fire and Rescue Service.
   JOINT POWERS AGREEMENT. The joint powers agreement, by and between the city
of Northfield, the city of Dundas, and the Northfield Rural Fire Protection
District, as the same may be amended from time to time, adopted pursuant to
M.S. § 471.59.
   JURISDICTION. All areas within the corporate limits of the City of Dundas.
   MINNESOTA STATE FIRE CODE, FIRE CODE or MSFC. The Minnesota State Fire Code
adopted pursuant to M.S. § 299F.011, and as modified by Minnesota Rules,
Chapter 7511, and the appendices thereto, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter.
   NORTHFIELD AREA FIRE AND RESCUE SERVICE or NAFRS. The joint powers
organization governed by the NAFRS Board and established by the joint powers
agreement for the purposes of providing fire services, including fire
protection, suppression, prevention, technical rescue, non-transport emergency
medical services and code enforcement for the above-referenced parties within
the fire services area established in the joint powers agreement, including but
not limited to the jurisdiction of the city.
   OPEN FIRE, OPEN BURN OR OPEN BURNING. A fire burning in matter, whether
concentrated or dispersed, which is not contained within a fully enclosed
firebox, structure, or vehicle, and from which the products of combustion are
emitted directly to the open atmosphere without passing through a stack, duct,
or chimney.
   OPEN BURN PERMIT. A permit that allows the applicant to conduct an open burn
pursuant to §§
93.15 to
93.27 of this chapter.
   OPERATIONAL PERMIT. A permit that allows the applicant to conduct an
operation or business for which a permit is required by the MSFC for either:
(a) a prescribed period; or (b) until renewed or revoked.
   PERMIT. Means, but is not limited to, "operational permits," "construction
permits," and "open burn permits."
   PORTABLE OUTDOOR FIREPLACE. A portable, outdoor, solid-fuel-burning
fireplace that may be constructed of steel, concrete, clay or other
noncombustible material. A portable outdoor fireplace may be open in design, or
may be equipped with a small hearth opening and a short chimney or chimney
opening in the top.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire set with approved starter fuel no more than three
feet in height, contained within the border of a RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE using
dry, clean wood; producing little detectable smoke, odor or soot beyond the
property line; for recreational, ceremonial, food preparation or social
purposes; extinguished completely before quitting the occasion; and respecting
weather conditions, neighbors, burning bans and air quality so that nuisance,
health or safety hazards will not be created. No more than one RECREATIONAL
FIRE is allowed on any property at one time.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE.
      (1)   An area of no more than a three-foot diameter circle (measured from
the inside of the fire ring or border); completely surrounded by non-
combustible and non-smoke or odor producing material, either of natural rock,
cement, brick, tile or blocks or ferrous metal only and which area is depressed
below ground, on the ground, or on a raised bed. Included are permanent outdoor
wood burning fireplaces. Burning barrels are not RECREATION FIRE SITES, as
defined herein.
      (2)   RECREATIONAL FIRE SITES shall not be located closer than 25 feet to
any structure.
   STARTER FUELS. Dry, untreated, unpainted, kindling, branches, cardboard or
charcoal fire starter. Paraffin candles and alcohols are permitted as STARTER
FUELS and as aids to ignition only. Propane gas torches or other clean gas
burning devices causing minimal pollution must be used to start an open burn.
   WOOD.
      (1)   Dry, clean fuel only such as twigs, branches, limbs, "presto logs,"
charcoal, cord wood or untreated dimensional lumber;
      (2)   The term does not include wood that is green with leaves or
needles, rotten, wet, oil soaked or treated with paint, glue or preservatives;
and
      (3)   Clean pallets may be used for recreational fires when cut into
three-foot lengths.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023)
OPEN BURNING
§ 93.05 PURPOSES ALLOWED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish permitted categories of open
burn events for residents and farms within the city and to provide for a
permitted process for residential and agricultural open burning, except when
such open burning is defined as a recreational fire or portable outdoor
fireplace as prescribed in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 93.06 RECREATIONAL FIRE; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Fire site. A recreational fire site shall be no more than a three-
foot-diameter circle, measured from the inside of the fire ring or border and
shall be completely surrounded by noncombustible and nonsmoke or odor-producing
material, either of natural rock, cement, brick, tile or block of ferrous metal
only and which area is depressed below ground, on the ground, or on a raised
bed.
   (B)   Burning. A recreational fire may be ignited only with an approved
starter fluid, using dry clean wood; shall produce little detectable smoke,
odor or soot beyond the property line; and shall be conducted with due respect
for weather conditions, neighbors, burning bans, and air quality so that a
nuisance or health or safety hazard will not be created.
    (C)   Recreational fires must be at least 25 feet away from all buildings
or combustible materials. Combustible materials are things such as wood, paper,
and plastics.
   (D)   Conditions which could cause a recreational fire to spread within 25
feet of a structure shall be eliminated prior to ignition.
   (E)   Recreational fires shall be located a minimum of ten feet from LP-Gas
containers that are filled on site by the LP-Gas company.
   (F)   Recreational fires and portable outdoor fireplaces must be constantly
attended until the fire is extinguished.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 93.07 PROHIBITED MATERIALS AND PRACTICES.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of oils, petrol
fuels, rubber, plastics, chemically treated materials, or other materials which
produce excessive or noxious smoke, such as tires; railroad ties; treated,
painted or glued wood; composite shingles; tarpaper; insulation; composition
board; sheetrock; wiring; paint; or paint fillers.
   (B)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of hazardous
waste or salvage operations or open burning of solid waste generated from an
industrial or manufacturing process or from a service or commercial
establishment or building material generated from demolition of any structure.
No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of discarded material
resulting from the handling, processing, storage, preparation, serving or
consumption of food.
   (C)   The burning of any leaves, brush, refuse, or other materials of like
nature is prohibited.
   (D)   No fire shall be allowed to smolder.
   (E)   The use of burners is prohibited under this subchapter.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 93.08 BURNING BAN OR AIR QUALITY ALERT.
   No recreational fire or open burn will be permitted when the city or the
Department of Natural Resources has officially declared a burning ban due to
potentially hazardous fire conditions or when the state pollution control
agency (MPCA) has declared an air quality alert.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023)
OPEN BURN PERMIT
§ 93.15 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   No person shall start or allow any open burning on any property in the city
without first having obtained an open burning permit from the fire chief or the
fire chief's designee, except a permit is not required for any fire which is a
recreational fire or portable outdoor fireplace as defined in this chapter.
Fire training and permanent burn site permits can only be issued by a certified
Department of Natural Resources forest officer.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 93.16 PERMIT APPLICATION FOR OPEN BURNING.
   Open burn permits shall be obtained by making application on a form
prescribed by NAFRS. The permit application shall be presented to the staff
person designated by the fire chief for reviewing and processing the
application.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 93.17 PERMIT FEES, VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   All open burn permits shall require a nonrefundable application fee in an
amount to be set by NAFRS from time to time by resolution, which shall be paid
to NAFRS at the time of application for such permit. Any person who starts or
allows any open burning on any property in the city without first having
obtained a permit as provided in this section shall also incur and shall pay a
penalty in the amount of two times the then-effective permit application fee in
addition to the cost for NAFRS to respond to the fire in an amount to be set by
NAFRS from time to time by resolution. Persons billed by NAFRS for fire service
resulting from a permit violation under this section shall have 30 days to pay
the invoiced amount from the date of the invoice. If the fire service charge is
not paid by that time, it will be considered delinquent and NAFRS shall mail a
notice of delinquency to the fire service recipient. If the fire service
charges remain unpaid for 30 days after the date of the notice of delinquency,
NAFRS will use all practical and reasonable legal means to collect the fire
service charges. The person who received fire services shall be liable for all
collection costs incurred by NAFRS including, but not limited to, reasonable
attorney fees and court costs. If the fire service charges remain unpaid for 30
days after the date of the notice of delinquency, NAFRS may submit the
delinquent charges to the city Finance Director on or before August 15 of each
year in order that the same may be brought to the City Council for
consideration of certifying the unpaid fire service charges to the County
Auditor in the county in which the recipient of the services owns real property
for collection in like manner with property taxes. The County Auditor is
responsible for remitting to the city all charges collected on behalf of the
city under this section. The city must give the property owner notice of its
intent to certify the unpaid fire service charges to taxes prior to the same
being heard by the City Council. Unpaid charges received by the city from the
County Auditor following certification shall be remitted to NAFRS less the
city's costs of certification.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 93.18 SITE INSPECTION AND NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the completed open burn permit application and permit
fee, the fire chief or the fire chief's designee may schedule a preliminary
site inspection to locate the proposed burn site, draft a fire event safety
plan, note special conditions, set dates and times of the permitted burn and
review fire safety considerations.
   (B)   Two days before burning, the permit holder shall notify NAFRS of the
proposed burn day and approximate time of commencement of the burn. The day of
burning, the permit holder shall contact the Rice/Steele County 911 Center to
advise the same of the burn before burning begins.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 93.19 DENIAL OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   If it is established that any criterion for the issuance of an open burn
permit as provided herein is not met, or if during review of the application it
is determined that a practical alternative method of disposal of the material
exists, or a pollution or nuisance condition would result, or if a burn event
safety plan cannot be drafted to the satisfaction of the fire chief, then the
open burn permit application may be denied.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 93.20 PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Prior to starting an open burn, the permit holder shall be responsible
for confirming that no burning ban or air quality alert is in effect.
   (B)   Every open burn event shall be constantly attended by the permit
holder or the permit holder's representative.
   (C)   The open burn site shall have available appropriate communication and
fire suppression equipment as set out in the burn event safety plan.
   (D)   The open burn fire shall be completely extinguished before the permit
holder or the permit holder's representative leaves the site.
   (E)   It is the responsibility of the permit holder to have a valid permit,
as required by this subchapter, available for inspection on the site by the
police department, fire department, or Department of Natural Resources forest
officer.
   (F)   The permit holder is responsible for compliance with and
implementation of all general conditions, special conditions and the burn event
safety plan as established in the permit issued.
   (G)   The permit holder shall be responsible for all costs incurred as a
result of the burn, including but not limited to fire suppression and
administrative fees.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 93.21 REVOCATION OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   The open burn permit is subject to revocation at the discretion of a
Department of Natural Resources forest officer, the fire chief or other
commissioned state fire warden. Reasons for revocation may include but are not
limited to a fire hazard existing or developing during the course of the burn,
pollution or nuisance conditions developing during the course of the burn, or a
fire smoldering with no flame present.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 93.22 RULES AND LAWS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The provisions of M.S. §§ 88.16 to 88.22, as they may be amended from
time to time, and the Minnesota Uniform Fire Code, Minn. Rules Ch. 1510, as
these statutes and rules may be amended from time to time, are hereby adopted
by reference and made a part of this subchapter as if fully set forth at this
point.
   (B)   The Minnesota State Fire Code ("MSFC"), as adopted pursuant to M.S. §
299F.011, and as modified by Minnesota Rules, Chapter 7511, is hereby adopted
by reference, and incorporated in this section as completely as if set out in
full. Except for deletions, modifications or amendments by this section, every
provision contained in the MSFC, together with appendices D and O, is adopted
and made a part of this chapter and shall be known and may be cited as the
"Fire Code" of the city. This section incorporates the MSFC and adopts future
amendments in accordance with M.S. § 645.31, subd. 2.
   (C)   Amendments to the Minnesota State Fire Code. The following shall be
amendments to the Fire Code:
      (1)   Appendix D - Fire apparatus access r oads.
         (a)   Covers access road specifications, locations, turnaround
requirements, and distances from structures.
         (b)   Addresses fire lane designation, signage, and maintenance.
      (2)   Appendix N - Indoor exhibitions and trade shows.
         (a)   Appendix N was created to address the hazards that are
associated with larger, more complex trade shows and exhibitions. Although many
of these requirements are already included in various locations in this code,
some of the more important items, such as requirements for covered booths and
multiple-level booths, are not. The intent is to have the requirements covering
these events in a single location with pointers to other locations within this
code, which makes it easier for those organizing exhibitions and individual
exhibitors who are unfamiliar with the fire code to locate the requirements
that are applicable to them.
      (3)   Appendix O - Fires or barbecues on balconies or patios. This
provision is adopted pursuant to the authority of M.S. § 299F.011, subd. 4, as
it may be amended from time to time, and shall supersede less restrictive
provisions of state law to the contrary.
         (a)   Open flame prohibited. In any structure containing three or more
dwelling units, where dwelling units are configured vertically above or below
other dwelling units, no person shall kindle, maintain, or cause any fire or
open flame on any balcony above ground level, or on any ground floor patio
within 15 feet of a structure.
            1.   Exception. Listed electric or gas-fired barbecue grills that
are permanently mounted and wired or plumbed to the building's gas supply or
electrical system and that maintain a minimum clearance of 18 inches on all
sides, unless listed for lesser clearances, may be installed on balconies and
patios when approved by the chief.
         (b)   Fuel storage prohibited. No person shall store or use any fuel,
barbecue, torch, or other similar heating or lighting chemical or device in the
locations designated in division (C)(1)(a) above.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023; Ord. 2023-04, passed7-10-2023)
§ 93.23 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   Operational permits and construction permits, respectively, as defined
herein shall be required as authorized under the Fire Code and as determined by
the fire chief. This includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Construction permits including plan review for fire protection-
related work.
   (B)   Open burn permits, as defined herein shall be required as authorized
under §
93.16 as determined by the fire chief.
   (C)   A person desiring a permit as required by the Fire Code or this
chapter shall submit an application to the fire chief along with the required
fee as established by NAFRS from time to time.
   (D)   Specific permit types and their fees shall be approved as required by
resolution of the NAFRS Board and will be posted on the NAFRS website.
   (E)   Unless otherwise noted, all permits shall expire one year from the
date of issuance.
   (F)   For any permit required or authorized by the MSFC or this chapter,
except an open burn permit under §§
93.15 to
93.27 of this chapter, the following provisions shall apply:
      (1)   Application. Permit applications must be made to the fire chief on
forms prescribed by NAFRS. All questions asked or information required by the
application forms shall be answered fully and completely by the applicant. The
applicant must comply with applicable laws, regulations, ordinances, and any
additional requirements of NAFRS.
      (2)   Denial. The fire code official may deny any permit application when
the activity for which the permit is sought violates any applicable law,
statute, rule, regulation, or ordinance or is contrary to the public health,
safety, or welfare.
      (3)   Conditions. Any permit may be subject to conditions that protect
the public health, safety and welfare.
      (4)   Permit fee. Upon submission of a permit application, the applicant
must pay a permit fee to NAFRS.
      (5)   Revocation. A permit is subject to revocation by the fire code
official for failure to comply with permit conditions or failure to comply with
any other applicable law, rule, regulation, or ordinance.
   (G)   The building official and the fire chief shall act as a committee to
determine and specify, after giving affected persons an opportunity to be
heard, any new materials, processes or occupancies which will require permits,
in addition to those now enumerated in the MSFC or this chapter. The fire code
official will post such list of required permits on the NAFRS website and
distribute copies thereof to interested persons.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023; Ord. 2023-04, passed 7-10-2023)
State law reference: 
   Adoption by reference, M.S. § 299M.04 and Minn. R. part 7512.2800 Municipal
Permit Program.
§ 93.24 FIRE INSPECTIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Purpose. NAFRS, in order to ensure the health, safety and public
welfare of the structures, buildings, homes, and businesses located in the city
(collectively the "facilities"), shall inspect existing, redeveloped and newly
constructed facilities in accordance with the Fire Code, the policies
established by NAFRS, and city code.
   (B)   Fire inspection and permit fees. Fire inspection fees for all
facilities located in the city, including but not limited to new construction,
additions, redevelopment and alterations where a building permit is required,
shall be in an amount to be set by NAFRS as a fee schedule from time to time.
This includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Inspections of fire protection-related work.
   (C)   Frequency of inspections for facilities. NAFRS shall establish a
schedule at the discretion of the NAFRS Board by which facilities are to be
inspected in the city. The schedule shall designate the frequency of
inspections.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023; Ord. 2023-04, passed 7-10-2023)
§ 93.25 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The fire chief of the Northfield Area Fire and Rescue Services (NAFRS)
is appointed the fire code official for the City of Dundas.
   (B)   The MSFC and any state statutes and city ordinances pertaining to fire
and life safety shall be enforced by the fire code official. The fire code
official may issue an order to any person who violates the Fire Code or any
provisions of this chapter of the city code. The person to whom the order is
directed must comply with the order no later than the deadline for compliance
specified in the order unless an appeal is filed in accordance with this
chapter.
   (C)   The City Administrator, building official, and police chief, along
with their delegates, are also authorized, in the event the fire chief does not
accordingly act, to enforce the provisions of the MSFC and this chapter within
the city.
   (D)   This chapter may be enforced pursuant to Dundas City Code, Chapter 10.
The city may simultaneously pursue criminal, civil, administrative, and/or any
other legal or equitable remedy available to the city for violations of this
chapter.
   (E)   NAFRS code enforcement shall work in concert with the city building
official and other authorized city staff.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 93.26 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Pursuant to M.S. § 299F.011, subd. 6, and Dundas City Code,
Chapter 10, a person who violates a provision of the Minnesota State Fire Code
or this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each day a violation continues after notice thereof shall constitute a
separate offense. Each act constitutes a separate offense.
   (C)   No person shall be convicted for violating the Minnesota State Fire
Code or this chapter unless the person shall have been given notice of the
violation in writing and reasonable time to comply. The notice must contain a
statement explaining the right to appeal the order(s).
§ 93.27 APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   Appeal; application for variance.  A person may appeal an order of the
fire chief, or apply for a variance from the order, by filing a written notice
of appeal or a written variance application with the fire chief within ten days
after the date of the issuance of the order. Additionally, whenever the fire
chief disapproves an application, including but not limited to variances to the
Fire Code, or refuses to grant a permit applied for, or when the fire chief
issues an order enforcing the Fire Code and the aggrieved party claims that the
Fire Code does not apply, or that the true intent and meaning of the Fire Code
have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the aggrieved party may appeal
from the decision or order of the fire chief to the NAFRS Board within ten days
of the fire chief's decision or order. All appeals specified in this section
shall be made in writing and delivered to the fire chief for hearing by the
NAFRS Board. An aggrieved party who does not appeal within the time specified
shall be deemed to have waived all right to appeal.
   (B)   Hearing. A hearing must be held within 30 days after receipt by the
fire chief of a timely appeal or variance application. The hearing must be held
before the NAFRS Board. The Minnesota rules of evidence need not be strictly
followed, and the records of the fire chief must be considered without further
foundation.
   (C)   Decision.  The NAFRS Board must issue a written decision within 30
days after the hearing, affirming, modifying, or overruling the fire chief's
decision and approving or denying the variance application. The decision must
be mailed or delivered to the person who filed the appeal or variance
application, the fire chief, and the City Clerk. The decision of the NAFRS
Board is the final decision of the city.
   (D)   Variance considerations and decision standard. In reviewing a variance
application to the Fire Code or when considering an appeal of an order of the
fire chief for variances from the Fire Code, the fire chief and the NAFRS
Board, as applicable, shall take into consideration the benefit to be obtained
by complying with the fire chief's decision or order and the effect on
affordable housing, provided that the spirit of the Fire Code is complied with
and public safety secured. In addition, a variance from the minimum
requirements in the Fire Code may be granted by the fire chief, or the NAFRS
Board upon a timely appeal of the fire chief's decision, as applicable, only if
there is substantial compliance with the provisions of the Fire Code, the
safety of the public and occupants of buildings will not be jeopardized, and
undue hardship will result to the applicant unless the requested variance is
granted. in size and shall otherwise comply with the standards from time to
time established by the fire chief for such signs, subject to review and
approval by the city engineer. The symbol for "No Parking" may also be used
with the words "Fire Lane" below it. The fire chief may recommend other styles
of fire lane signs for review and approval by the city engineer.
   (E)   State fire marshal. No appeal to the state fire marshal for a variance
from orders issued by the fire chief or the NAFRS Board from the Fire Code
shall be accepted until the applicant has first made application to the fire
chief and the NAFRS Board and the same have acted on the application. The state
fire marshal shall consider any decisions or recommendations of the fire chief
and NAFRS Board. Any person aggrieved by a decision made by the state fire
marshal under M.S. § 299F.011 may proceed before the state fire marshal as with
a contested case in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act.
   (F)   Liability. Pursuant to M.S. § 299F.011, subd. 5a, the NAFRS Board is
not liable for damages in connection with granting variances, abatements,
denials, or modifications of orders from the Fire Code that are made in good
faith.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023).
FIRE LANES
§ 93.35 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The NAFRS Board shall identify and recommend fire lanes on public or private
property as may be necessary to comply with the Fire Code and in order that the
travel of fire equipment may not be interfered with and that access to fire
hydrants or buildings may not be obstructed. The recommended fire lanes shall
be subject to review and approval by the city engineer.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 93.36 EXISTING FIRE LANE SIGNS.
   Fire lanes in existence prior to the effective date of this subchapter shall
be permitted to remain using existing signs so long as such signs are
maintained in good repair and condition. If the fire chief determines that such
signs are not maintained as required in this chapter, the fire chief shall
require and order signage as provided in this section, subject to review and
approval by the city engineer.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 93.37 NEW FIRE LANES AND SIGN SPECIFICATIONS.
   Fire lanes established after the effective date of this subchapter or
existing fire lanes changed after the effective date of this subchapter, shall
be marked by signs, not more than 75 feet apart, bearing the words, "No
Parking, Fire Lane" with the first and last sign marking the limits of the fire
lane. The signs shall have red letters and a red border on a white background,
shall be at least 12 inches by 18 inches in size and shall otherwise comply
with the standards from time to time established by the fire chief for such
signs, subject to review and approval by the city engineer. The symbol for "No
Parking" may also be used with the words "Fire Lane" below it. The fire chief
may recommend other styles of fire lane signs for review and approval by the
city engineer.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 93.38 MAINTENANCE OF SIGNS.
   When a fire lane is on public property or public right-of-way, the signs
shall be erected and maintained by the city, and when on private property, they
shall be erected by the owner at the owner's expense within 30 days after the
owner has been notified of the order from the fire chief. After these signs are
erected, they shall be maintained by the owner at the owner's expense. After
the signs are erected, no person shall park a vehicle in or otherwise occupy or
obstruct the fire lane.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 93.39 UNATTENDED VEHICLES AND OBSTRUCTION PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall leave a vehicle unattended and occupying or otherwise
obstructing a fire lane.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 93.40 TOWING AUTHORIZATION.
   Whenever a police officer finds a vehicle unattended and occupying or
obstructing a fire lane, the police officer is authorized to provide for
removal and impoundment of the vehicle at the expense of the owner of the
vehicle.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 93.41 VIOLATION AND CITATION.
   Violations of this section shall be governed and enforced under
Chapter 10 of this code. Citations shall be issued to vehicles parked in fire
lanes defined by this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 93.42 VIOLATION.
   No person shall be cited for violating this subchapter unless such person
shall have been given notice of the violation in writing and have had a
reasonable time to comply.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 93.43 INTERPRETATION.
   In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this subchapter and the
Fire Code, as adopted by this chapter, the most stringent provision shall
apply. Provided, however, that no provision of this chapter shall be
interpreted to exceed the provisions of the Minnesota State Building Code.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 93.44 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is for any reason
held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-27-2023)
CHAPTER 94: USE OF DUNDAS CITY PARK LANDS
Section
   
94.01   Park hours
   
94.02   Baseball field lighting costs
   
94.03   Parking
   
94.04   Park rental
   
94.05   Disfiguration and removal
   
94.06   Removal of natural resources
   
94.07   Trees, shrubbery, lawns
   
94.08   Sanitation, refuse, trash and ash disposal
   
94.09   Recreational activities
   
94.10   Behavior
   
94.11   Alcoholic beverages
§ 94.01 PARK HOURS.
   No person shall be present in, occupy or use any park except during the
hours of 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m., except Memorial Park Baseball field which may
be lit until 11:00 p.m. on Fridays and Saturdays from the last weekend of April
through Labor Day weekend. The City Council may extend the hour of closing upon
written request and upon so doing, shall notify the Dundas Police Department of
said extension.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 94.02 BASEBALL FIELD LIGHTING COSTS.
   The Dundas Baseball Association shall be responsible for the cost of
lighting the baseball field, all concession stands and any other electric
service used exclusively for the Dundas Baseball Association.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 94.03 PARKING.
   No person in a park shall drive any vehicle on any area except the park
roads or parking areas or such other areas as may on occasion be specifically
designated by the City or the Dundas Baseball Association. Vehicles not parked
in designated areas are subject to fines.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 94.04 PARK RENTAL.
   Any person or group wishing to reserve any park shelter for a specific date
shall contact the Dundas City Hall. A deposit for reserving the park shelter
and a user fee shall be as established in §
34.01 of the Dundas City Code. The City Administrator may allow limited
consumption of alcohol during use of the park shelter pursuant to a rental
agreement. The park user fee shall be applied to the cost of maintenance of the
parks and park shelters. The deposit shall be returned after the park, park
shelter, and bathrooms are inspected for cleanliness and damage. Any expenses
incurred by the City for repairs, replacement of missing or damaged equipment,
furnishings or keys, shall be deducted from the deposit.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 94.05 DISFIGURATION AND REMOVAL.
   No person in a park shall willfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper
with, or displace or remove any buildings, bridges, tables, benches,
fireplaces, railings, paving or paved materials, water lines or other public
utilities or parts or appurtenances thereof, signs, notices, or place cards
whether temporary or permanent, monuments, stakes, posts, or other structures
or equipment, facilities or park property or appurtenances whatsoever, either
real or personal.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 94.06 REMOVAL OF NATURAL RESOURCES.
   No person in a park shall dig, remove or carry away beach sand, whether
submerged or not, or any soil, rock, stones, trees, shrubs or plants, down-
timber or other wood materials, or make any excavation by tool, equipment,
blasting or other means or agency, without permission of the City Administrator
or representative of the City Council.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 94.07 TREES, SHRUBBERY, LAWNS.
   No person in a park shall damage, cut, carve, transplant, or remove any tree
or plant, or pick the flowers or seeds, or any tree or plant. Nor shall any
person attach any rope, wire, or other contrivance to any plant or tree. A
person shall not dig in or otherwise disturb grass areas, or in any other way
injure or impair the natural beauty or usefulness of any area.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 94.08 SANITATION, REFUSE, TRASH AND ASH DISPOSAL.
   No person in a park shall have brought in or shall dump, deposit or leave
any bottles, broken glass, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste garbage, or
refuse or other trash. No such refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters in
or contiguous to any park, or left anywhere on the grounds thereof, but shall
be placed in the proper receptacles where these are provided; where receptacles
are not so provided, all such rubbish or waste shall be carried away from the
park by the person responsible for its presence, and properly disposed of
elsewhere.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 94.09 RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Firearms. No person in a park shall use firearms of any description,
or air-rifles, spring guns, bow and arrows, slings or any other forms of
weapons potentially inimical to wildlife and dangerous to human safety, or any
instrument that can be loaded with blank cartridges, or any kind of trapping
device. Shooting into park areas from beyond park boundaries is forbidden. This
section shall not apply to peace officers in performance of their duties.
   (B)   Picnic facilities and use. Guaranteed availability of the shelters is
by reservation only. No person shall attempt to use more facilities than are
necessary, to the detriment of other potential users. The City Administrator or
authorized representative shall have the authority to regulate the activities
in such areas when necessary to prevent congestion and to secure maximum use
for the comfort and convenience of all visitors. Visitors shall comply with any
directions given to achieve this end.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 94.10 BEHAVIOR.
   (A)   Fires. No person in a park shall start or maintain any fire, except in
barbeque pits, charcoal grills, fireplaces or any other location designated by
the City. No person shall drop, throw or otherwise scatter lighted matches,
burning cigarettes or cigars, tobacco paper or other inflammable material,
within any park area or any highway, road or street abutting or continuous
thereto.
   (B)   Disorderly conduct. No person in a park shall engage in boisterous,
threatening, abusive, insulting or indecent language, or engage in brawling or
fighting or in any disorderly conduct or behavior tending reasonable to arouse
alarm, anger, or resentment in others, knowing or having reasonable grounds to
know that such language or behavior will, or will tend to alarm, anger or
disturb others or provoke an assault or breach of peace.
   (C)   Animals in the park.
      (1)   Leashed or other-restrained. No person in a park shall permit an
animal in a park unless at all times the animal is on a leash or similar type
of restraining device not greater than six feet in length.
      (2)   Animal waste. Any person in the control of an animal in a City park
shall be responsible to pick up any animal waste created by said animal. Animal
waste shall be placed in a plastic bag or other container and taken with the
person in control of the animal.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 94.11 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   Alcohol use in City parks may be allowed in accordance with the provisions
of City Code §
112.05.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 2-28-2022)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
114.   TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING SERVICES
      
115.   TOBACCO REGULATIONS
      
116.   GAMBLING
      
117.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
118.   CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain businesses
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN BUSINESSES.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses or professions for
which licenses are required by this Title XI or by any other ordinance of the
City or provision of this code without first applying for and obtaining a
license from the City Clerk-Treasurer or other duly authorized issuing
authority.
(Prior Code, § 1100.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the City Clerk-Treasurer or other authorized
official in writing upon forms to be furnished by him or her and shall contain:
      (1)   The applicant’s full name, address and telephone number, and the
full name of each officer, partner or business associate, if applicable;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and principal place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for the preceding five years;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise, goods or services to be sold;
      (7)   If a motor vehicle is to be used, a full description of the motor
vehicle, including the make, model, year, color, license number and vehicle
registration (VIN) number of the vehicle; and
      (8)   Other information concerning the applicant and his or her business
as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Any change in the information required by division (A) above must be
reported to the City Clerk-Treasurer or other authorized official within 14
days of that change.
   (C)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing on the basis of the original application, unless otherwise provided.
However, if a request for renewal is not submitted to the City Clerk-Treasurer
or other authorized official within 21 days after the date of expiration for
the preceding license, the applicant must fill out an original application.
   (D)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
(Prior Code, § 1100.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon receipt of an application for a license, accompanied by the proper fee
if approval by another officer or department is not required, the City Clerk-
Treasurer shall deposit the fee in the General Fund of the City and issue to
the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1100.03)
§ 110.04 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31
of the year issued.
   (B)   However, at any time after December 1, licenses may be issued for the
next calendar year.
   (C)   Unless otherwise specified, the full annual fee will be required of
licensees irrespective of the date of issuance of the license.
(Prior Code, § 1100.04)
§ 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business and, unless otherwise provided, no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
(Prior Code, § 1100.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the premises the license certificate. Other licensees
shall carry their licenses at all times and, whenever requested by any officer
or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
(Prior Code, § 1100.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be suspended or revoked by the City Clerk-Treasurer or
City Council at any time for the following reasons:
      (1)   For conditions or considerations which, had they existed at the
time of issuance, would have been valid grounds for its denial;
      (2)   For any misrepresentation of a material fact in the application
discovered after issuance of the license;
      (3)   For any misrepresentation or materially false statement made in the
course of carrying on the trade, business or profession;
      (4)   For violation of any provision of this chapter or other federal,
state or municipal law or ordinance relating to the operation of the business
or enterprise for which the license has been issued; or
      (5)   Upon conviction of a licensee for any federal, state or municipal
law or ordinance involving the creation of a nuisance, a breach of the peace,
interference with the rights of property owners or any other offense
constituting a threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
   (B)   The suspension or revocation shall become effective upon notice served
upon the licensee. The notice shall contain a written summary of the reasons
for the suspension or revocation and a statement concerning the right to appeal
the decision. The notice shall be delivered by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the address given on the licensee’s application.
(Prior Code, § 1100.07)
§ 110.08 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   In case any applicant has been denied a license by the City Clerk-Treasurer,
or if his or her license has been suspended or revoked by the City Clerk-
Treasurer, the applicant or licensee shall within ten business days have the
right to appeal to the City Council from the denial, suspension or revocation.
Notice of appeal shall be filed in writing with the City Clerk-Treasurer or
other authorized official, the Mayor shall call a special meeting of the City
Council for the purpose of holding the hearing unless a regular meeting of the
City Council will occur within the 21-day period, and who shall fix the time
and place for a hearing which shall be held not later than 21 days thereafter.
Notice of appeal shall be filed in writing with the City Clerk-Treasurer.
Unless a regular meeting of the City Council at which the appeal can be heard
is scheduled within 21 days after receiving the notice of appeal, the Mayor
shall schedule a special meeting of the City Council for the hearing within the
21-day period. Three members of the City Council shall constitute a quorum to
hear the appeal. The appellant may appear and be heard in person or by counsel.
If, after hearing, a majority of the members of the City Council present at the
meeting declare in favor of the applicant, the license shall be issued or fully
reinstated as the case may be; otherwise, the suspension or revocation shall
become final.
(Prior Code, § 1100.08)
CHAPTER 111: COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
111.01   [Reserved]
   
111.02   Circuses, carnivals, shows and other entertainment
   
111.03   Dance halls
   
111.04   Regulations for temporary cannabis events
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 [RESERVED].
§ 111.02 CIRCUSES, CARNIVALS, SHOWS AND OTHER ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   (a)   Each person, desiring to conduct, stage or give a circus,
carnival, theatrical exhibition, public show, athletic game except amateur
baseball, or other entertainment, for which there is a charge for admission,
shall first obtain a license and pay the license fee or fees as established by
§
34.01 of this code of ordinances.
         (b)   Local school entertainment, charitable non-profit organizations,
lecture courses and lectures on historic, literary or scientific subjects are
not subject to the provisions of this section; provided that, the entertainment
is not for profit.
      (2)   In addition to any other requirements, the applicant for a license
shall give at least one week’s notice in writing to the City Clerk-Treasurer or
other authorized official, stating the dates of the performances and the
location at which the performances are to be presented. The City Clerk-
Treasurer shall give his or her consent to the issuance of the license if he or
she deems that the location is suitable for the purpose; that it will properly
accommodate the patrons; that the nature of the performance or exhibition does
not pose a threat to the health, safety or general welfare of the public; and
that the use of the location will not create too great a burden upon the Police
Department or the Fire Department.
      (3)   No circus, carnival, theatrical exhibition, public show, athletic
game or other entertainment shall be given for more than two consecutive days,
except in cases where the City Council, by resolution, allows a longer period,
or where the exhibition is to be conducted on municipal property and the use
thereof for a longer period shall have been approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Deposit required.
      (1)   At the time application for a license is made, where use of
municipal grounds is contemplated, the applicant shall deposit with the City
Clerk-Treasurer or other designated municipal official a cash bond in an amount
to be determined by the City Council, conditioned upon the restoration and
cleaning up of the grounds in a manner satisfactory to the Mayor. In the event
the grounds are restored and cleaned up properly following the exhibition, the
deposit shall be returned; otherwise, the same shall be forfeited to the City
to the extent of actual costs to the City for restoration and cleaning up of
the grounds.
      (2)   No licensee shall fail to restore or clean up the grounds upon
which the circus, carnival or other entertainment has taken place.
   (C)   License fee for public entertainment or exhibition. The fee for the
license shall be in an amount as established in §
34.01 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1101.02)
§ 111.03 DANCE HALLS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CABARET. Any room, place or space wherein intoxicating liquor is sold
pursuant to a valid on-sale liquor license and where members of the public are
allowed to dance.
      PUBLIC DANCE. Any dance wherein the public may participate and admission
is charged, either directly or indirectly, but shall not include, when
conducted upon its own premises, a dance sponsored by any religious, fraternal,
charitable or educational institution or organization.
      PUBLIC DANCE HALL. Any room, place or space open to public patronage for
private gain, in which dancing, wherein the public may participate, is carried
on and to which admission may be had by the public by payment either directly
or indirectly of an admission fee or price for dancing, excepting a cabaret, as
defined herein.
   (B)   License. It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation,
organization or association to conduct a public dance or operate a public dance
hall or cabaret in the City, unless the person shall previously have obtained a
license as hereinafter provided in this section.
   (C)   Crowd control. In any of the three categories listed in division (E)
below, if the dance floor exceeds 1,000 square feet or the capacity of more
than 300 people is possible, at least one uniformed law enforcement officer
shall be on duty from the beginning of the dance until one-half hour after
closing.
   (D)   Applying.
      (1)   An applicant for any such license shall pay the appropriate license
fee with his or her application. Any holder of a valid cabaret license under
this section shall not be required to apply for and obtain a separate dance
hall permit or license.
      (2)   No license under this section shall be issued to any person
convicted of a violation of any law or ordinance relating to dances, dance
halls or cabarets within a period of one year following the conviction.
      (3)   The Council shall consider and investigate each license application
for a dance hall or cabaret and may grant or refuse to grant the license. In
the event the Council shall grant the license, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall
issue license to the applicant which shall be valid for one year from the date
of issuance.
   (E)   Fees. The Council shall establish the amount of the license fees for
the following licenses under §
34.01 of this code of ordinances:
      (1)   Temporary public dance license;
      (2)   Annual dance hall license; and
      (3)   Annual cabaret license.
(Prior Code, § 1101.06) Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of City to adopt state statutes by reference, see M.S. § 471.62
§ 111.04 REGULATIONS FOR TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENTS.
   (A)   Permit required. No person or entity shall hold a temporary cannabis
event unless:
      (1)   The person or entity has been issued a cannabis event organizer
license from the Office of Cannabis Management; and
      (2)   A permit for the temporary cannabis event is first approved and
issued by the City.
   (B)   Permit fee. A permit fee, as established in the City’s fee schedule,
shall be charged to applicants for temporary cannabis events.
   (C)   Application submittal and review. The City of Dundas shall require an
application for temporary cannabis events.
      (1)   An applicant for a retail registration shall fill out an
application form, as provided by the City. Said form shall include, but is not
limited to:
         (a)   Full name of the property owner and applicant; and
         (b)   Address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant.
      (2)   The applicant shall include with the form:
         (a)   The application fee as required in division (B); and
         (b)   A copy of the applicant’s cannabis event license application,
submitted to the Office of Cannabis Management pursuant to M.S. § 342.39, subd.
2.
   (D)   The application shall be submitted to the City Clerk, or other
designee, for review. If the City Clerk or designee determines that a submitted
application is incomplete, the City Clerk shall return the application to the
applicant with the notice of deficiencies.
   (E)   Once an application is considered complete, the City Clerk or designee
shall inform the applicant as such, process the application fees, and schedule
review by the City Council for approval or denial of the application. An
application that raises public health, safety, or welfare concerns associated
with the proposed temporary cannabis event may be denied by the City Council.
      (1)   An application fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
      (2)   A temporary cannabis event shall meet the following standards:
         (a)   May be held only in the B-2, Highway Commercial District, and in
the B-3, General Commercial District;
         (b)   Shall last no longer than four days;
         (c)   Shall only be held between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m.;
         (d)   Shall not include any on-site consumption of any cannabis
product, as such is defined in M.S. § 342.01;
         (e)   Shall not be held on public property; and
         (f)   Shall not be held at a location within 1,000 feet from any
school or within 500 feet from any attraction within a public park that is
regularly used by minors, such as playgrounds, athletic facilities, splash
pads, and beaches.
      (3)   An application for a temporary cannabis event that meets the
requirements of this division (E) shall be approved.
      (4)   An application for a temporary cannabis event that does not meet
the requirements of this division (E) shall be denied. The City Clerk shall
notify the applicant of the standards not met and basis for denial.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of any law or ordinance relating to dances, per §
111.03 of this chapter, shall be grounds for revocation of any license issued
under §
111.03 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1101.06)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
112.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
112.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
112.03   Definitions
   
112.04   Nudity on licensed premises prohibited
   
112.05   Consumption in public places
   
112.06   Licenses; applications, fees, investigations
   
112.07   Types of intoxicating liquor licenses
   
112.08   Types of 3.2% malt liquor licenses
   
112.09   Conditions of licensing
   
112.10   Hours and days of sale
   
112.11   Sale and possession on public sidewalks
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as they may be amended from time to
time, are hereby adopted by reference and are made a part of this chapter as if
set out in full.
   (B)   It is the intention of the City Council that all future amendments to
M.S. Ch. 340A are adopted.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 8-22-2011)
§ 112.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the possession, sale and consumption of alcoholic
beverages within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Ch. 340A, as they
may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 8-22-2011)
§ 112.03 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the words, combination of
words, terms and phrases used in this chapter shall have the meanings set forth
in M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and in this section.
In addition to the definitions in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended from
time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this chapter.
   BREW PUB. A brewer who also holds one or more retail on-sale licenses and
who manufactures fewer than 3,500 barrels of malt liquor in a year, at any one
licensed premises, the entire production of which is solely for consumption on
tap on any licensed premises owned by the brewer, or for off-sale from those
licensed premises as permitted in M.S. § 340A.24, subd. 2, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   INTEREST. Any pecuniary interest in the ownership (of 10% or greater),
operation, management or profits of a retail liquor establishment, and a person
who receives money from time to time directly or indirectly from a licensee, in
the absence of consideration and excluding gifts or donations, has a pecuniary
interest in the license.
   LIQUOR. Without modification by the words “intoxicating” or “3.2% malt”,
includes both intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor.
   RESTAURANT. Includes a food and beverage establishment licensed by the
state.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 8-22-2011; Ord. 2015-01, passed 6-29-2015)
§ 112.04 NUDITY ON LICENSED PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council finds it in the best interests of the public
health, safety and general welfare of the people of the City that certain types
of activities are prohibited as provided in this section upon the premises of
licensed liquor, wine and 3.2% malt liquor establishments so as to best protect
and assist the owners and operators and employees of these premises, as well as
patrons and the public in general.
      (2)   The Council also finds that the standard set forth in this section
reflect the prevailing community standards of the City.
      (3)   The provisions of this section are intended to prevent harm
stemming from the physical immediacy and combination of alcohol, nudity and
sex.
      (4)   The Council also intends to prevent any subliminal endorsement of
sexual harassment or activities likely to lead to the possibility of various
criminal conducts, including prostitution, sexual assault and disorderly
conduct.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breast and genitals covered with a non-transparent material.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 8-22-2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
    No person shall consume intoxicating liquor, wine or 3.2% malt liquor or
have in his or her possession an open container containing an alcoholic
beverage in a public park, on any public street, sidewalk, parking lot or alley
or in any public place other than on the premises of an establishment licensed
under this chapter, unless the City Council has authorized the consumption in a
designated area in advance by Council resolution; or the City Administrator has
given prior written approval pursuant to a park shelter rental agreement.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 8-22-2011; Ord. 2022-02, passed 2-28-2022)  Penalty, see
§
112.99
§ 112.06 LICENSES; APPLICATIONS, FEES, INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   License required.
      (1)   It is unlawful for an person directly or indirectly, on any
pretense or by any device, to manufacture, import, sell, exchange, barter,
dispose or keep for sale any intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor as part of
a commercial transaction, whether directly or indirectly, without first having
obtained a license therefor.
      (2)   The number of on-sale licenses shall be limited to the number
allowed under M.S. § 340A.413, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   Not more than five off-sale licenses shall be granted at any one
time.
   (B)   Applications for license.
      (1)   General. Every application for a license issued under this chapter,
new or renewal shall be on a form provided by the City. The application form
shall be completed by the applicant to the satisfaction of the City. If the
application form is not completed to the satisfaction of the City, the form and
the application fee shall be returned by the City to the applicant. Every
application shall state the name of the applicant, the applicant’s date of
birth, driver’s license number or other government approved identification
(subject to review and approval of the City), with references as the City may
require, the type of license applied for the business in connection with which
the proposed license will operate and its location, a description of the
premises, whether the applicant is the owner and operator of the business, who
will manage the business, how long the applicant has been in that business at
that place and any other information as the City may require from time to time.
An application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall be in the form
prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall also contain the
information required by this section. The form shall be verified and filed with
the City. No person shall make a false statement in an application.
      (2)   Financial responsibility. No license may be issued, maintained or
renewed unless the applicant demonstrates proof of financial responsibility as
required by M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, with
regard to liability under M.S. § 340A.801, as it may be amended from time to
time. The proof shall be approved by the City Council and filed with the
Commissioner of Public Safety.
   (C)   License fees.
      (1)   Fee. The annual fee for all licenses shall be established by §
34.01 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Time of payment. All license fees shall be paid in full at the time
of filing the application for a license under this chapter.
      (3)   Term; pro rata fee. All license fees shall expire on June 30 of
each year. Each license shall be issued for a period of one year; except that,
if a portion of the license year has elapsed when the application is made, a
license may be issued for the remainder of the year for a pro rata fee. In
computing the fee, any unexpired fraction of a month shall be counted as one
month.
      (4)   Refunds. Pro rata refunds of license fees shall be permitted as
authorized by M.S. § 340A.408, subd.5, as it may be amended from time to time;
except that, no part of the investigation fee is refundable.
      (5)   Failure to pay. Failure to pay any required license fee
automatically terminates the license and it may only be reinstated after a
hearing before the Council.
      (6)   Changes in fee. Any change of a license fee shall take effect
immediately for new licenses, but for renewal licenses, the fee shall take
effect at the expiration of the current license year in which the new fee was
approved.
   (D)   Investigation.
      (1)   The Council shall cause an investigation to be made of all the
representations set forth in a license application under this chapter. Every
new or renewal application or application for transfer of a license shall be
referred to the City’s Police Department for investigation of each individual
or person having any interest in the license.
      (2)   The Police Department shall make necessary inquiry and list all
violations of federal and state law or municipal ordinance, including verified
complaints that occurred at the establishment being investigated while under
the same ownership. The findings and comments of the investigation shall be
reported to the City Administrator, who shall order or conduct additional
investigations as are deemed necessary or as the Council directs.
      (3)   Each application for a new license or renewal of a previously
issued license shall be investigated as is deemed necessary by the Fire Chief
and/or Building Official to establish that the business operation and structure
to be licensed is in full compliance with all building and fire codes, laws and
regulations of the state and the City. No license shall be issued until the
proposed operation and premises is found to be in full compliance with building
and fire codes, laws and regulations.
   (E)   Granting license.
      (1)   Persons and places ineligible. No license shall be granted to or
held by any person or issued for any place or business that is ineligible for
such a license under state law. The City Council shall not grant a license
until the premises at issue has received a certificate of occupancy.
      (2)   Hearing. No license shall be granted until a public hearing shall
have been conducted by the Council at least ten days after published notice in
the official newspaper, unless the license shall be a renewal of a license
previously granted at the same location to the same licensee. The City Council
shall give an opportunity at a regular or special meeting of the Council to any
person to be heard for or against the granting of a license.
      (3)   Council discretion. The Council, in its sound discretion, may
either grant or deny the application for any license or for the transfer or
renewal of any license. No applicant has a right to a license under this
chapter.
   (F)   Transfer of intoxicating liquor or wine license.
      (1)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant and for the
premises described in the application. No license may be transferred to another
person or place without City Council approval. Any transfer of stock of a
corporate licensee is deemed a transfer of the license. In all cases where the
approval of the Council is required, a new application, new investigation, new
license fee and a new processing pursuant to this chapter is required. The
failure to obtain prior Council approval or to produce books or other records
in compliance with this chapter is grounds for immediate revocation of the
license.
      (2)   Each corporate licensee having a change in ownership of 10% or more
of the stock of the corporation shall report to the Clerk-Treasurer within ten
days prior to each and any proposed change of legal ownership or beneficial
interest in any of the shares of stock.
         (a)   The report shall be in writing and list all shareholders, their
age, occupation, residence address and the number of shares held by each,
whether individually or for the benefit of others.
         (b)   The report shall include all powers of attorney for proxies
granted that relate to the voting of the corporate shares of stock.
   (G)   Transfer of 3.2% malt liquor license. A 3.2% malt liquor license is
non-transferable with regard to the licensee or location of premises licensed.
   (H)   Suspension and revocation.
      (1)   The City Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60
days or revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to
comply with any applicable statute, regulation or ordinance relating to liquor.
Neither the charging of a criminal violation nor a criminal conviction is
required in order for the Council to suspend or revoke a license. Except in
cases of lapse of proof of financial responsibility, no suspension or
revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded an
opportunity for a hearing pursuant to M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.69, the
Administrative Procedures Act, as they may be amended from time to time. The
Council may act as the hearing body, or it may contract with the state’s Office
of Administrative Hearings or other appropriate agency for a Hearing Officer.
      (2)   Lapse of required dram shop insurance or bond, or withdrawal of
required deposit of cash or securities, shall affect an immediate suspension of
any license pursuant to this chapter without any action of the City Council.
Notice of cancellation, lapse of a current liquor liability policy or bond, or
withdrawal of deposited cash or securities shall also constitute notice to the
licensee to the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license
who has received notice of lapse of required insurance or bond, or withdrawal
of a required deposit, or of suspension or revocation of a license, may request
a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing to the Clerk-Treasurer,
a hearing shall be granted within ten days or a longer period as may be
requested. Any suspension under this division (H)(2) shall continue until the
City Council determines that the financial responsibility requirement of this
chapter has again been met.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 8-22-2011)
§ 112.07 TYPES OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR LICENSES.
   (A)   License categories. Licenses for intoxicating liquor shall be of the
following categories, which license shall be granted only for the purposes
permitted by state statutes and limited by this chapter:
      (1)   On-sale intoxicating liquor, which may be issued only to
restaurants, hotels, bowling centers, clubs and exclusive liquor stores and
shall permit the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages on the licensed
premises only. Club licenses may be issued only with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety;
      (2)   On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of
Public Safety: to restaurants that have facilities for seating at least 25
guests at one time and meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 5, as it may
be amended from time to time; to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which
meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.401, subd. 1, as it may be amended from time
to time; and to theaters which meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404(b), as it
may be amended from time to time. The holder of an on-sale wine license who
also holds an on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license is authorized to sell malt
liquor with the content over 3.2% (strong beer) without an additional license;
      (3)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued
only to a restaurant, bowling center, club or hotel which has a seating
capacity of at least 30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor
license and which serves liquor in conjunction with the service of food. The
hours for Sunday sales shall be as allowed under M.S. § 340A.504, as it may be
amended from time to time;
      (4)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor, which may be issued only to exclusive
liquor stores;
      (5)   Brew pub on-sale intoxicating liquor or on sale 3.2% malt liquor
licenses, which may be issued to a brew pub for a restaurant operated in the
place of manufacture;
      (6)   Brew pub off-sale licenses, which may be issued to a brew pub that
holds an on-sale license, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Safety, for off-sale of malt liquor produced and packaged on the licensed
premises. Off-sale of malt liquor shall be limited to the legal hours for off-
sale at exclusive liquor stores and the malt liquor sold must be removed from
the premises before the applicable off-sale closing time at exclusive liquor
stores. Packaging of malt liquor for off-sale must comply with M.S. § 340A.285,
as it may be amended from time to time;
      (7)   Small-brewer off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be
issued to a brewer licensed under M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6, clause (c), (i) or
(j), as they may be amended from time to time, for off-sale of malt liquor at
its licensed premises that has been produced and packaged by the brewer. The
license must be approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety. Off-sale of malt
liquor is limited to the legal hours for off-sale at exclusive liquor stores in
the City. Malt liquor sold off-sale must be removed from the premises before
the applicable off-sale closing time at exclusive liquor stores, except that
malt liquor in growlers only may be sold at off-sale on Sundays. Packaging of
malt liquor for off-sale must comply with M.S. § 340A.285, as it may be amended
from time to time. The amount of malt liquor sold at off-sale may not exceed
500 barrels annually. No license may be used under this section to a brewer if
the brewer seeking the license, or any person having an economic interest in
the brewer seeking the license or exercising control over the brewer seeking
the license, is a brewer that brews more than 20,000 barrels of its own brands
of malt liquor annually or a winery that produces more than 250,000 gallons of
wine annually;
      (8)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval
of the Commissioner of Public Safety, which may be issued only in connection
with a social event sponsored by a club, charitable, religious or other non-
profit corporation that has existed for at least three years. No license shall
be for longer than four consecutive days and the City shall issue no more than
12 days worth of temporary licenses to any one organization in any calendar
year;
      (9)   Combination on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses;
      (10)   Culinary class limited on-sale license may be issued to a business
establishment that meets the criteria of M.S. § 340A.4041, as it may be amended
from time to time;
      (11)   Temporary off-sale wine license, with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety, for the off-sale of wine at an auction. A
license issued under this division (A)(11) authorizes the sale of only vintage
wine of a brand and vintage that is not commonly offered by sale by any
wholesaler in the state. The license shall not authorize the off-sale of wine
for more than three consecutive days; provided, not more than 600 cases of wine
are sold at auction;
      (12)   Brewer taproom license, may be issued to the holder of a brewer’s
license under M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6, clauses (c), (i) or (j), as they may be
amended from time to time, for the on-sale of malt liquor produced by the
brewer for consumption on the premises of or adjacent to one brewery location
owned by the brewer. A brewer taproom license may not issue to a brewer if the
brewer seeking the license, or any person having an economic interest in the
brewer seeking the license or exercising control over the brewer seeking the
license, is a brewer that brews more than 250,000 barrels of malt liquor
annually or a winery that produces more than 250,000 gallons of wine annually.
A brewer taproom may be open and may conduct on-sale business on Sundays;
      (13)   Small brewer or microdistillery temporary on-sale intoxicating
liquor license, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety, to
brewers who manufacture fewer than 3,500 barrels of malt liquor in a year or a
microdistillery, for the on-sale of intoxicating liquor in connection with a
social event with the City sponsored by the brewer or microdistillery; and
      (14)   Microdistillery cocktail room license, which may be issued to
issued to the holder of a microsdistillery license under M.S. § 340A.22, as it
may be amended from time to time, for the on-sale of distilled liquor produced
by the distiller for consumption on the premises of or adjacent to one
distillery location owned by the distiller.
   (B)   Community festivals. Any licensee authorized to sell intoxicating
liquor, wine and/or 3.2% malt beverage may also dispense the alcoholic
beverages off the licensed premises at a community festival held within the
City, if approved by resolution of the City Council. The licensee must specify
the area in which the alcoholic beverages must be dispensed and consumed, and
shall demonstrate that it has liability insurance that covers the event, as
prescribed by M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 8-22-2011; Ord. 2015-01, passed 6-29-2015)
§ 112.08 TYPES OF 3.2% MALT LIQUOR LICENSES.
   Licenses for 3.2% malt liquor shall be of the following categories, which
license shall be granted only for the purposes permitted by state statutes and
limited by this chapter:
   (A)   On-sale license;
   (B)   Off-sale license; and
   (C)   Temporary 3.2% malt liquor license.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 8-22-2011)
§ 112.09 CONDITIONS OF LICENSING.
   Any license granted under this chapter is subject to the following
conditions, any and all conditions imposed by the City Council at the time of
issuance or renewal, all other conditions of this chapter and all other
applicable ordinances of the City, and all regulations promulgated by the
Commissioner of Public Safety and statutes of the state.
   (A)   No license shall be granted for operation on any premise on which
taxes, assessment or other claims of the City are delinquent and unpaid.
   (B)   No license shall be issued to a location within 350 feet of any
school.
   (C)   Every license is granted subject to the conditions of this chapter and
any other applicable City ordinances and state laws and regulations.
   (D)   Each licensee is responsible for the conduct of his or her place of
business and the conditions of sobriety and order therein.
   (E)   Any peace officer, Health Officer or any properly designated officer
or employee of the City shall have the unqualified right to enter, inspect and
search the premises of the licensee during business hours without a warrant.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 8-22-2011; Ord. 2017-02, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 112.10 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours and days of sale shall be those established by M.S. §
340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   No person shall consume nor shall any on-sale licensee permit any
consumption of intoxicating liquor, wine or 3.2% malt liquor in an on-sale
licensed, premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally
occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle or other container
of intoxicating liquor, wine or 3.2% malt liquor upon any table, bar, stool or
other place where customers are served, more than 30 minutes after the time
when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can
legally occur.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section shall be grounds for
revocation, suspension or non-renewal of the license.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 8-22-2011; Ord. 2015-01, passed 6-29-2015)
§ 112.11 SALE AND POSSESSION ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other ordinance provision to the contrary, the
holder of an “on-sale” license for premises which is located in the B-1 Zoning
District of the City, may apply for a temporary expansion of the licensed
premises permit to allow sale and possession of alcoholic beverages on public
sidewalks directly adjacent and contiguous to the permanently licensed
premises.
   (B)   The City Council may grant such a permit on the terms and conditions
specified in this section, and such other terms and conditions as the City
Council may determine are necessary or advisable to protect the public health,
safety and welfare. Applications shall be subject to the following requirements
and procedures.
      (1)   Application for temporary expansion area. Application for a
temporary expansion of the licensed premises shall be made on forms provided by
the City and shall contain the following information, and such other
information as the Council may require from time to time:
         (a)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the license
holders, the owner of the premises and the manager of the licensed
establishment;
         (b)   A specific description and diagram of the area in which the
temporary expansion activity is to occur. The description and diagram must
include dimensions, barriers proposed to be used, ingress and egress
arrangements, seating capacity and other relevant information;
         (c)   The purpose for which the temporary expansion is sought and a
description of planned activities, including food and beverage service,
security plans (including lighting, sanitation, liquor control and the like)
and days and hours of operation;
         (d)   A detailed description of the methods that the licensee will use
to ensure that consumption of alcoholic beverages is restricted to the licensed
premises and the temporary expansion area and that alcoholic beverages are not
removed from those areas; and
         (e)   Such other information as the City may deem necessary.
      (2)   Conditions - temporary expansion area. Approval of an application
may be made subject to any appropriate restrictions or conditions, which may
vary from establishment to establishment depending on the circumstances. As a
minimum, the following restrictions and conditions shall apply.
         (a)   The temporary expansion area located on the public sidewalk must
be immediately at the front of an establishment and not encroach on the
sidewalk of any neighboring premises.
         (b)   Hours of operation shall be limited to between 11:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m., subject to other limitations of the underlying on-sale license and
subject to any greater restrictions which the City Council may determine should
apply to a temporary expansion area due to its particular circumstances.
         (c)   The City Council may determine the specific days of operation
which shall be specified in the permit. Sale or possession of alcoholic
beverages within the temporary expansion area shall only be permitted between
May 1 and October 1.
         (d)   Service of alcoholic beverages shall be only at tables and
limited to the approved seating capacity in the temporary expansion area. Food
service shall be available in the temporary expansion area during all hours of
operation.
         (e)   The City Council may specify the type of beverage containers
which may be used in a temporary expansion area, and may require a specific
type and number of refuse containers to be provided within the area.
         (f)   An approved temporary barrier at least 30 inches in height shall
be placed at the line of the temporary expansion area which adjoins any other
neighboring premises, during the hours of operation.
         (g)   The licensee shall have submitted adequate plans addressing
liquor control and other public safety concerns, and shall comply with all such
plans which are approved by the City when the permit is issued under this
section, at all times.
         (h)   At least four feet of sidewalk must be maintained outside the
temporary expansion area for barrier free (including wheelchair accessible)
pedestrian traffic.
         (i)   All temporary barriers, tables and chairs, and other property of
the licensee shall be removed from any public sidewalk within the temporary
expansion area at all times other than the hours of operation.
         (j)   The licensee shall be responsible for picking up trash and
litter generated in the operation of the temporary expansion area and within a
reasonable distance (minimum of 20 feet) from the area.
         (k)   All applicable liquor laws shall be strictly observed by the
licensee and his or her employees.
         (l)   The licensee shall maintain general liability insurance
expressly covering any temporary expansion area which is on public property or
sidewalks, with the minimum of $500,000 combined single limit, and shall name
the City as an additional insured thereon. The licensee shall provide proof of
the insurance to the City prior to the issuance of any permit under this
section, and from time to time upon reasonable request of the City.
         (m)   Issuance of the permit under this section shall indicate that
the licensee has agreed to defend, indemnify and hold the City, its officers,
employees and agents, harmless from any claims, damages, losses, costs and
expenses which may arise as a result of the use of temporary expansion area by
the licensee and his or her employees, agents and customers. Additionally, the
licensee shall be responsible for the cost of any clean-up required by reason
of the use, whether within or outside the temporary expansion area, which may
be incurred by the City. The City shall have a lien against the licensed
premises for any such claim, damage, loss, cost or expense which is paid by the
City.
         (n)   The licensee shall post notice to all patrons that they must
remain within the temporary expansion area while possessing or consuming any
alcoholic beverages. The notice shall also advise patrons that they are subject
to citation by the City if they leave the temporary expansion area with any
alcoholic beverage.
      (3)   Violation. In addition to any other penalties which may be
available under the general liquor ordinances, and regardless of any other
limitations or sanctions which may be imposed by the City, any violation of
this section, or of a material term or condition of a permit issued hereunder,
or any applicable liquor law or ordinance, shall be cause for the immediate
suspension of a temporary expansion permit by the City’s Police Department,
subject to review by the City Council at its next regular meeting upon request
by the licensee. If the City Council finds that a material violation of this
section, or of a material term or condition of a permit issued hereunder, or of
any other applicable liquor law or ordinance has occurred, the City Council may
suspend or revoke a temporary expansion permit in its sole discretion.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 8-22-2011)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter or M.S. Ch.
340A, as it may be amended from time to time, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and upon conviction shall be punished criminally as provided by law.
      (2)   The Council shall impose a civil penalty not to exceed $2,000 for
each violation of this chapter and M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from
time to time. These civil penalties shall be in addition to any criminal
penalties imposed under this section or any suspension or revocation under §
112.06(H) of this chapter.
   (B)   A violation of §
112.04 of this chapter is a misdemeanor and is justification for revocation or
suspension of any liquor, wine or 3.2% malt beverage license.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 8-22-2011)
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
113.03   Licensing; exemptions
   
113.04   License ineligibility
   
113.05   License suspension and revocation
   
113.06   License transferability
   
113.07   Registration
   
113.08   Refusal to register or permit
   
113.09   Prohibited solicitation practices
   
113.10   Exclusion by placard
   
113.11   Use of streets
   
113.12   Private property
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS SOLICITATION. An attempt by a solicitor, engaging in transactions
of the same kind to sell or distribute for a consideration any goods or
services primarily for personal, family or household purposes, when either the
solicitor or person acting for him or her contacts the solicitee by telephone
or in person, other than at the established place of business of solicitor,
except:
      (1)   An attempted solicitation in which the solicitee personally knows
the identity of the solicitor, the name of the business firm or organization he
or she represents and the identity of kinds of goods, services or things of
value offered;
      (2)   An attempted solicitation in which the solicitee has first
initiated the contact with the solicitor;
      (3)   An attempted solicitation of a newspaper subscription in which the
solicitor is a minor child engaged in both the delivery and sale of the
newspaper; or
      (4)   An attempted solicitation for the sale of products of a farm or
garden occupied or cultivated by the solicitor, when facts of the occupancy or
cultivation are proven by the solicitor.
   CONTRIBUTION SOLICITATION. An attempt by a solicitor to obtain money from a
solicitee for any cause or purpose, when either the solicitor or person acting
for him or her contacts the solicitee by telephone or in person other than at
the established place of meeting, business, service or activity of the
organization represented by the solicitor, except:
      (1)   An attempted solicitation in which the solicitee personally knows
the identity of the solicitor, the name of the organization he or she
represents and the identity of the services performed or offered by the
organization; or
      (2)   An attempted solicitation in which the solicitee has first
initiated the contact with the solicitor or the organization represented by him
or her.
   ESTABLISHED PLACE. Real estate in the City owned, leased on a month-to-month
or term-certain longer than 30 days. The term includes a booth, compartment or
area leased or assigned during and for the length of an event or occasion.
   GOODS. Any tangible thing of value including money if the selling price
exceeds the face value thereof. The term includes such chattels as are
furnished or used at the time of the sale or subsequently in the modernization,
rehabilitation, repair, alteration, improvement or construction of real
property so as to become a part thereof whether or not severable therefrom.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street or any other type of place-to-place, for the purpose
of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or attempting to
sell and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares, products,
merchandise or other personal property that the person is carrying or otherwise
transporting. The term PEDDLER shall mean the same as the term HAWKER.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership or association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships and associations, the term shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent or employee.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the City Hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be counted as REGULAR BUSINESS DAYS.
   SOLICITEE. The person solicited.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares, products,
merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she may be
carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog or by
other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later time.
The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the scope of
this provision if the actual purpose of the person’s activity is to obtain or
attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the same as
the term CANVASSER.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter or empty store front for
the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to sell
and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal property
and who does not remain or intend to remain in any one location for more than
14 consecutive days.
(Prior Code, § 1103.01)
§ 113.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of the requirements of this chapter, the terms
“peddler”, “solicitor” and “transient merchant” shall not apply to any person
selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods, wares, products,
merchandise or other personal property to a retailer of the items being sold by
the wholesaler. The terms also shall not apply to any person who makes initial
contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to
establish a regular customer delivery route for the delivery of perishable food
and dairy products such as baked goods and milk, nor shall they apply to any
person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to the customers
on his or her established regular delivery route.
   (B)   In addition, persons conducting the type of sales commonly known as
garage sales, rummage sales or estate sales, as well as those persons
participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea market, shall be
exempt from the definitions of “peddler”, “solicitor” and “transient
merchants”, as shall be anyone conducting an auction as a properly licensed
auctioneer, or any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale.
Exemption from the definitions for the scope of this chapter shall not excuse
any person from complying with any other applicable statutory provision or
local ordinance.
   (C)   Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts and other charitable tax-exempt organizations,
who register with the City Administrator, shall be exempt from the definitions
of “peddler”, “solicitor” and “transient merchants”.
(Prior Code, § 1103.02)
§ 113.03 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor or transient merchant within the City limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as required by M.S. Ch.
329, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   City license required. Except as otherwise provided for by this
chapter, no person shall conduct business as a peddler, solicitor or transient
merchant without first having obtained a license from the City. Solicitors need
not be licensed, but are still required to register pursuant to §
113.07 of this chapter.
   (C)   Application.
      (1)   Application for a City license to conduct business as a peddler or
transient merchant shall be made at least 14 days before the applicant desires
to begin conducting business. Application for a license shall be made on a form
approved by the City Council and available from the office of the City
Administrator. All applications shall be signed by the applicant. All
applications shall include the following information:
         (a)   The full legal name and date of birth of the applicant.
Applicants shall provide a current driver’s license or identification card
issued by the state or other state, which license or card must include a
picture of the person to whom it was issued;
         (b)   The business and residence address(es) and telephone number(s)
of the applicant, including a street or rural route address, the City or town,
and the state. A post office box number shall not be accepted as an address for
the applicant. Address information shall include both the applicant’s permanent
address and, if different, the applicant’s temporary address in the vicinity of
the City;
         (c)   The address to which all notices required under this chapter
shall be sent;
         (d)   The age, sex, weight, height and color of eyes and hair of the
applicant;
         (e)   A description of any vehicle and license number to be used in
the regulated activity;
         (f)   The name, phone number and address of the person, firm,
association or corporation that the applicant represents or is employed by, or
whose merchandise is being sold, and the name, phone number and address of the
manager or supervisor to whom the applicant reports to during the course of
undertaking the regulated activity. The address information shall indicate a
street or rural route address, the City or town, and the state at which the
firm is located. A post office box number shall not be accepted as an address
for the business entity. Address information shall include both the business
entity’s permanent address and, if different, the business entity’s temporary
addresses in the vicinity of the City;
         (g)   A description of the kind and nature of the property, goods,
wares, merchandise or services sold or solicited for sale by the applicant, and
an itinerary identifying the intended dates and areas of the City in which the
applicant will be undertaking any regulated activity along with the proposed
method of delivery;
         (h)   The signature of the applicant;
         (i)   Whether or not the applicant has ever been convicted of a
violation of any ordinance of the City or any other municipality; and if so, a
description of the nature of the violation, the date of the conviction, and the
name of the City involved;
         (j)   Whether or not the applicant has ever been convicted of a
violation of any statute of the United States, the State of Minnesota or any
other state; and, if so, a description of the nature of the violation, the date
of the conviction and the name of the sate or other jurisdiction involved;
         (k)   The length of time during which the regulated activity is to be
conducted, but no event is to exceed 14 days from the date of registration; and
         (l)   The names of other municipalities, not to exceed three, where
the applicant has carried on a similar business and the addresses from which
the business was conducted in those municipalities.
      (2)   At the time of filing the application, a non-refundable fee shall
be paid to the City Administrator cover administrative fees and the cost of
investigation of the facts stated therein.
      (3)   Each application shall be referred to the City’s Police Department
for investigation, the results of which shall be reported to the City Clerk-
Treasurer. The peace officer shall have ten business days within which to
investigate and make a recommendation thereon.
   (D)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of
the license fee, the City Administrator, within two regular business days, must
determine if the application is complete. An application is determined to be
complete only if all required information is provided. If the City
Administrator determines that the application is incomplete, the City
Administrator must inform the applicant of the required necessary information
that is missing. If the application is complete, the City Administrator must
order any investigation, including background checks, necessary to verify the
information provided with the application. Within ten regular business days of
receiving a complete application, the City Administrator must issue the license
unless there exist grounds for denying the license under §
113.04 of this chapter, in which case the City Administrator must deny the
license. If the City Administrator denies the license, the applicant must be
notified in writing of the decision, the reason for denial, and of the
applicant’s right to appeal the denial by requesting, within 20 days of
receiving notice of rejection, a public hearing before the City Council. The
City Council shall hear the appeal within 20 days of the date of the request.
The decision of the City Council following the public hearing can be appealed
by petitioning the state’s Court of Appeals for a writ of certiorari.
   (E)   Duration. An annual license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for one calendar year form the date of issue. All other licenses granted under
this chapter shall be valid only during the time period indicated on the
license.
   (F)   License exemptions. This section does not apply to:
      (1)   The sale of the products of the farm or garden occupied or
cultivated by the seller;
      (2)   Persons going from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street or other type of place-to-place when the activity is
for the purpose of exercising that person’s state or federal Constitutional
rights such as the freedom of speech, press, religion and the like, that this
exemption may be lost if the person’s exercise of Constitutional rights is
merely incidental to a commercial activity;
      (3)   Sales of personal property at wholesale to dealers in the articles;
      (4)   The sale of newspapers;
      (5)   The acts of merchants or their employees in delivering goods in the
regular course of business;
      (6)   A sale required by statute or by order of any court, or the conduct
of a bona fide auction sale pursuant to law; and
      (7)   An organization that desires to use a solicitor to solicit money,
donations of money or property or financial assistance of any kind, or that
desires to sell or distribute any item of literature or merchandise for which a
fee is charged or solicited, for a charitable, religious, patriotic, political
or philanthropic purpose is exempt from the provisions of this section;
provided, the organization files the following information with the City
Administrator:
         (a)   The organization’s name and the specific cause for which an
exemption is sought;
         (b)   The names and addresses of the officers and directors of the
organization;
         (c)   The period during which the solicitation is to be carried out;
and
         (d)   Whether any commission, fee or wage will be expended in
connection with the solicitation and the amount thereof.
   (G)   Issuance.
      (1)   Upon being satisfied that the organization is acting for a
charitable, religious, patriotic, political or philanthropic purpose, the City
Administrator shall issue a license without fee to the organization.
      (2)   The organization shall furnish credentials to all of its members,
agents or representatives participating in solicitation.
      (3)   The credentials shall state the name of the organization, the name
of the agent and the purpose of the solicitation.
(Prior Code, § 1103.03)
§ 113.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this chapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county license;
   (B)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the City as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
the application;
   (C)   Conviction of the applicant for a violation under this chapter within
five years immediately preceding the filing of the application;
   (D)   The prior revocation of registration or permit under this chapter for
cause within five years immediately preceding the filing of the application; or
the revocation of any other license, permit or registration issued by the
United States, the State of Minnesota, any other state or any other
municipality within the United States based upon or involving fraud or
misrepresentation and within five years immediately preceding the filing of the
application;
   (E)   The applicant is under suspension under this chapter;
   (F)   The conviction of the applicant within the past five years from the
date of the application for any violation under any statute of the United
States, the State of Minnesota or any other state, or under any ordinance of
the City or any other municipality within the United States, which violation
involved acts which if they occurred in Minnesota would constitute fraud,
misrepresentation, embezzlement, burglary, possession of burglary or theft
tools, criminal sexual conduct, robbery, kidnaping, false imprisonment or
assault and which conviction occurred within five years immediately preceding
the filing of the application; and
   (G)   The applicant is found to have a bad business reputation. Evidence of
a bad business reputation shall include, but not be limited to, the existence
of more than three complaints against the applicant with the Better Business
Bureau, the Attorney General’s Office or other similar business or consumer
rights office or agency, within the preceding 12 months, or three complaints
filed against the applicant within the preceding five years.
(Prior Code, § 1103.04)
§ 113.05 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   General. The City Administrator shall by service of notice suspend for
a period of not more than 60 days, or revoke any registration or permit under
the authority of this chapter for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   The conviction of the registrant of any of the offenses set forth
in §
113.04 of this chapter;
      (2)   The conviction of the registrant or permittee under any ordinance
of any City or the laws of the United States, the State of Minnesota or any
other state involving fraud, misrepresentation or embezzlement during the
effective period of the registration or permit;
      (3)   The use of any fraud, misrepresentation, trick, or deception in
carrying out or promoting a regulated activity;
      (4)   The refusal of the registrant or permittee to exhibit proof of
registration under this chapter to any official or law enforcement officer of
the City;
      (5)   The representation upon the application form or otherwise that the
registrant or permittee is an employee, agent or representative of any person
whom the registrant does not, in fact, represent;
      (6)   The refusal or failure of the registrant or permittee to leave the
property or premises of others when requested to leave by the owner or occupant
thereof;
      (7)   The making of any false statement or misrepresentation by the
registrant or permittee to gain entrance to any building or structure within
the City;
      (8)   The use of any false or fraudulent statement, whether written or
oral, or any misrepresentation concerning the price, terms of payment, quality,
quantity or delivery of personal property, goods, wares, merchandise or
services; and
      (9)   The violation by the registrant or permittee of any other
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person’s authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the City shall provided the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application or, if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C)
above, the licensee shall have the right top request a public hearing. If no
request is received by the City Clerk-Treasurer within ten regular business
days following the service of the notice, the City may proceed with the
suspension or revocation. For the purpose of mailed notices, service shall be
considered complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a
public hearing is requested within the stated timeframe, a hearing shall be
scheduled within 20 days from the date of the request. Within three regular
business days of the hearing, the City Council shall notify the licensee of its
decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person’s license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) above.
   (F)   Appeals. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
(Prior Code, § 1103.05)
§ 113.06 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
(Prior Code, § 1103.06)
§ 113.07 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   Upon being furnished with the required information, payment of
the prescribed fee and the completion of the City’s Police Department
investigation, the City Administrator shall register the applicant forthwith
and issue a receipt of registration, except as provided in §
113.08 of this chapter. The City Administrator shall make a reasonable effort
to complete the registration process promptly. The receipt shall contain the
signature of the issuing officer and shall show the name, address and
description of the registrant, the kind of goods to be sold thereunder, the
amount of fee paid, the date of issuance and the length of time the same shall
be operative, as well as the license number and other identifying description
of any vehicle used in the regulated activity.
      (2)   The City Administrator shall record the registration in a permanent
record.
   (B)   (1)   All solicitors, and any person exempt from the licensing
requirements of this chapter under §
113.03 of this chapter, shall be required to register with the City.
Registration shall be made on the same form required for a license application,
but no fee shall be required. Immediately upon completion of the registration
form, the City Administrator shall issue to the registrant a “solicitors,
peddlers, transients permit” as proof of the registration.
      (2)   “Solicitors, peddlers, transients permit” shall be non-
transferable.
(Prior Code, § 1103.07)
§ 113.08 REFUSAL TO REGISTER OR PERMIT.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall refuse to register any person or issue a
permit to any organization for any of the reasons set forth in §
113.04 of this chapter.
   (B)   If registration or permitting is refused, the City Administrator shall
notify the applicant in writing setting forth the grounds for the refusal. The
applicant may appeal from the City Clerk-Treasurer’s decision by filling a
written notice of appeal with the City Administrator within ten days after
receipt of notice from the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 1103.08)
§ 113.09 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION PRACTICES.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall conduct business in any of
the following manners:
   (A)   To engage in solicitation for any unlawful business or organizational
purpose or activity;
   (B)   To engage in threats, harassment, theft or deceit or otherwise
unlawful activities during the course of solicitation and to continue to
solicit after solicitee has indicated further solicitations are not welcome;
   (C)   To refuse to leave any premise in the City when requested by the
owner, lessee or person in charge thereof;
   (D)   To engage in contribution solicitation without completion of licensing
or registration, as herein provided;
   (E)   To engage in business solicitation without a license as herein
provided;
   (F)   To call attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out or by any other
noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure;
   (G)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public right-of-way;
   (H)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of any individual or the general public;
   (I)   Conducting business before 8:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m., Monday
through Saturday, and 10:00 a.m. until 6:00 p.m. on Sunday;
   (J)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration and
identification, when requested; or using the license or registration of another
person; and/or
   (K)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the City solely
based on the City having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person.
(Prior Code, § 1103.09)
§ 113.10 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant, unless invited to do so by the
property owner or tenant, shall enter the property of another for the purpose
of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or transient merchant when the
property is marked with a sign or placard at least four inches long and four
inches wide with print of at least 48 point in size stating “No Peddlers,
Solicitors or Transient Merchants”, “Peddlers, Solicitors and Transient
Merchants Prohibited” or other comparable statement. No person other than the
property owner or tenant shall remove, deface or otherwise tamper with any sign
or placard under this section.
(Prior Code, § 1103.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.11 USE OF STREETS.
   A person licensed under this chapter does not have any exclusive right to
any location in the public streets and it is not permitted a stationary
location thereon. A person licensed under this section may not operate in a
congested area where doing so might impede or inconvenience the public use of
streets.
(Prior Code, § 1103.11)
§ 113.12 PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Issuance of a license under this chapter does not permit the license holder
to conduct the licensed activity on private property without the permission of
the owner or the owner’s authorized agent.
(Prior Code, § 1103.12)
CHAPTER 114: TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING SERVICES
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Prohibitions
   
114.03   Application for license; fees; issuance
   
114.04   Inspection of facilities
   
114.05   Suspension or revocation of license
   
114.06   Consent for performing procedures on persons under 18
   
114.07   Prohibitions relating to persons under 18
   
114.08   Defenses to violations
   
114.09   Training standards; records; safety and sanitation; equipment
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. A Board of Health established under the provisions of M.S.
§ 145A.03, as it may be amended from time to time. If the City does not have a
Board of Health, then this term means the authority having the duties of a
Board of Health in the City, including, but not limited to, the County Board of
Health.
   BODY PIERCING. Includes ear piercing, except when the ear piercing procedure
is performed with an ear piercing gun.
   BUSINESS. Any entity that provides services for compensation.
   EAR PIERCING GUN. A mechanical device that pierces the ear by forcing a
disposable single-use stud or solid needle through the ear.
   GUARDIAN. Has the same meaning as in §
132.24 of this code of ordinances.
   PARENT. Has the same meaning as in §
132.24 of this code of ordinances.
   TATTOO. Has the same meaning given in M.S. § 146B.01, subd. 30, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 1104.01)
§ 114.02 PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall do any of the following:
   (A)   Operate a business that offers tattooing or body piercing services
unless the City Council issues it a license to do so;
   (B)   Perform a tattooing or body piercing procedure in a manner that does
not meet the safety and sanitation standards established by this chapter and
any federal, state or local laws, rules or regulations; or
   (C)   Perform a tattooing procedure, body piercing procedure or ear piercing
procedure with an ear piercing gun in a manner that does not meet the standards
for appropriate disinfection and sterilization of invasive equipment or parts
of equipment used in performing the procedures established by this chapter and
any federal, state or local laws, rules or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1104.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEES; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   A person seeking approval to operate a business that offers tattooing
or body piercing services shall apply to the City on forms the City or the
Board of Health shall prescribe and provide. The applicant shall submit all
information the City and the Board of Health determines is necessary to process
the application. The applicant shall include the fee established under §
34.01 of this code of ordinances or as established by the Board of Health.
   (B)   To receive approval to offer tattooing or body piercing services, a
business must demonstrate to the Board of Health the ability to meet the
requirements established by this chapter and any federal, state or local laws,
rules or regulations for safe performance of the tattooing or body piercing
procedures, training of the individuals who perform the procedures and
maintenance of records.
   (C)   If the Board of Health determines, following an inspection conducted
under §
114.04 of this chapter, that a business meets the requirements for approval, it
shall so advise the City. The City Council may either approve or deny the
license, or it may delay action for a reasonable period of time as necessary to
complete any investigation of the application or the applicant it deems
necessary. If the City Council shall approve the license, the City Clerk-
Treasurer shall issue the license to the applicant. If the City Council denies
the license, notice of the denial shall be given to the applicant along with
notice of the applicant’s right to appeal the City Council’s decision. Approval
remains valid for one year unless earlier suspended or revoked under §
114.05 of this chapter. A business’s approval may be renewed. Approval is not
transferable.
(Prior Code, § 1104.03)
§ 114.04 INSPECTION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   The Board of Health, or a person or another body designed by the City,
shall conduct at least one inspection of a business prior to approving the
business under §
114.03 of this chapter to offer tattooing or body piercing services. The Board
may conduct additional inspections as necessary for the approval process.
   (B)   The Board of Health may inspect an approved business at any time the
Board considers necessary, but not less frequently than once every three years.
In an inspection, the Board of Health shall be given access to the business’s
premises and to all records relevant to the inspection.
(Prior Code, § 1104.04)
§ 114.05 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The City Council may suspend or revoke the approval of a business to
offer tattooing or body piercing services at any time it determines that the
business is being operated in violation of this chapter or any federal, state
or local laws, rules or regulations.
   (B)   Proceedings for suspensions and revocations shall be conducted in
accordance with rules adopted in
Ch. 110 of this code of ordinances for the suspension or revocation of business
licenses.
(Prior Code, § 1104.05)
§ 114.06 CONSENT FOR PERFORMING PROCEDURES ON PERSONS UNDER 18.
   (A)   No person shall perform a body piercing procedure or ear piercing
procedure with an ear piercing gun on an individual who is under 18 years of
age unless consent has been given by the individual’s parent, guardian, or
custodian in accordance with division (B) below. Tattooing a person under the
age of 18 is gross misdemeanor regardless of parental or guardian consent.
   (B)   A parent, guardian or custodian of an individual under age 18 who
desires to give consent to a business to perform on the individual under age
18, body piercing procedure or ear piercing procedure performed with an ear
piercing gun shall do both of the following:
      (1)   Appear in person at the business at the time the procedure is
performed; and
      (2)   Sign a document provided by the business that explains the manner
in which the procedure will be performed and methods for proper care of the
affected body area following performance of the procedure.
(Prior Code, § 1104.06)
§ 114.07 PROHIBITIONS RELATING TO PERSONS UNDER 18.
   (A)   (1)   Unless consent has been given in accordance with §
114.06 of this chapter, no individual who is under age 18 shall obtain or
attempt to obtain a tattooing service, body piercing service or ear piercing
service performed with an ear piercing gun.
      (2)   No individual who is under age 18 shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning the individual’s name, age or other identification
for the purpose of obtaining a tattooing service, body piercing service or ear
piercing service performed with an ear piercing gun.
   (B)   (1)   No individual shall knowingly show or give any false information
as to the name, age or other identification of an individual who is under age
18 for the purpose of obtaining for the individual under age 18 a tattooing
service, body piercing service or ear piercing service performed with an ear
piercing gun.
      (2)   No individual shall impersonate the parent, guardian or custodian
of an individual who is under age 18 for the purpose of obtaining for the
individual under age 18 a tattooing service, body piercing service or ear
piercing service performed with an ear piercing gun.
(Prior Code, § 1104.07)
§ 114.08 DEFENSES TO VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   An operator or employee of a business that performs tattooing
services, body piercing services or ear piercing services performed with an ear
piercing gun may not be found guilty of a violation of §
114.06(A) of this chapter or any federal, state or local laws, rules or
regulations in which age is an element of the provisions if:
      (1)   The individual obtaining a tattooing service, body piercing service
or ear piercing service performed with an ear piercing gun, at the time of so
doing, exhibited to the operator or employee of the tattooing, body piercing or
ear piercing business a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an
identification card issued under state law showing that the individual was then
at least age 18;
      (2)   The operator or employee made a bona fide effort to ascertain the
true age of the individual obtaining a tattooing, body piercing or ear piercing
service by checking the identification presented, at the time of the service,
to ascertain that the description on the identification compared with the
appearance of the individual and that the identification had not been altered
in any way; and
      (3)   The operator or employee had reason to believe that the individual
obtaining a tattooing, body piercing, or ear piercing service was at least age
18.
   (B)   In any action or proceeding before a court of record in which a
defense is raised under this section, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or the
Registrar’s Deputy who issued a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an
identification card shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the
records, in the Registrar’s or Deputy’s possession, of the issuance in lieu of
the testimony of the personnel of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles at the hearing,
action or proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 1104.08)
§ 114.09 TRAINING STANDARDS; RECORDS; SAFETY AND SANITATION; EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Each operator of a business that offers tattooing or body piercing
services shall do all of the following:
      (1)   Maintain procedures for ensuring that the individuals who perform
tattooing or body piercing procedures are adequately trained to perform the
procedures properly;
      (2)   With respect to tattooing services, maintain written records that
include the color, manufacturer and lot number of each pigment used for each
tattoo performed;
      (3)   Comply with the safety and sanitation requirements for preventing
transmission of infectious diseases, as established in any federal, state or
local laws, rules or regulations;
      (4)   Require the individuals who perform tattooing and body piercing
procedures to disinfect and sterilize all invasive equipment or parts of
equipment used in performing the procedures by using methods that meet the
disinfection and sterilization requirements established in any federal, state
or local laws, rules or regulations; and
      (5)   Ensure that weekly tests of the business’s heat sterilization
devices are performed to determine whether the devices are functioning
properly. In having the devices tested, the operator of the business shall use
a biological monitoring system that indicates whether the devices are killing
microorganisms. If a test indicates that a device is not functioning properly,
the operator shall take immediate remedial action to ensure that heat
sterilization is being accomplished. The operator shall maintain documentation
that the weekly tests are being performed. To comply with the documentation
requirement, the documents must consist of a log that indicates the date on
which each test is performed and the name of the person who performed the test
or, if a test was conducted by an independent testing entity, a copy of the
entity’s testing report. The operator shall maintain records of each test
performed for at least two years.
   (B)   Each operator of a business that offers ear piercing services
performed with an ear piercing gun shall require the individuals who perform
the ear piercing services to disinfect and sterilize the ear piercing gun by
using chemical solutions that meet the disinfection and sterilization
requirements established in any federal, state or local laws, rules or
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1104.09)
CHAPTER 115: TOBACCO REGULATIONS
Section
   
115.01   Purpose and intent
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   License
   
115.04   Fees
   
115.05   Basis for denial of license
   
115.06   Prohibited sales
   
115.07   Vending machines
   
115.08   Self-service sales
   
115.09   Responsibility
   
115.10   Compliance checks and inspections
   
115.11   Other illegal acts
   
115.12   Exceptions and defenses
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   Because the City recognizes that many persons under the age of 18 years
purchase or otherwise obtain, possess and use tobacco, tobacco products and
tobacco-related devices, and the sales, possession and use are violations of
both state and federal laws; and because studies, which the City hereby accepts
and adopts, have shown that most smokers begin smoking before they have reached
the age of 18 years and that those persons who reach the age of 18 years
without having started smoking are significantly less likely to begin smoking;
and because smoking has been shown to be the cause of several serious health
problems which subsequently place a financial burden on all levels of
government; this chapter shall be intended to regulate the sale, possession and
use of tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco-related devices for the purpose of
enforcing and furthering existing laws, to protect minors against the serious
effects associated with the illegal use of tobacco, tobacco products and
tobacco-related devices, and to further the official public policy of the state
in regard to preventing young people from starting to smoke as stated in M.S. §
144.391, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 1105.01)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the City uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco-related devices
are following and complying with the requirements of this chapter. COMPLIANCE
CHECKS shall involve the use of minors as authorized by this chapter.
COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall also mean the use of minors who attempt to purchase
tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices for educational, research
and training purposes as authorized by state and federal laws. COMPLIANCE
CHECKS may also be conducted by other units of government for the purpose of
enforcing appropriate federal, state or local laws and regulations relating to
tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco-related devices.
   INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED. The practice of selling any tobacco or tobacco
product wrapped individually for sale. INDIVIDUALLY WRAPPED TOBACCO AND TOBACCO
PRODUCTS shall include, but not be limited to, single cigarette packs, single
bags or cans of loose tobacco in any form, and single cans or other packaging
of snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons or other packaging containing more than a
single pack or other container as described in this definition shall not be
considered INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED.
   LOOSIES. The common term used to refer to a single or individually packaged
cigarette.
   MINOR. Any natural person who has not yet reached the age of 18 years.
   MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated out of a truck,
van, automobile or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and not a
fixed address store front or other permanent type of structure authorized for
sales transactions.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where tobacco, tobacco products
or tobacco-related devices are available for sale to the general public. The
phrase shall include, but not be limited to, grocery stores, convenience stores
and restaurants.
   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other consideration.
   SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING. Open displays of tobacco, tobacco products or
tobacco-related devices in any manner where any person shall have access to the
tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices, without the assistance or
intervention of the licensee or the licensee’s employee. The assistance or
intervention shall entail the actual physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco
product or tobacco-related device between the customer and the licensee or
employee. The phrase shall not include vending machines. SELF-SERVICE SALES are
interpreted as being any sale where there is not an actual physical exchange of
the tobacco between the clerk and the customer.
   TOBACCO or TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any substance or item containing tobacco leaf,
including, but not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, fine
cut or other chewing tobacco, cheroots, stogies, perique, granulated, plug cut,
crimp cut, ready-rubbed and other smoking tobacco, snuff flowers, cavendish,
shorts, plug and twist tobaccos, dipping tobaccos, refuse scraps, clippings,
cuttings and sweepings of tobacco, and other kinds and forms of tobacco leaf
prepared in a manner as to be suitable for chewing, sniffing or smoking.
   TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES. Any tobacco product as well as a pipe, rolling
papers or other device intentionally designed or intended to be used in a
manner which enables the chewing, sniffing or smoking of tobacco or tobacco
products.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices
upon the insertion of money, tokens or other form of payment directly into the
machine by the person seeking to purchase the tobacco, tobacco product or
tobacco-related device.
(Prior Code, § 1105.02)
§ 115.03 LICENSE.
   (A)   License required. No person shall sell or offer to sell any tobacco,
tobacco products or tobacco-related device without first having obtained a
license to do so from the City.
   (B)   Application. An application for a license to sell tobacco, tobacco
products or tobacco-related devices shall be made on a form provided by the
City. The application shall contain the full name of the applicant, the
applicant’s residential and business addresses and telephone numbers, the name
of the business for which the license is sought, and any additional information
the City deems necessary. Upon receipt of a completed application, the City
Clerk-Treasurer shall forward the application to the City Council for action at
its next regularly scheduled City Council meeting. If the City Clerk-Treasurer
shall determine that an application is incomplete, he or she shall return the
application to the applicant with notice of the information necessary to make
the application complete.
   (C)   Action. The City Council may either approve or deny the license, or it
may delay action for a reasonable period of time as necessary to complete any
investigation of the application or the applicant it deems necessary. If the
City Council shall approve the license, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall issue
the license to the applicant. If the City Council denies the license, notice of
the denial shall be given to the applicant along with notice of the applicant’s
right to appeal the City Council’s decision.
   (D)   Term. All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid for one
calendar year from the date of issue.
   (E)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued under this chapter may be
revoked or suspended as provided in §
115.99 of this chapter.
   (F)   Transfers. All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid only
on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the person to
whom the license was issued. No transfer of any license to another location or
person shall be valid without the prior approval of the City Council.
   (G)   Moveable place of business. No license shall be issued to a moveable
place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be eligible to be
licensed under this chapter.
   (H)   Display. All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed premise.
   (I)   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this section shall be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal shall be made at least 30 days, but no more than 60 days, before the
expiration of the current license.
   (J)   Issuance as privilege and not a right. The issuance of a license
issued under this chapter shall be considered a privilege and not an absolute
right of the applicant and shall not entitle the holder to an automatic renewal
of the license.
(Prior Code, § 1105.03)
§ 115.04 FEES.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license
fee shall be paid in full. The fee for a license under this chapter shall be
established in §
34.01 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1105.04)
§ 115.05 BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a license under this
chapter includes, but is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted within the past five years of any
violation of a federal, state or local law, ordinance provision or other
regulation relating to tobacco or tobacco products or tobacco-related devices;
      (3)   The applicant has had a license to sell tobacco, tobacco products
or tobacco-related devices revoked within the preceding 12 months of the date
of application;
      (4)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application or provides false or misleading information; and
      (5)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state or other local law,
ordinance or other regulation from holding a license.
   (B)   However, except as may otherwise be provided by law, the existence of
any particular ground for denial does not mean that the City must deny the
license.
   (C)   If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it shall be
revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the license under
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1105.05)
§ 115.06 PROHIBITED SALES.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell or offer to
sell any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco-related device:
   (A)   To any person under the age of 18 years;
   (B)   By means of any type of vending machine, except as may otherwise be
provided in §
115.07 of this chapter;
   (C)   By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not need to
a make a verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed premises in
order to receive the tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-related device and
whereby there is not a physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product or
tobacco-related device between the licensee, or the licensee’s employee, and
the customer;
   (D)   By means of loosies as defined in §
115.02;
   (E)   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, bella donna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic or controlled
substances, except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process. It is not the
intention of this provision to ban the sale of lawfully manufactured cigarettes
or other tobacco products; and/or
   (F)   By any other means, to any other person, or in any other manner or
form prohibited by federal, state or other local law, ordinance provision or
other regulation.
(Prior Code, § 1105.06) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.07 VENDING MACHINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this chapter to allow the
sale of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices by the means of a
vending machine unless minors are at all times prohibited from entering the
licensed establishment.
(Prior Code, § 1105.07) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.08 SELF-SERVICE SALES.
   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to allow the sale of
tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices by any means where by the
customer may have access to those items without having to request the item from
the licensee or the licensee’s employee and whereby there is not a physical
exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product or the tobacco-related device between
the licensee, or his or her clerk, and the customer. All tobacco, tobacco
products and tobacco-related devices shall either be stored behind a counter or
other area not freely accessible to customers, or in a case or other storage
unit not left open and accessible to the general public. Any retailer selling
tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices at the time this chapter
is adopted shall comply with this section within 90 days following the
effective date of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1105.08) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.09 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions of
their employees in regard to the sale of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-
related devices on the licensed premises, and the sale of an item by an
employee shall be considered a sale by the license holder. Nothing in this
section shall be construed as prohibiting the City from also subjecting the
clerk to whatever penalties are appropriate under this chapter, state or
federal law or other applicable law or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 1105.09)
§ 115.10 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by the City police
or other authorized City official during regular business hours. From time to
time, but at least once per year, the City shall conduct compliance checks by
engaging, with the written consent of their parents or guardians, minors over
the age of 15 years, but less than 18 years, to enter the licensed premise to
attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices.
Minors used for the purpose of compliance checks shall be supervised by City
designated law enforcement officers or other designated City personnel. Minors
used for compliance checks shall not be guilty of unlawful possession of
tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices when those items are
obtained as a part of the compliance check. No minor used in compliance checks
shall attempt to use a false identification misrepresenting the minor’s age,
and all minors lawfully engaged in a compliance check shall answer all
questions about the minor’s age asked by the licensee or his or her employee
and shall produce any identification, if any exists, for which he or she is
asked.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit compliance checks authorized by
state or federal laws for educational, research or training purposes, or
required for the enforcement of a particular state or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 1105.10)
§ 115.11 OTHER ILLEGAL ACTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be a violation of this
chapter.
   (A)   Illegal sales. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person
to sell or otherwise provide any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-related
device to any minor.
   (B)   Illegal possession. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to have in his or her possession any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-
related device. This division (B) shall not apply to minors lawfully involved
in a compliance check.
   (C)   Illegal use. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to
smoke, chew, snuff or otherwise use any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-
related device.
   (D)   Illegal procurement. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to purchase or attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any tobacco,
tobacco product or tobacco-related device, and it shall be a violation of this
chapter for any person to purchase or otherwise obtain those items on behalf of
a minor. It shall further be a violation for any person to coerce or attempt to
coerce a minor to illegally purchase or otherwise obtain or use any tobacco,
tobacco product or tobacco-related device. This division (D) shall not apply to
minors lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   (E)   Use of false identification. It shall be a violation of this chapter
for any minor to attempt to disguise his or her true age by the use of a false
form of identification, whether the identification is that of another person or
one on which the age of the person has been modified or tampered with to
represent an age older than the actual age of the person.
(Prior Code, § 1105.11) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.12 EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the providing of tobacco,
tobacco products or tobacco-related devices to a minor as part of a lawfully
recognized religious, spiritual or cultural ceremony.
   (B)   It shall be an affirmative defense to the violation of this chapter
for a person to have reasonably relied on proof of age as described by state
law.
(Prior Code, § 1105.12)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations.
      (1)   Notice. Upon discovery of a suspected violation, the alleged
violator shall be issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets
forth the alleged violation and which shall inform the alleged violator of his
or her right to be heard on the accusation.
      (2)   Hearings. If a person accused of violating this chapter so
requests, a hearing shall be scheduled, the time and place of which shall be
published and provided to the accused violator.
      (3)   Hearing Officer. The City official designated by the City Council
shall serve as the Hearing Officer.
      (4)   Decision. If the Hearing Officer determines that a violation of
this chapter did occur, that decision, along with the Hearing Officer’s reasons
for finding a violation and the penalty to be imposed under division (B) below,
shall be recorded in writing, a copy of which shall be provided to the accused
violator. Likewise, if the Hearing Officer finds that no violation occurred or
finds grounds for not imposing any penalty, those findings shall be recorded
and a copy provided to the acquitted accused violator.
      (5)   Appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the Hearing Officer shall
be filed in the district court for the City in which the alleged violation
occurred.
      (6)   Misdemeanor prosecution. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
City from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of
this chapter.
      (7)   Continued violation. Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Administrative penalties.
      (1)   Licensees. Any licensee found to have violated this chapter, or
whose employee shall have violated this chapter, shall be charged an
administrative fine of $75 for a first violation of this chapter; $200 for a
second offense at the same licensed premises within a 24-month period; and $250
for a third or subsequent offense at the same location within a 24-month
period. In addition, after the third offense, the license shall be suspended
for not less than seven days.
      (2)   Other individuals. Other individuals, other than minors regulated
by division (B)(3) below, found to be in violation of this chapter shall be
charged an administrative fee of $50.
      (3)   Minors. Minors found in unlawful possession of or who unlawfully
purchase or attempt to purchase, tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related
devices, shall be subject to an administrative fine, or may be subject to
tobacco-related education classes, diversion programs, community services or
another penalty that the City believes will be appropriate and effective. The
administrative fine or other penalty shall be established by City Council
ordinance upon the City Council’s consultation with interested parties of the
courts, educators, parents and children to determine an appropriate penalty for
minors in the City. This administrative fine or other penalty may also be
established from time to time by §
34.01 of this code of ordinances.
      (4)   Misdemeanor. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the City from
seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any violation of this chapter.
      (5)   Statutory penalties. If the administrative penalties authorized to
be imposed by M.S. § 461.12, as it may be amended from time to time, differ
from those established in this section, then the statutory penalties shall
prevail.
(Prior Code, § 1105.99)
CHAPTER 116: GAMBLING
Section
   
116.01   Purpose
   
116.02   Provision of state law adopted
   
116.03   Permit required
   
116.04   Gambling regulation
   
116.05   Duration of permits
   
116.06   Special permit
   
116.07   Permit fees
   
116.08   Permit application procedure
   
116.09   Reports
   
116.10   Suspension or revocation of permit
§ 116.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to closely regulate and control the conduct
of gambling within the City.
(Prior Code, § 1111.01)
§ 116.02 PROVISION OF STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to time,
relating to the definition of terms, licensing and restrictions upon lawful
gambling are adopted and made a part of this chapter by reference, as if set
out in full.
(Prior Code, § 1111.02)
§ 116.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, corporation,
association or organization to conduct the game of bingo or to maintain
gambling devices known as paddle wheels, tip boards, pull tabs or another
apparatus used in the conduct of raffles, unless the organization is a
fraternal, religious, veterans or other non-profit organization, which has been
in existence for the most recent three years preceding the permit application
as a registered Minnesota non-profit corporation, or as an organization
designated as exempt from the payment of income taxes by the Internal Revenue
Code; has at least 15 active members as defined in M.S. § 349.12, subd. 3, as
it may be amended from time to time, and has a valid permit issued by the City
for each location of operation.
   (B)   The organization must not be in existence solely for the purpose of
conducting gambling.
   (C)   The organization must not have as an officer, or member of the
governing body, any person who, within the five years before the issuance of
the license, has been convicted in a federal or state court of a felony or
gross misdemeanor, or who has ever been convicted of a crime involving
gambling, or who has had a license issued by the Lawful Gambling Board of the
state revoked for a violation of law or board rule.
(Prior Code, § 1111.03)
§ 116.04 GAMBLING REGULATION.
   (A)   Any licensed organization must identify in its license application the
lawful purpose on which it proposes to expend net profits from lawful gambling.
   (B)   The organization must identify on its license application a gambling
manager and certify that the manager is qualified under the requirements of
M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 1111.04)
§ 116.05 DURATION OF PERMITS.
   All permits shall be issued for a period of not to exceed two years. If a
permit is issued for a shorter period of time, any fee will be pro rated.
(Prior Code, § 1111.05)
§ 116.06 SPECIAL PERMIT.
   (A)   A special permit may be issued to a qualified organization.
   (B)   Special permits will only be issued to organizations which, for the
purpose of conducting bingo, raffles or other lawful gambling, which is
excluded or exempted from the license requirements of M.S. Ch. 349, as it may
be amended from time to time, as provided in M.S. § 349.166, as it may be
amended from time to time, and pursuant to the following requirements.
      (1)   A special permit may be issued to an organization to conduct bingo
in connection with a City civic celebration, if the organization conducts bingo
less than four times per year for no more than 12 days annually.
      (2)   A special permit may be issued to an organization to conduct a
raffle only if the total prizes awarded annually by the organization is less
than $750.
      (3)   A special permit may be issued to an organization to conduct lawful
gambling if the following requirements are met:
         (a)   The organization conducts lawful gambling on less than five days
each year;
         (b)   The total prizes awarded are less than $50,000 per year;
         (c)   The organization provides the City with at least 30 days prior
notice before conducting a lawful gambling event; and
         (d)   The organization complies with all other requirements of M.S. §
349.166, subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to time, concerning exemption
requirements under state law.
(Prior Code, § 1111.06)
§ 116.07 PERMIT FEES.
   Annual gambling permits, and special permits, shall be required to pay a fee
as set forth in §
34.01 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1111.07)
§ 116.08 PERMIT APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A permit for bingo or other lawful gambling, conducted at any
authorized premises within the City, shall be granted by resolution of the City
Council.
   (B)   Permit applications shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Permit applications shall be sworn by an authorized officer of the
organization on forms which may be prescribed by the City Council or the
state’s Lawful Gambling Board.
      (2)   No permit shall be issued for a period of at least 14 days after
the permit application is submitted.
      (3)   No permit shall be issued until the premises, at which the permit
has been applied for, shall have been inspected by the Chief of Police, who
shall report to the City Council any factors of deficiency and the suitability
of the premises for the issuance of a permit.
      (4)   Each permit application shall identify the name of the gambling
manager who will be responsible for all gambling operations conducted at the
permitted premises.
(Prior Code, § 1111.08)
§ 116.09 REPORTS.
   The gambling manager of each permitted organization shall file with the
City, all records and reports which must be filed with the state’s Lawful
Gambling Board. Additionally, the reports shall describe all lawful
expenditures made in the City’s trade area.
(Prior Code, § 1111.10)
§ 116.10 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Council may suspend for a period not exceeding 60 days, or revoke, any
permit issued pursuant to this chapter for violation of this chapter or any
other provision of M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to time;
provided, however, that, before any such suspension or revocation shall be
made, the permitted organization shall be given a hearing on at least ten-days’
written notice, which shall be before the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1111.11)
CHAPTER 117: SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
117.01   Fees
   
117.02   Conditions of license
   
117.03   Purpose
   
117.04   Definitions
   
117.05   Regulations
   
117.06   Licensing required; issuance
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 FEES.
   The annual fee for a sexually-oriented business or an adult entertainment
license shall be as established under §
34.01 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1101.05)
§ 117.02 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The following acts or conduct on licensed premises are deemed contrary to
public welfare and morals, and therefore no entertainment license shall be held
at any premises where the conduct or acts are permitted:
   (A)   To employ or use any person in the sale or service of any alcoholic or
non-alcoholic beverage in or upon the licensed premises while the person is
unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing as to expose to view any
portion of the female breast below the top of the areola or any portion of the
public hair, anus, cleft of the buttocks, vulva or genitals;
   (B)   To employ or use the services of any hostess while such hostess is
unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing as described in division (A)
above;
   (C)   To encourage or permit any person on the licensed premises to touch,
caress or fondle the breasts, buttocks, anus or genitals of any other person;
   (D)   To permit any employee or person to wear or use any device or covering
exposed to view, which simulates the breasts, genitals, anus, pubic hair or any
portion thereof;
   (E)   To permit any person to perform acts or of acts which simulate:
      (1)   Sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral
copulation, flagellation or any sexual acts which are prohibited by law;
      (2)   The touching, caressing or fondling on the breast, buttocks, anus
or genitals; and/or
      (3)   The display of the pubic hair, anus, vulva, genitals or the nipple
or areola of the female breast.
   (F)   To permit any person to use artificial devices or inanimate objects to
depict any of the prohibited activities described above;
   (G)   To permit any person to remain in or upon the licensed premises who
exposes to public view the pubic hair, anus, vulva or genitals;
   (H)   To permit the showing of film, movies, still pictures, electronic
reproductions or other visual reproductions depicting:
      (1)   Acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy,
bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual acts which are
prohibited by law;
      (2)   Any person being touched, caressed or fondled on the breast,
buttocks, anus or genitals;
      (3)   Scenes wherein a person displays the vulva or the anus or the
genitals; and/or
      (4)   Scenes wherein artificial devices or inanimate objects are employed
to portray any of the prohibited activities described above.
   (I)   To permit any employee, or person under contract, to perform on the
premises, to dance on any table, bar or other elevated platform, except on a
duly designated stage designed exclusively for the entertainment of patrons of
the premises; the stage to be located at least three feet from any patron.
(Prior Code, § 1101.05)
§ 117.03 PURPOSE.
   In order to protect the City’s community image, property values, public
health, safety, welfare and business environment, the City has found it
necessary, in light of the harmful and unwanted secondary effects that certain
businesses generate, to restrict where the businesses may locate within the
City and to regulate those businesses. Only those businesses with secondary
effects on neighboring properties and the City are intended to be regulated.
This section is not intended to restrict or regulate art.
(Prior Code, § 1101.05) (Ord. 2003-16, passed - -)
§ 117.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT USE. Every type and variety of “specified adult business”, and any
other premises, enterprise, establishment, business, operation or place that is
open to some or all members of the public, at, in, on or from which materials,
entertainment or services are presented, displayed, depicted, described,
distributed, sold or rented that constitute or contain an emphasis on specified
anatomical areas or specified sexual activities, and shall include each and
every specified adult business. Any activity or material that is classified as
obscene under M.S. § 617.241, as the same may hereafter be amended, does not
constitute an ADULT USE and are specifically prohibited.
      (1)   ACCESSORY ADULT USE. An adult use for which the presentation,
display, depiction, description, distribution, sale or rental of goods,
services, entertainment or materials that constitute or contain an emphasis on
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities is not a dominant
activity. An ACCESSORY ADULT USE typically does not involve or include any
activity, except the sale or rental of merchandise.
      (2)   EXEMPT ADULT USE. An adult use wherein the presentation, display,
depiction, description, distribution, sale or rental of goods, services,
entertainment or materials that constitute or contain an emphasis on specified
anatomical areas or specified sexual activities is conducted only on a
diminutive scale, such that it is extremely incidental to any dominant activity
and, individually or in combination, occupies or comprises less than five
square feet of the total floor, wall and shelf area of the adult use. EXEMPT
ADULT USES shall not include or involve any activity, except the sale or rental
of merchandise, and no external or internal advertising of any adult- or
sexually-oriented merchandise shall be permitted.
      (3)   PRIMARY ADULT USE. An adult use in, on or from which the sole or a
dominant activity involves the presentation, display, depiction, description,
distribution, sale or rental of goods, services, entertainment or materials
that constitute or contain an emphasis on specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities.
      (4)   For purposes of this definition, the term DOMINANT ACTIVITY shall
mean any activity or activities that, individually or in combination, provide
at least 20% of the gross receipts of the adult use’s entire business operation
at that site; or, occupy or comprise up to 10% or more of the total floor, wall
and shelf area within the site or 150 square feet or more of floor, wall and
shelf area within the site.
   PROTECTED USE. Includes the following: licensed day care centers; public or
private educational facilities classified as elementary, junior high or senior
high schools; public libraries; public parks; on-sale liquor establishments;
churches and church-related facilities; and residential properties or uses.
   SPECIFIED ADULT BUSINESS. Includes the following:
      (1)   ADULT BOOKSTORE. A business or commercial enterprise that provides
for barter, rental or sale items consisting of printed matter, pictures,
slides, records, audio tape, videotape, motion picture film or other visual or
aural media, from which minors are excluded by reason of age or where a
substantial or significant portion of the items are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified anatomical areas or specified sexual
activities.
      (2)   ADULT GIFT OR NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business or commercial enterprise
that has as a principal activity the sale of devices, implements, equipment or
novelties that are designed, marketed, used or sold for the primary purpose of
stimulating human genitals otherwise providing sexual stimulation.
      (3)   ADULT HEALTH CLUB or ADULT SPORTS CLUB. A business or commercial
enterprise that is named, signed, advertised or promoted as a facility or club
providing health- or sports-related goods, services or equipment, from which
minors are excluded by reason of age or that is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      (4)   ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL. A business or commercial enterprise that
provides rooms, facilities or lodging on a short-term basis and wherein
material or entertainment is presented, displayed, provided or otherwise made
available that is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified
anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      (5)   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A business or commercial
enterprise operating in, on or from a building or portion thereof that has a
legal capacity of less than 50 persons, from which minors are excluded by
reason of age or that is used for presenting visual media or materials that are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities.
      (6)   ADULT MODELING STUDIO. A business or commercial enterprise the
primary or dominant activity of which is to provide for its customers to
observe, paint, paint upon, sketch, draw, sculpt, photograph, videograph or
otherwise depict or portray, with the intent of providing sexual stimulation or
sexual gratification to the customers. Specified anatomical areas of one or
more models or subjects, or one or more models or subjects who are engaging in
specified sexual activities.
      (7)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin-, slug-, electronically- or mechanically-
controlled or operated still or motion picture machines, projectors or other
image-producing devices are provided or maintained to show images to no more
than one person per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed
are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified anatomical areas
or specified sexual activities. And the individual viewing areas are not
screened, including, but not limited to, doors and curtains, in any way to
obstruct the viewing areas from monitoring.
      (8)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A business or commercial enterprise
operating in, on or from a building or portion thereof that has a legal
capacity of 50 or more persons, from which minors are excluded by reason of age
or that is used for presenting visual media or materials that are distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on specified anatomical areas or specified
sexual activities.
      (9)   BODY PAINTING STUDIO. A business or commercial enterprise that
provides the service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent
or non-transparent, to or on any specified anatomical area of any person.
      (10)   CABARET. A business or commercial enterprise that provides dancing
or other live entertainment, from which minors are excluded by reason of age or
where the entertainment is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
description of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      (11)   COMPANION ESTABLISHMENT. A business or commercial enterprise that
provides the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or
discussion between an owner, employee or agent of the enterprise and a
customer, if such service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      (12)   CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A business or commercial enterprise that
provides the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or
discussion, from which minors are excluded by reason of age or where the
service is distinguished or characterized by specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities.
      (13)   MASSAGE PARLOR. A massage parlor or health club which restricts
minors by reason of age, and which provides the services of massage, if the
service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified
anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      (14)   SAUNA, STEAM ROOM or BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A business or commercial
enterprise that provides one or more steam or heat bathing rooms or sauna of
steam room facilities, where the services provided are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified anatomical areas or specified sexual
activities, or from which minors are excluded by reason of age.
      (15)   OTHER ADULT USE. Any place to which the public is permitted, a
business or commercial enterprise that is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREA. Includes the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breast(s) below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discern by turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Includes the following:
      (1)   Actual or stimulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship and any of the following sexually-oriented acts or conduct:
anillingus; buggery; coprophagy; coprophilia; cunnilingus; fellatio;
necrophilia; pederast; pedophilia; piquerism; sapphism; zooerasty;
      (2)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal or tumescence;
      (3)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulations,
coitus or masturbation;
      (4)   Fondling or touching nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks or
female breast;
      (5)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude,
clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other
physical restraint of any such person;
      (6)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually-oriented
conduct with an animal by a human being; or
      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation.
(Prior Code, § 1101.05) (Ord. 2003-16, passed - -)
§ 117.05 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Primary adult uses.
      (1)   All primary adult uses shall require a conditional use permit.
      (2)   All primary adult uses shall be located within the I, Industrial
District.
      (3)   All primary adult uses shall be located at least the following
specified distances, measured radially in a straight line from the closest
point of the building or actual leased space of the primary adult use to the
property line of a protected use or other adult use, whether the protected use
is located in the City or an adjoining community:
         (a)   A distance of at least 250 feet from the following:
            1.   Licensed day care centers;
            2.   Public or private educational facilities classified as an
elementary, junior high or senior high schools;
            3.   Public libraries;
            4.   Public parks;
            5.   On-sale liquor establishments; and
            6.   Churches and church-related facilities.
         (b)   A distance of at least 400 feet from the following:
            1.   Other adult uses; and
            2.   Residential properties, unless separated from the residential
properties by a railroad right-of-way or a state highway.
      (4)   No primary adult use shall locate in any building which is also
utilized for any protected use.
      (5)   At the time of application for a conditional use permit, any
property that is proposed to be occupied by an primary adult use must comply
with all current zoning, health, fire and building regulations that apply to
the site and building.
      (6)   No primary adult use may occupy a lot with a lot width of less that
100 feet. In addition, each primary adult use shall provide one parking space
for each employee on duty, plus parking for customers:
         (a)   Motion picture theater: one space per six seats actually
provided or the maximum seating capacity of the theater.
         (b)   Motion picture arcade: one space per machine.
         (c)   All other primary adult uses: one space per 15 square feet of
floor area that is open to or used by the public or customers of the primary
adult use.
      (7)   All primary adult uses shall comply with the following sign
requirements.
         (a)   All signs shall be flat wall signs.
         (b)   The amount of allowable sign area shall be one square foot of
sign area per foot of lot frontage on a street.
         (c)   No merchandise or pictures of the products or entertainment on
the premises shall be displayed in window areas or any area where they can be
viewed from the sidewalk in front of the building.
         (d)   Window areas shall not be covered or made opaque in any way. No
signs shall be placed in any window. A one square foot sign shall be placed on
the door to state hours of operation and admittance is restricted to adults
only.
      (8)   Primary adult use businesses shall not be open between the hours of
1:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon.
   (B)   Accessory adult uses.
      (1)   All accessory adult uses shall require a conditional use permit.
      (2)   All accessory adult uses shall be located only within the I and B-
2 Districts.
      (3)   All accessory adult uses shall be located at least the following
specified distances, measured radially in a straight line from the closest
point of the building or actual leased space of the accessory adult use to the
property line of a protected use or other adult use, whether the protected use
is located in the City or an adjoining community:
         (a)   A distance of at least 250 feet from the following:
            1.   Residential properties;
            2.   Licensed day care centers;
            3.   Public or private educational facilities classified as an
elementary, junior high or senior high schools;
            4.   Public libraries;
            5.   Public parks;
            6.   On-sale liquor establishments; and
            7.   Churches and church-related facilities.
         (b)   A distance of at least 500 feet from the following: other adult
uses.
      (4)   No accessory adult use shall locate in any building which is also
utilized for any protected use.
      (5)   Accessory adult uses shall restrict and prohibit access to minors
by the physical separation from areas of general access of items that are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities.
         (a)   Movie rentals. Display areas for movies that are distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on specified anatomical areas or specified
sexual activities shall be restricted from general view and shall be located
within a separate room, the access or entrance to which is in clear view and
under control of the persons responsible for the operation or controlled in
some other effective manner which meets with the approval of the Zoning
Administrator.
         (b)   Magazines. Magazines that are distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis on specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities, shall
not be accessible to minors and shall be covered with a wrapper or other means
to prevent display of any materials other than the publication title.
         (c)   Other adult materials or services. Accessory adult uses offering
or providing items that are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities and that are not
specifically cited above shall comply with the intent of this section, subject
to the final approval of the City Council.
      (6)   Accessory adult uses shall be prohibited from external advertising
and signing of items that are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      (7)   At the time of application for the conditional use permit, any
property that is to be occupied by an accessory adult use must comply with all
the current zoning, health, fire and building regulations that apply to the
site and building.
(Prior Code, § 1101.05) (Ord. 2003-16, passed - -)
§ 117.06 LICENSING REQUIRED; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a sexually-oriented
business without a valid sexually-oriented business license issued by the City
pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   The application for a license must be made on a form provided by
the City.
      (3)   All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of
this chapter. The application may request and the applicant shall provide the
information (including fingerprints) as to enable the City to determine whether
the applicant meets the qualifications established in this chapter.
      (4)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business is
an individual, the person must sign the applicant for a license as applicant.
If the person who wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business is other than
an individual, then each individual who has a 20% or greater interest in the
business must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant
must be qualified under the following section and each applicant shall be
considered a licensee if a license is granted.
      (5)   The completed application for a sexually-oriented business license
shall contain the following information and shall be accompanied by the
following documents:
         (a)   If the applicant is:
            1.   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal
name and any aliases and submit proof that he or she is at least 18 years of
age;
            2.   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name
and the names of all partners whether the partnership is general or limited,
and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any; and
            3.   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of its state of incorporation, the names and capacity
of all officers, directors and principle stock holders, and the name of the
registered corporate agent and the address of the registered office for service
of process;
         (b)   The name of the owner of the property where the business will be
located;
         (c)   If the applicant intends to operate a sexually-oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, he or she must state:
            1.   The sexually-oriented business’s fictitious name; and
            2.   Submit the required registration documents.
         (d)   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant,
has been convicted of a specified criminal activity, as defined in this
chapter, and, if so, the specified criminal activity involved, the date, place
and jurisdiction of each;
         (e)   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant,
has had a previous license under this chapter or other similar sexually-
oriented business ordinances, from another City or county denied, suspended or
revoked, including the name and location of the sexually-oriented business for
which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the
denial, suspension or revocation, and whether the applicant, or person residing
with the applicant, has been a partner in a partnership or an officer, director
or principal stock holder of a corporation that is licensed under this chapter
whose license has previously been denied, suspended or revoked including the
name and location of the sexually-oriented business for which the permit was
denied, suspended or revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension or
revocation;
         (f)   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant,
holds any other licenses under this chapter or other similar sexually-oriented
business ordinances from other cities and counties and, if so, the names and
locations of such other licensed businesses;
         (g)   The location of the proposed sexually-oriented business,
including the legal description of the property, street address and telephone,
if any;
         (h)   The applicant’s mailing address and residential address;
         (i)   The applicant’s drivers license number, Social Security number
and his or her state or federally issued tax ID number;
         (j)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches;
         (k)   A straight-line drawing prepared within 30 days prior to the
application depicting the property lines and the structures containing any
existing sexually-oriented businesses within 500 feet of the property to be
licensed; the property lines of any established religious institution, school
or public park or recreation area, within 400 feet of the property to be
licensed. For purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing or
established if it is in existence at the time an application is submitted. The
drawing shall be reviewed by the City’s Building Inspector for accuracy. In the
event of a dispute between the applicant and the City as to the accuracy of the
drawing, the Building Inspector may order the applicant to provide a drawing
with the information required under this division (A)(5)(k) prepared by a
registered land surveyor; and
         (l)   A copy of the lease and all financing documents; all business
related contracts for supply of materials and consulting management.
   (B)   Issuance of licensing.
      (1)   Upon the filing of said application for a sexually-oriented
business license, the application shall be referred to the Chief of Police for
investigation to be made on such information as is contained in the
application. The application process shall be completed within 60 days from the
date the completed application is filed. After the investigation, the City
shall issue a license, unless it is determined that one or more of the
following findings is true:
         (a)   The applicant is under 18 years of age;
         (b)   The applicant, or person with whom the applicant is residing, is
over-due in payment to the City of taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed
against or imposed upon him or her in relation to any business;
         (c)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably
necessary for the issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
         (d)   An applicant, or person with whom the applicant is residing, has
been denied a license by the City to operate a sexually-oriented business
within the preceding 12 months or whose license to operate a sexually-oriented
business has been revoked within the preceding 12 months;
         (e)   An applicant, or person with whom the applicant is residing, has
been convicted of a specified criminal activity defined in this chapter;
         (f)   The premises to be used for the sexually-oriented business has
not been approved by the Health Department, Fire Department or the Building
Official as being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances;
         (g)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid; and
         (h)   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or
is not in compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, the address of
the sexually-oriented business and the classification for which the license is
issued pursuant to §
117.04 of this chapter all licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place at
or near the entrance to the sexually-oriented business so that they may be
easily read at any time.
      (3)   The Health Department, Fire Department and Building Official shall
complete their certification that the premises is in compliance or not in
compliance within 20 days of receipt of the application by the City.
      (4)   Every application for a sexually-oriented business license (whether
for a new license or for a renewal of an existing license) shall be accompanied
by a non-refundable application and investigation fee.
      (5)   In addition to the application and investigation fee required
above, every sexually-oriented business that is granted a license (new or
renewal) shall pay to the City an annual non-refundable license fee within 30
days of license issuance or renewal.
      (6)   All license applications and fees shall be submitted to the City
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   Inspection.
      (1)   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Police
Department, Fire Department, Zoning Department or other City departments or
agencies to inspect the premises of a sexually-oriented business for the
purpose of ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open
for business.
      (2)   A person who operates a sexually-oriented business or his or her
agent or employee commits a violation of this chapter if he or she refuses to
permit the lawful inspection of the premises at any time it is open for
business.
   (D)   Expiration of license.
      (1)   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and
may be renewed only by making application as provided herein. Application for
renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the expiration date.
      (2)   When the City denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not
be issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the City finds that the basis for denial of the renewal license has
been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90
days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
   (E)   Suspension and revocation.
      (1)   The City shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30 days
if it determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee has:
         (a)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this
chapter; and/or
         (b)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually-oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter.
      (2)   The City shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension occurs and
the license has been suspended within the preceding 12 months.
      (3)   The City shall revoke a license if it determines that:
         (a)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
         (b)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use or sale of
controlled substances on the premises;
         (c)   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
         (d)   A licensee knowingly operated the sexually-oriented business
during a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
         (e)   Except in the case of an adult motel, a licensee has knowingly
allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation,
other sex act to occur in or on the licensed premises; or
         (f)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the City, county or state
for any taxes or fees past due.
      (4)   When the City revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for
one year from the date the revocation became effective. If, subsequent to
revocation, the City finds that the basis for the revocation has been corrected
or abated, the applicant may be granted license if at least 90 days have
elapsed since the date the revocation became effective.
      (5)   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an
application, or suspension or revocation of any license, the applicant or
licensee may seek prompt judicial review of such administrative action in any
court or competent jurisdiction. The administrative action shall be promptly
reviewed by the court.
   (F)   Transfer of license. A licensee shall not transfer his or her license
to another, not shall a licensee operate a sexually-oriented business under the
authority of a license any place other than the address designated in the
application.
(Prior Code, § 1101.05) (Ord. 2003-16, passed - -)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates, neglects, refuses to comply with, or assists or
participates in any way in, the violation of any of the provisions or
requirements of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 1101.05) (Ord. 2003-16, passed - -)
CHAPTER 118: CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES
Section
   
118.01   Administration
   
118.02   Definitions
   
118.03   Registration of cannabis businesses
   
118.04   Locations ineligible for registration
   
118.05   Compliance checks
   
118.06   Location change
   
118.07   Renewal of registration
   
118.08   Suspension of registration
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Findings and purpose. The City Council of the City of Dundas makes the
following legislative findings: The purpose of this chapter is to implement the
provisions of M.S. Ch. 342, which authorizes the City of Dundas to protect the
public health, safety, welfare of City of Dundas residents by regulating
cannabis businesses within the legal boundaries of the City of Dundas.
   (B)   Authority and jurisdiction. 
      (1)   The City of Dundas has the authority to adopt this chapter pursuant
to M.S. § 342.13(c), regarding the authority of a local unit of government to
adopt reasonable restrictions of the time, place, and manner of the operation
of a cannabis business provided that such restrictions do not prohibit the
establishment or operation of cannabis businesses; and pursuant to M.S. §
342.22, regarding the local registration and enforcement requirements of state-
licensed cannabis retail businesses and lower- potency hemp edible retail
businesses.
      (2)   This chapter shall be applicable within the legal boundaries of the
City of Dundas.
   (C)   Enforcement. The City of Dundas is responsible for the administration
and enforcement of this chapter. Any violation of the provisions of this
chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements constitutes a
misdemeanor and is punishable as defined by law. Violations of this chapter can
occur regardless of whether or not a permit is required for a regulated
activity listed in this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 118.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise noted in this section, words and phrases contained in M.S.
§ 342.01, and the rules promulgated pursuant to any of these acts, shall have
the same meanings in this chapter.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION BUSINESS. A cannabis business licensed to grow cannabis
plants within the approved amount of space from seed or immature plant to
mature plant, harvest cannabis flower from mature plant, package and label
immature plants and seedlings and cannabis flower for sale to other cannabis
businesses, transport cannabis flower to a cannabis manufacturer located on the
same premises, and perform other actions approved by the OCM.
   CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESS. A retail location and the retail location(s) of
mezzobusinesses with a retail operations endorsement, microbusinesses with a
retail operations endorsement, medical combination businesses operating a
retail location, excluding lower-potency hemp edible retailers.
   CANNABIS RETAILER. Any person, partnership, firm, corporation, or
association, foreign or domestic, selling cannabis product to a consumer and
not for the purpose of resale in any form.
   DAYCARE. A location licensed with the Minnesota Department of Human Services
to provide the care of a child in a residence outside the child’s own home for
gain or otherwise, on a regular basis, for any part of a 24-hour day.
   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. As defined under M.S. § 342.01, subd. 50.
   OFFICE OF CANNABIS MANAGEMENT. The Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management,
referred to as OCM in this chapter.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A business, accommodation, refreshment,
entertainment, recreation, or transportation facility of any kind, whether
licensed or not, whose goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages or
accommodations are extended, offered, sold, or otherwise made available to the
public.
   PRELIMINARY LICENSE APPROVAL. OCM pre-approval for a cannabis business
license for applicants who qualify under M.S. § 342.17.
   PUBLIC PLACE. A public park or trail, public street or sidewalk; any
enclosed, indoor area used by the general public, including, but not limited
to, restaurants; bars; any other food or liquor establishment; hospitals;
nursing homes; auditoriums; arenas; gyms; meeting rooms; common areas of rental
apartment buildings; and other places of public accommodation.
   RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY. As defined under M.S. § 245.462, subd. 23.
   RETAIL REGISTRATION. An approved registration issued by the City of Dundas
to a state-licensed cannabis retail business.
   SCHOOL. A public school as defined under M.S. § 120A.05, or a nonpublic
school that must meet the reporting requirements under M.S. § 120A.24.
   STATE LICENSE. An approved license issued by the State of Minnesota’s Office
of Cannabis Management to a cannabis retail business.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 118.03 REGISTRATION OF CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Registration required. No individual or entity may operate a state-
licensed cannabis retail business within the limits of the City of Dundas
without first registering with the City of Dundas.
   (B)   Registrations limited. The number of cannabis retail business
registrations that may be issued is limited to one.
   (C)   Compliance checks, zoning verification prior to retail registration.
Prior to issuance of a cannabis retail business registration, the City of
Dundas shall conduct a preliminary compliance check to ensure compliance with
local zoning ordinances. Pursuant to M.S. Ch. 342, within 30 days of receiving
a copy of a state license application from OCM, the City of Dundas shall
certify on a form provided by OCM whether a proposed cannabis retail business
complies with local zoning ordinances and, if applicable, whether the proposed
business complies with the State Fire Code and Building Code.
   (D)   Fees. A registration fee will be charged to applicants, as set forth
in § 34.10. The initial registration fee includes the fee for initial retail
registration and the first annual renewal of the registration. A renewal fee
will be charged at the time of the second renewal and each subsequent renewal
thereafter, as set forth in §
34.01. All fees are non-refundable.
   (E)   Application procedure.
      (1)   An applicant for a retail registration must fill out an application
form, as provided by the City of Dundas. The applicant must provide all
information required by the form, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Full name(s) of the property owner and applicant;
         (b)   Address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant;
         (c)   Address and parcel ID for the property which the retail
registration is sought; and
         (d)   Certification that the applicant complies with the requirements
of local ordinances established pursuant to M.S. § 342.13.
      (2)   The application must be accompanied by:
         (a)   The registration fee as required by division (D); and
         (b)   A copy of a valid state license or written notice of OCM license
preapproval.
      (3)   Once an application is considered complete, the City of Dundas City
Clerk shall inform the applicant as such, process the registration fees, and
forward the application to the City Council for approval or denial. The
registration fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
   (F)   Application approval.
      (1)   An application shall not be approved if the cannabis retail
business would exceed the maximum number of registered cannabis retail
businesses permitted under division (B).
      (2)   An application shall not be approved or renewed if the applicant is
unable to meet the requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   An application that meets divisions (F)(1) and (F)(2) above and the
following requirements shall be approved:
         (a)   The applicant must have a valid license issued by the OCM that
allows retail sales;
         (b)   The applicant must have paid the registration fee or renewal fee
required by this section;
         (c)   The location for the cannabis retail business must comply with
applicable zoning ordinances; and
         (d)   All property taxes and assessments for the location where the
retail establishment will be located must be current.
   (G)   Non-transferable. Registrations issued under this chapter may not be
transferred to other state-licensed cannabis businesses.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 118.04 LOCATIONS INELIGIBLE FOR REGISTRATION.
   No cannabis retail business may be located:
   (A)   Within 1,000 feet from any school or within 500 feet from any
attraction within a public park that is regularly used by minors, such as
playgrounds, athletic facilities, splash pads, and beaches; or
   (B)   On a property with delinquent property taxes, assessments, or other
financial claims of a government agency.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 118.05 COMPLIANCE CHECKS.
   (A)   From time to time, but at least once per calendar year, the City of
Dundas will complete unannounced age compliance checks of every cannabis
business to assess if the business meets age verification requirements, as
required by state law and this chapter.
   (B)   The City will conduct a compliance check that involves the
participation of a person at least 17 years of age, but under the age of 21, to
enter the registered premises to attempt to purchase adult-use cannabis flower,
adult-use cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived
consumer products. Persons under the age of 18 may participate only with the
prior written consent of a parent or guardian. All persons used for the purpose
of compliance checks must be directly supervised by law enforcement or other
designated personnel. No person used in compliance checks may attempt to use a
form of identification that misrepresents the person's age. All persons
lawfully engaged in a compliance check must answer all questions about their
age asked by the licensee or their employee, and produce any identification, if
any exists, for which they are asked.
   (C)   The City will report any failures under this chapter to the Office of
Cannabis Management.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 118.06 LOCATION CHANGE.
   A state-licensed cannabis retail business is required to submit a new
application for registration under §
118.03 if it seeks to move to a new location within the City of Dundas.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 118.07 RENEWAL OF REGISTRATION.
   A registered cannabis retail business must apply for renewal annually, at
the time its state license is renewed. Registration renewals are processed
according to the procedure in §
118.03.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 118.08 SUSPENSION OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Suspension. The City may suspend a cannabis retail business’s
registration for up to 30 days upon a determination that:
      (1)   The business is not operating in compliance with state law or City
ordinance; or
      (2)   That the operation of the business poses an immediate threat to the
health or safety of the public.
   (B)   Notification; OCM investigation. When the City determines that a
suspension is warranted, the City must promptly send a written notice to the
registered cannabis retail business and to the OCM. The notice must inform the
business and OCM of the pending or immediate suspension of the registration, as
provided at division (C) of this section, the length of the suspension period,
and the grounds for the suspension.
   (C)   Effective date of suspension. A suspension issued by the City under
division (A)(1) of this section will not become effective until the OCM has
determined whether to suspend the state license of the registered cannabis
retail business. The City’s suspension period will run concurrently with any
suspension of license by the OCM. A suspension issued by the City under
division (A)(2) of this section will be effective on the date stated in the
notice.
   (D)   Reinstatement. The City may reinstate a suspended registration if the
City determines that all violations have been cured, and must reinstate the
registration if the OCM orders reinstatement.
   (E)   No sales. A cannabis retail business may not make sales to customers
while its registration is suspended.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties. Subject to M.S. § 342.22, subd. 5(e), the City of
Dundas may impose a civil penalty, as specified in §
34.01, for registration violations, not to exceed $2,000.
   (B)   Criminal penalties. Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or
failure to comply with any of its requirements constitutes a misdemeanor and is
punishable as defined by law.
(Ord. 2024-2, passed 11-25-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES RELATING TO PROPERTY
      
131.   OFFENSES RELATING TO WEAPONS
      
132.   OFFENSES RELATING TO MINORS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES RELATING TO PROPERTY
Section
Graffiti
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Conduct prohibited
   
130.03   Removal by owner
   
130.04   Removal by City
   
130.05   Compliance by City
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GRAFFITI
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GRAFFITI. In addition to its usual and customary meaning of defacing walls
or structures with messages or slogans, GRAFFITI shall also mean any letter,
numeral, figure, emblem, insignia, picture, outline, character, spectacle,
delineation, announcement, word, phrase, diagram, symbol, sketch, inscription
or representation, wherein the contents thereof are visible to any member of
the general public and which contains references to sexual activity, diagrams
relating to sexual activity or sexual organs, references to criminal activities
or groups which promote or are involved in criminal activity, swearing or
fighting words, defamatory materials about any person, references to
relationships or any marking of any kind whatsoever which results in damage to,
defacing of, marring of or discoloring of any sidewalk, street or other public
surface, any vehicle, any equipment, lamp, lamp post or other City property, or
of the exterior surface of a wall, fence, door, building or other structure,
whether publicly or privately owned.
   OWNER. The owner of record of the subject property, whether public or
private, at the time of the placement or discovery of the graffiti or at a
subsequent time, the beneficial owner under a land trust, the contract
purchaser or that person or persons or trust in whose name the general taxes
for the last preceding year were paid; except that, OWNER shall not include the
City.
(Prior Code, § 1300.01)
§ 130.02 CONDUCT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to inscribe, draw or otherwise place or
cause to be placed any graffiti upon the surface of any building, structure,
wall or surface of other property that is publicly or privately owned.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or legal guardian to knowingly
permit any minor child in his or her custody or control to violate division (A)
above.
   (C)   The parent or legal guardian of a minor defendant who resides with the
parent or legal guardian at the time of the offense may be held liable for any
fine or condition of restitution or reparation imposed by a court upon a minor
for violation of this section; provided that, minor has not paid the fine or
made restitution or reparation within the time ordered by the court; and,
further provided that, the parent or legal guardian has been served with
summons or notice to appear whether in the original cause or in any subsequent
proceedings arising therefrom, including sentencing or collection actions, as
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1300.02) Penalty, see §
130.99 
§ 130.03 REMOVAL BY OWNER.
   (A)   Owner’s responsibility. It shall be the duty of the owner of the
structure or wall or other private property upon which any graffiti is placed
or made to remove, eradicate or eliminate the inscription or representation
within 30 days of the occurrence unless granted additional time by the City
Council.
   (B)   Notice to remove graffiti. In the event the owner has failed to
eliminate the graffiti, the owner shall be notified by certified mail or
personal notice that he or she has 30 days from the date of the notice in which
to remove the graffiti. In the event that charges have been filed against the
person believed responsible for placement of the graffiti and the owner can
show to the City that there is a reasonable likelihood that the person will be
required to make restitution or restore the premises to its previous condition,
the owner may be given additional time to meet the removal requirements. In no
event shall the owner be granted more than a total of six months’ time to
remove graffiti, but any extensions shall be based solely upon a reasonable
likelihood of apprehension and conviction of the person responsible. In the
absence of the reasonable likelihood, the owner is responsible for removal
within the time allowed in division (A) above and this division (B).
   (C)   List of contractors and cleaning materials. The City may make
available a list of contractors in the business of removing graffiti and list
of cleaning materials generally recognized in the industry as effective in the
removal of graffiti. By providing lists of contractors and cleaning materials,
the City does not guarantee the quality or adequacy of work performed by anyone
selected by owner or the effectiveness or safety of the materials listed, and
the City expressly disclaims responsibility or liability for the quality or
adequacy of the work or materials or any claims for damage or injury arising
therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 1300.03)
§ 130.04 REMOVAL BY CITY.
   (A)   (1)   The City shall have the right, but not the duty, to remove
graffiti from the exterior of private property if the owner informs the City of
the presence of the graffiti and of the owner’s inability to remove it. Prior
to the City entering any private property to remove graffiti, the owner must
sign a statement authorizing removal by the City and agreeing to pay the
reasonable costs of the removal and to allow the recording of a lien against
the real estate upon which the work was performed if the cost is not paid to
the City within 30 days of the date of the invoice sent to the owner. The owner
must also sign a release holding the City harmless from any claims or suits
brought for damages pursuant to any adverse or injurious effects of the
chemicals or from the actions taken by the City or its employees to remove the
graffiti prior to the City commencing work on the property.
      (2)   If the property owner does not remove the graffiti within the time
specified or extended time requested and granted by the City or if the City is
unable to perform the work at the request of the owner, the owner shall be
subject to the penalties listed in §
130.99(B) of this chapter.
   (B)   If the City performs the graffiti removal pursuant to division (A)
above, it shall be entitled to a lien and to file a notice of lien against the
property upon which the work was performed for the cost of the removal.
(Prior Code, § 1300.04)
§ 130.05 COMPLIANCE BY CITY.
   (A)   It is the intention of the City that graffiti discovered upon City
property or public property under the jurisdiction and control of the City will
be removed within the time periods for graffiti removal imposed upon other
governmental bodies and owners of private property under this section. The City
Council shall have the authority to order and direct the removal of graffiti.
   (B)   A designated City officer, or his or her designee, shall provide, no
less than semi-annually, a written report to the City Council of graffiti
incidents involving City property and removal efforts by the City. The report
shall include at a minimum the location of the graffiti, charges filed against
or convictions of offenders where relevant, the date and methods of graffiti
removal undertaken by the City and the cost of the removal.
(Prior Code, § 1300.06) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Upon a finding of guilty for violation of §
130.02 of this chapter, an offender shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Additionally, the court may, as a condition
of probation, supervision or conditional discharge, require that the party
guilty of violating the provisions of §
130.02 of this chapter make full and complete restitution to the owner of the
property for expenses incurred in the removal of the graffiti or, with the
consent of the owner, restore the structure, wall, building or surface to its
previous condition. In addition, the court may order as a further penalty
community service in the form of time to be spent in cleaning property that has
been defaced by graffiti in any location in the City.
      (2)   Upon a finding of guilty for violation of §
130.03(A) of this chapter, an offender shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each and every day that graffiti is permitted
to remain beyond the time specified in §
130.03(B) of this chapter shall constitute a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 1300.05)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES RELATING TO WEAPONS
Section
Firearms
   
131.01   Discharging firearms
   
131.02   Carrying firearms
   
131.03   Exceptions
   
131.04   Conflict with state statute
FIREARMS
§ 131.01 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   No person shall discharge any firearm, air gun or air rifle within the
corporate limits of the City, except under special permit granted by the City
Council upon application made to it; provided, however, that, this shall not
prohibit the use of firearms in lawful defense of person or property or the
enforcement of law.
(Prior Code, § 1301.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 CARRYING FIREARMS.
   No firearm shall be carried uncased or loaded upon any street or sidewalk or
any public place, except by duly constituted and acting law enforcement
officers.
(Prior Code, § 1301.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not prohibit the firing of a military salute or the
firing of weapons by persons of the nation’s armed forces acting under military
authority, and shall not apply to law enforcement officials in the proper
enforcement of the law, or to any person in the proper exercise of the right of
self defense, or to any person otherwise lawfully permitted by proper federal,
state or local authorities to discharge a firearm in a manner contrary to the
provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 1301.03)
§ 131.04 CONFLICT WITH STATE STATUTE.
   If any of the above provisions are found to be in conflict with M.S. §
624.717, as it may be amended from time to time, the provisions of that statute
shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 1301.04)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES RELATING TO MINORS
Section
Curfew
   
132.01   Purpose
   
132.02   Definitions
   
132.03   Hours
   
132.04   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor
   
132.05   Exceptions
   
132.06   Duties of person legally responsible for minor
   
132.07   Duties of other persons
   
132.08   Duty of police officers
   
132.09   Defense
Social Hosting
   
132.20   Title
   
132.21   Authority
   
132.22   Purpose
   
132.23   Jurisdiction
   
132.24   Definitions
   
132.25   Prohibited acts
   
132.26   Exceptions
   
132.27   Enforcement
 
   
132.99   Penalty
CURFEW
§ 132.01 PURPOSE.
   The curfew for minors established by this subchapter is maintained for four
primary reasons:
   (A)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during the
curfew hours;
   (B)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
   (C)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the curfew
hours; and
   (D)   To help parents control their minor children.
(Prior Code, § 1302.01)
§ 132.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor’s household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or Fire Department
personnel, and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
   OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference to the master
clock used by the Police Department.
   PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT OR REFRESHMENT. Those places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants and pool halls.
   PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for providing
food, clothing, shelter and other basic necessities to the minor. The person
providing PRIMARY CARE OR CUSTODY to the minor shall not be another minor.
   SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
(Prior Code, § 1302.02)
§ 132.03 HOURS.
   (A)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age of 16 years
shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other
public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official City time.
   (B)   Minors ages 16 years to 18 years. No minor of the ages of 16 or 17
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official City time.
(Prior Code, § 1302.03) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 EFFECT ON CONTROL BY ADULT RESPONSIBLE FOR MINOR.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to give a minor the right to
stay out until the curfew hours designated in this subchapter if otherwise
directed by a parent, guardian or other adult person having the primary care
and custody of the minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or
impair the control of the adult person having the primary care or custody of
the minor.
(Prior Code, § 1302.04)
§ 132.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply in the following
situations:
   (A)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian or other adult
person having the primary care and custody of the minor;
   (B)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his or
her parent, guardian or other adult person having the primary care and custody
of the minor;
   (C)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if in
connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business trade, profession or occupation and the minor’s
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor’s presence at work;
   (D)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from an
event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the City,
a civic organization, school, religious institution or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor’s
parent, guardian or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor;
   (E)   To a minor who is passing through the City in the course of interstate
travel during the hours of curfew;
   (F)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly or freedom of religion;
   (G)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
City’s designated law enforcement provider about the minor’s presence; and/or
   (H)   To a minor who is married, or has been married, or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
(Prior Code, § 1302.05)
§ 132.06 DUTIES OF PERSON LEGALLY RESPONSIBLE FOR MINOR.
   No parent, guardian or other adult having the primary care or custody of any
minor shall permit any violation of the requirements of this subchapter by the
minor.
(Prior Code, § 1302.06) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.07 DUTIES OF OTHER PERSONS.
   No person operating or in charge of any place of amusement, entertainment or
refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or remain in his or her place of
business during the hours prohibited by this subchapter unless the minor is
accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person having primary
care or custody of the minor, or unless one of the exceptions to this section
apply.
(Prior Code, § 1302.07) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.08 DUTY OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Each member of the police force while on duty in the City is hereby
authorized and instructed to arrest, without warrant, any person violating the
provisions of §
132.01 of this chapter. The person or persons so arrested shall, for a first
violation of this subchapter, be taken or sent by the officer to their homes,
and their parents or guardians notified of the violation of this subchapter;
upon a subsequent violation of the provisions of this subchapter, the person or
persons so arrested shall be taken or sent home by the officer and the parents
or guardians served with subpoenas to appear in court with the person or
persons so arrested, and show cause why this subchapter has been a second time
violated by them. If no sufficient excuse therefor is offered, the parents or
guardians shall be fined according to the provisions of division (B) below.
   (B)   Any police officer arresting the child or minor person, if the child
or minor person either has no home or guardian, or refuses to give the name and
address of the home or guardian to the officer, shall place the child or minor
person in the care of the proper authorities. Pending necessary investigation
and placement, no child or minor person shall be detained in custody of the
police for more than 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § 1302.08)
§ 132.09 DEFENSE.
   It shall be a defense to prosecution under this subchapter that the owner,
operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified the City’s
designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the premises of
the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
(Prior Code, § 1302.09) Penalty, see §
132.99
SOCIAL HOSTING
§ 132.20 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be titled and referred to as the “Social Host
Ordinance”.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 9-23-2013)
§ 132.21 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to M.S. § 145A.05, subd. 1, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 9-23-2013)
§ 132.22 PURPOSE.
   Events and gatherings held on private property where alcohol is possessed or
consumed by persons under 21 years old are harmful to those persons and
constitute a potential threat to public health requiring prevention and
abatement. Holding a person criminally responsible for hosting an event or
gathering where underage possessions or consumption of alcohol occurs will
serve as a deterrent.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 9-23-2013)
§ 132.23 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter shall apply to the incorporated area of the City.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 9-23-2013)
§ 132.24 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl or spirits of wine, whiskey,
rum, brandy, gin or any other distilled spirits including dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer and every liquid or
solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and which contains 0.5% or
more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage purposes either alone
or when diluted, mixed or combined with other substances.
   EVENT or GATHERING. A group of three or more persons who have assembled or
gathered together for a social occasion or other activity.
   HOST. To aid, conduct, allow, entertain, organize, supervise, control or
permit an event or gathering whether the host is present or not.
   PARENT. A person having the following relationship with a person under 21
years:
      (1)   A natural parent, adoptive parent or step-parent;
      (2)   Legal guardian; and/or
      (3)   A person to whom legal custody has been given by order of a court.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, co-partnership, corporation or an
association of one or more individuals. PERSON does not include a city, county
or state agency.
   REASONABLE STEPS. Include:
      (1)   Controlling access to alcohol and alcoholic beverages in a manner
that no underage person has access to the alcohol and alcoholic beverages at
the gathering or event;
      (2)   Directly supervising the activities of underage persons at the
gathering event either in person or through a responsible adult;
      (3)   Checking identification of the attendees of the gathering to
determine age; or
      (4)   Other actions made by the person to prevent possession or
consumption of alcohol or alcoholic beverages by the underage person(s)
present.
   RESIDENCE or PREMISES. Any location, including a home, yard, farm, field,
land, apartment, condominium, hotel room or other dwelling unit, or a hall or
meeting room, park or any other place of assembly, public or private, whether
occupied on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or
specifically for a party or other social function, and whether owned, leased,
rented or used with or without permission or compensation.
   UNDERAGE PERSON. An individual under 21 years of age.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 9-23-2013)
§ 132.25 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It is unlawful for a person to:
   (A)   Host a gathering or event at a residence or premises where alcohol or
alcoholic beverages are present and the person knows that an underage person
either:
      (1)   Consumes alcohol or an alcoholic beverage; or
      (2)   Possesses alcohol or an alcoholic beverage with the intent to
consume the alcohol or alcoholic beverage; and the person fails to take
reasonable steps to prevent possession or consumption by the underage person.
   (B)   Intentionally aid, advise, hire, counsel or conspire with or otherwise
procure another to commit the prohibited act described above.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 9-23-2013) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.26 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Consumption of alcohol by an underage person in the parent’s home and
with the parent’s permission;
   (B)   Legally protected religious observances;
   (C)   Retail intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor licenses, municipal
liquor stores or bottle club permit holders who are regulated under M.S. §
340A.503, subd. 1(a)(1), as it may be amended from time to time; or
   (D)   Situations where underage persons are lawfully in possession of
alcohol or alcoholic beverages during the course and scope of employment.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 9-23-2013)
§ 132.27 ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter can be enforced by any police officer or Sheriff’s Deputy
with jurisdiction in the City.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 9-23-2013)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Minors. Any minor found to be in violation of §§
132.01 through
132.09 of this chapter may be adjudicated delinquent and shall be subject to
the dispositional alternatives set forth in M.S. § 260B.198, as it may be
amended from time to time.
      (2)   Adults. Any adult person found to be in violation of §§
132.01 through
132.09 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 1399.00)
   (C)   Any person who violates §§
132.20 through
132.27 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punishable by a fine, imprisonment or both.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 9-23-2013)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS CODE
      
152.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
153.   TREES AND SHRUBBERY
      
154.   ZONING
      
155.   ANNEXATION RESERVE DISTRICT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
State Building Code
   
150.01   Code adopted by reference
   
150.02   Application, administration and enforcement
   
150.03   Permits and fees
   
150.04   Optional chapters
Moving Buildings
   
150.15   Definitions
   
150.16   Permit required
   
150.17   Application
   
150.18   Security requirements
   
150.19   Duties of the Building Official
   
150.20   Review by Planning Commission and approval by City Council
   
150.21   Permit expiration and extensions
   
150.22   Designated streets for moving
   
150.23   Duties of permit holder
   
150.24   Liability of permit holder to City
   
150.25   Return of fees and deposits
Land Filling
   
150.40   Permit required
   
150.41   Application for permit
   
150.42   Technical reports
   
150.43   Issuance of permit
   
150.44   Conditions of operation
   
150.45   Bonding
   
150.46   Failure to comply
   
150.47   Completion of operation
Open Pits and Excavations
   
150.60   Definitions
   
150.61   Permit required
   
150.62   Permit application, issuance, fee
   
150.63   Conditions of permit
   
150.64   Bond may be required
   
150.65   Council may have work done
   
150.66   Violation
 
   
150.99   Penalty
STATE BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Minnesota State Building Code, as adopted by the Commissioner of Labor
and Industry pursuant to M.S. Ch. 326B, as it may be amended from time to time,
including all of the amendments, rules and regulations established, adopted and
published from time to time by the Minnesota Commissioner of Labor and
Industry, through the Construction Codes and Licensing Division, is hereby
adopted by reference with the exception of the optional chapters, unless
specifically adopted in this subchapter. The Minnesota State Building Code is
hereby incorporated in this subchapter as if fully set out herein.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 150.02 APPLICATION, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The application, administration and enforcement of the code shall be
in accordance with Minnesota State Building Code. The code shall be enforced
within the extraterritorial limits permitted by M.S. § 326B.121, subd. 2(d), as
it may be amended from time to time, when so established by this subchapter.
   (B)   The code enforcement agency of the municipality is called the Building
Inspection Department.
   (C)   This code shall be enforced by the state’s Certified Building Official
appointed by the City Council to administer the code in accordance with M.S. §
326B.133, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 150.03 PERMITS AND FEES.
   The issuance of permits and the collection of fees shall be as authorized in
Minn. Rules Ch. 1300. Permit fees shall be assessed for work governed by this
code in accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the City Council from time
to time. In addition, a surcharge fee shall be collected on all permits issued
for work governed by this code in accordance with M.S. § 326B.148, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 150.04 OPTIONAL CHAPTERS.
   (A)   State Building Code, Ch. 1300, allows the municipality to adopt by
reference and enforce certain optional chapters of the most current edition of
the Minnesota State Building Code.
   (B)   The City has adopted none of the optional chapters of the Building
Code.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-14-2014)
MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. A structure or manufactured home designed, built or occupied as a
shelter or roofed enclosure for residential, business, mercantile, storage,
commercial, industrial, institutional, assembly, educational or recreational
purposes. A structure of less than 120 square feet floor area shall not fall
within this definition.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Building Official of Dundas or authorized
representative.
   CITY. The City of Dundas.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Dundas.
   OWNER. A person or persons who have purchased the building and will be the
owner once it is upon a foundation in the new setting.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 1109.01)
§ 150.16 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall move any building into or out of the City over, along
or across any street or alley in the City without first obtaining a permit from
the Building Official.
   (B)   The permit from the Building Official shall regulate the hours,
routing, movement, parking and speed limit for any persons moving any building
or buildings in the City.
(Prior Code, § 1109.02) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17 APPLICATION.
   A person seeking issuance of a permit hereunder shall file an application
for a permit with the Building Official.
   (A)   Form. The application shall be made in writing upon forms provided by
the Building Official, available at City offices, and shall be filed in the
office of the Building Official and shall contain such information as the
Building Official shall find necessary to determine whether a permit shall be
issued.
   (B)   Accompanying papers.
      (1)   Tax certificate. The owner of the building to be moved shall file
evidence that all real estate taxes and special assessments against the
building and lot from which it is to be removed are paid in full.
      (2)   Certificate of ownership. The applicant, if other than the owner,
shall file written evidence that he, she or they are entitled to move the
building.
      (3)   Consent of public utility company. The applicant shall file, prior
to issuance of a permit, written evidence of arrangements with all public
utility companies whose wires, lamps or poles are required to be removed for
the removal thereof by the company.
      (4)   Proof of commissioners bond/license. The moving contractor/
applicant shall present proof of a building mover license/bond as issued by the
state’s Public Service Commission in conformity with M.S. § 221.81, as it may
be amended from time to time.
      (5)   Listing of area properties. An accurate listing showing all
property owner names and addresses within 350 feet of the outer boundaries of
the property to which the building is to be moved.
      (6)   Site plan and elevation drawings. The applicant shall provide a
certificate of survey of the property to which the building is to be moved
showing property and building elevations, building setbacks and any easements
thereon. Elevation drawings shall specify siding and roofing material to be
used. At the City’s discretion, photographs may be substituted for building
elevation drawings.
      (7)   Hazard removal documents. Sufficient certificates or evidence shall
be presented demonstrating that the building has been abated for rodents,
asbestos and other harmful materials prior to its being brought into the City
limits.
   (C)   Fee. The application shall be accompanied by a building permit fee, as
established by §
34.01 of this code of ordinances. After approval of the moving permit, a
building permit fee, which fee is to be determined by the Building Official
based on the value of all Building Code upgrades, all expenses necessary for
site preparation including final grading, and all other expenses associated
with the moving and placing of the building onto the lot, will be assessed.
(Prior Code, § 1109.03)
§ 150.18 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Bond. Any person filing an application hereunder shall file with the
City Clerk-Treasurer a bond, approved as to form by the City Attorney, and
executed by a corporate surety company authorized to do business in the state,
in the amount of $10,000, conditioned upon the compliance by the applicant with
this and other applicable ordinances and laws, and payment to the City of all
fees, fines and penalties required by this subchapter.
   (B)   Cash deposit and time limit.
      (1)   After the review of the building permit, the Building Official
shall perform a walk-through of the structure proposed to be moved. The
Building Official shall determine what, if any, deficiencies exist and estimate
the cost to bring the structure up to all current building and mechanical
codes.
      (2)   The person filing the application shall make a deposit in cash or
in the form of a cashier’s check or an additional bond to the City in the
amount of the difference between the $10,000 bond and the estimated cost of
repairs to bring the building up to code. This deposit shall be forfeited if
the building is not set upon a proper foundation and all repairs as determined
necessary by the Building Official made within 120 days of issuance of permit.
(Prior Code, § 1109.04)
§ 150.19 DUTIES OF THE BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The Building Official shall inspect the building and the applicant’s
equipment to determine whether the following standards for issuance of a permit
are met, and shall refuse to issue a permit if it is found that any one or more
of the following conditions exist:
   (A)   Application requirements. The application requirements herein have not
been complied with or fees have not been paid;
   (B)   Building size. The building is too large to move without endangering
persons or property in the City;
   (C)   Building condition. The building is in such poor condition that it
cannot be moved without endangering persons or property in the City;
   (D)   Building unsafe for proposed use. The building is structurally unsafe
or unfit for the purpose proposed, if the location to which the building is to
be moved is in the City;
   (E)   Ordinance or code violations. Zoning, building codes or other
ordinances would be violated by the building in its new location;
   (F)   Unsafe moving equipment. The moving equipment is unsafe and that
persons or property would be endangered by its use; and/or
   (G)   General endangerment. For any other reason persons or property in the
City would be endangered by the moving of the building.
(Prior Code, § 1109.05)
§ 150.20 REVIEW BY PLANNING COMMISSION AND APPROVAL BY CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Planning Commission review. Following approval by the Building
Official, the building’s compatibility with the surrounding area shall be
reviewed by the Planning Commission, which shall make a recommendation to the
City Council. The following items shall be considered in this review:
      (1)   Age of surrounding structures versus the structure being moved into
the new location;
      (2)   Height compatibility with other structures in the area;
      (3)   Air, sunlight, solar rights;
      (4)   Aesthetics of the building to be moved; and
      (5)   Effect on property values in the area.
   (B)   City Council approval. Approval by a majority of the City Council in a
regular meeting is required prior to issuance of a permit.
   (C)   Other conditions. Before issuing a permit, the Council may require as
a condition to the issuance of the permit, such other conditions as the Council
feels are necessary for public safety, welfare and health, and may require the
applicant for the permit to enter into an agreement with the City, the
performance of which may be required to be guaranteed by a bond or other cash
deposit, for the performance of such conditions as the Council may require.
(Prior Code, § 1109.06)
§ 150.21 PERMIT EXPIRATION AND EXTENSIONS.
   All permits granted under the provisions of this subchapter shall expire in
120 days after the permit is originally issued, unless extended in writing by
an affirmative vote of a majority of the Council at a regular meeting. The
Council shall not grant any extensions without good cause being first shown,
and unless the extension was applied for prior to the expiration of the regular
permit.
(Prior Code, § 1109.07)
§ 150.22 DESIGNATED STREETS FOR MOVING.
   Following permit approval, the Building Official shall procure from the
Street Commissioner a list of designated streets over which the building may be
moved. The Building Official shall have the list approved by the Chief of
Police and shall reproduce the list upon the permit in writing. In making this
determination, the Street Commissioner and the Chief of Police shall act to
assure maximum safety to persons and property in the City and to minimize
congestion and traffic hazards on public streets.
(Prior Code, § 1109.08)
§ 150.23 DUTIES OF PERMIT HOLDER.
   Every permit holder under this subchapter shall:
   (A)   Use of designated streets. Move a building only over streets
designated in the written permit;
   (B)   Notification of revised moving time. Notify the Building Official, in
writing, of a desired change in moving date and hours from that proposed in the
application;
   (C)   Notification of damage. Notify the Building Official, in writing, of
any and all damage done to property belonging to the City or any public utility
within 24 hours after the damage or injury has occurred;
   (D)   Display lights. Ensure red lights are displayed, and barriers are
erected across streets, to warn and protect the public from dangers of the
moving. Warning lights with open flames shall not be used;
   (E)   Street occupancy period. Remove the building from the City streets
after 24 hours of occupancy upon the streets, unless an extension is granted by
the Council;
   (F)   Comply with governing law. Comply with the Building Code, Zoning
Ordinance and all other applicable ordinances and laws upon relocating the
building in the City;
   (G)   Pay expenses of specified staff. Pay the expenses of a traffic officer
ordered by the Chief of Police to accompany the movement of the building to
protect the public from injury. Pay the expenses of the Building Official for
walk-through inspection(s) and repairs estimate;
   (H)   Clear old premises. Remove, on any lot where a building or structure
is removed, the foundation walls and basement flooring before the excavation is
filled or leveled. A special exception may be made if the owner submits a
letter stating that this lot will not be used for any building. After receiving
the letter, the City shall make a determination of whether or not the flooring
and the foundation walls may remain. If the foundation walls are to remain,
they shall be leveled to a point three feet below final grade and if the
flooring is to remain there shall be holes put through the flooring so that
water will be able to drain through the floor; and
   (I)   Street occupancy period.
      (1)   Prior to any building being removed, review with the Building
Official the procedure for disconnecting or plugging the sanitary sewer service
lead and water service lead. Prior to filling the hole, contact the Building
Official to inspect that the utilities connections have been properly taken
care of. Also, contact all other public utilities and have them disconnect
services in a proper way. This shall be done before any deposit is returned to
the applicant;
      (2)   Complete promptly and within 120 days after moving, all remodeling,
additions or repairs as shown on the plans accompanying the application,
sufficient to secure a certificate of occupancy; and
      (3)   Level and seed the property from which a structure is removed if
construction is not going to begin within 60 days from the date of building
removal.
(Prior Code, § 1109.09)
§ 150.24 LIABILITY OF PERMIT HOLDER TO CITY.
   (A)   Excess costs or damages. The permit holder shall be liable for any
expense, damage or costs in excess of deposited amounts or securities.
   (B)   Original premises left unsafe. If the original building site is within
the City, the City shall proceed to complete the work necessary to leaving the
original premises in a safe and sanitary condition, where the permit holder
does not comply with the requirements of this subchapter within the required 60
days, and after a ten-day written notice to the permit holder. The cost thereof
shall be charged against the cash deposit. If the expenses that exceed the cash
deposit are not paid, these costs shall be certified to the County Auditor for
collection on the real property taxes.
   (C)   Remodeling not completed. If remodeling, additions or repairs
specified in the permit application are not completed prior to expiration of
the permit, the City may complete the work, after a ten-day written notice,
with these costs charged to deposits and securities posted by the permit
holder. Should these funds be insufficient to pay the costs of completion, the
City may, at its option, certify the unpaid balance to the County Auditor for
collection on the real property taxes, or the City may, at its option, proceed
to collect the unpaid balance by an action against the person to whom the
permit has been issued, or his or her superiors, as the Council may determine.
(Prior Code, § 1109.10)
§ 150.25 RETURN OF FEES AND DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Return upon non-issuance. Upon refusal to issue a permit, the Building
Official shall direct the Clerk-Treasurer to return all deposits to the
applicant.
   (B)   Return upon allowance for expenses. After the building has been moved
and required work completed, the Building Official shall furnish the Council
with a written statement of all expenses incurred and of all damage caused to
or inflicted upon property belonging to the City by reason of the work. The
Council shall authorize the Clerk-Treasurer to return to the applicant all
deposits after deducting a sum sufficient to pay for all of the costs and
expenses and for all damages done to property of the City.
(Prior Code, § 1109.11)
LAND FILLING
§ 150.40 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Whenever any person, firm or corporation proposes to add land fill in excess
of five cubic yards to any property within the City limits, he or she shall
apply to the City for a land fill permit.
(Prior Code, § 1106.01)
§ 150.41 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring a permit hereunder shall
present an application on the form as shall be provided by the City’s Building
Official requiring the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name and address of the owner of the land;
      (3)   The purpose of the land fill;
      (4)   A description of the source, type and amount of fill material to be
placed upon the premises; and
      (5)   An estimate of the time required to complete the land fill.
   (B)   The following items may be required if the City’s Building Official or
the City Council determine that they are necessary:
      (1)   The address and legal description of the land involved;
      (2)   A site plan showing present topography and also including boundary
lines for all properties, watercourses, wetlands and other significant features
within 200 feet;
      (3)   A site plan showing the proposed finished grade and landscape plan.
Erosion control measures shall be provided on such a plan. Final grade shall
not adversely affect the surrounding land or the development of the site on
which fill is being conducted. Top soil shall be of a quality capable of
establishing normal vegetative growth;
      (4)   A security statement demonstrating the proposed activity will in no
way jeopardize the public health, safety and welfare or is appropriately fenced
to provide adequate protection; and
      (5)   A statement that the applicant will comply with all conditions
prescribed by the City or its offices or agents.
   (C)   (1)   The application shall be considered as being officially
submitted when all the information requirements are complied with.
      (2)   A fee for the application shall be paid to the City at the time the
application is submitted, as provided in §
34.01 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1106.02)
§ 150.42 TECHNICAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The City’s Building Official shall process all land fill permit
applications.
   (B)   When the inspection expenses incurred during the landfill operation
exceed the fee, the excess expenses shall be billed to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 1106.03)
§ 150.43 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Building Official shall determine as to whether, and when, and
under what conditions a land fill permit for less than 30 cubic yards shall be
issued.
   (B)   Upon receiving information and reports from the City’s Building
Official, the Council shall make its determination as to whether, and when, and
under what conditions the permit for a land fill greater than 30 cubic yards is
to be issued to the applicant by the City’s Building Official.
(Prior Code, § 1106.04)
§ 150.44 CONDITIONS OF OPERATION.
   Under no circumstances shall any land fill operation be conducted or
permitted if the contents of the land fill or any part thereof shall consist of
garbage, animal or vegetable refuse; poisons, contaminants, chemicals, decayed
material, filth, sewage or similar septic biologically dangerous material; or
any other material deemed to be unsuitable by City authorities.
(Prior Code, § 1106.05)
§ 150.45 BONDING.
   The Building Official or the Council may require either the applicant or the
owner or user of the property on which the land fill is occurring to post a
bond in a form and sum as the Building Official shall determine, with
sufficient surety provided to the City, conditional to pay to the City the
extraordinary cost and expense of repairing from time to time, any highways,
streets or other public ways where the repair work is made necessary by the
special burden resulting from hauling and travel in transporting fill material,
the amount of the cost and expense to be determined by the City’s Building
Official; and conditioned further to comply with all requirements of this
subchapter, and the particular permit, and to pay any expense the City may
incur by reason of doing anything required to be done by any applicant to whom
a permit is issued.
(Prior Code, § 1106.06)
§ 150.46 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   The Council may, for failure of any person to comply with any requirement
made of him or her in writing under the provisions of the permit, as promptly
as same can reasonably be done, proceed to cause the requirement to be complied
with, and the cost of the work shall be taxed against the property whereon the
land fill is located, or the City may at its option proceed to collect the
costs by an action against the person to whom the permit has been issued, and
his or her superiors if a bond exists.
(Prior Code, § 1106.07)
§ 150.47 COMPLETION OF OPERATION.
   (A)   All land fill operations shall be completed within 90 days of the
issuance of the permit. Upon completion, the permit holder shall notify the
Building Official in writing to the City and upon a satisfactory showing of
need, the City Council may grant an extension of time. If the extension is
granted, it shall be for a definite period and the City’s Building Official
shall issue an extension permit. Extensions shall not be granted in cases where
the permit holder fails to show that good faith efforts were made to complete
the land fill operation within 90 days and that failure to complete the
operation was due to circumstances beyond the permit holder’s control, such as
shortage of fill material, Teamster’s strike, unusually inclement weather,
illness or other valid and reasonable excuse for non-completion. In the event a
request for an extension is denied, the permit holder shall be allowed a
reasonable time to comply with the other provisions of this section relating to
grading, leveling and seeding or sodding. What constitutes “reasonable time”
shall be determined by the City’s Building Official after inspecting the
premises.
   (B)   (1)   At the completion of a land fill operation, the premises shall
be graded, leveled and seeded or sodded with grass. The grade shall be an
elevation with reference to any abutting street or public way as the Building
Official shall prescribe in the permit. The site shall also conform to the
prerequisites as the Building Official may determine with reference to storm
water drainage runoff and storm water passage or flowage so that the land fill
cannot become a source of, or an aggravation to, storm water drainage
conditions in the area. The Building Official shall inspect the project
following completion to determine if the applicant has complied with the
conditions required of him or her.
      (2)   Failure of the compliance shall result in the withholding of any
building permits for the site and notice of the withholding shall be filed in
the office of the County Recorder for the purpose of putting subsequent
purchasers on notice.
(Prior Code, § 1106.08)
OPEN PITS AND EXCAVATIONS
§ 150.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   IMPOUNDING WATERS. Any water kept on public or private property within the
City in such a manner that more than 500 gallons of water are above and/or
below the natural surface of the surrounding ground. The word “water” or
“waters”, as used in the preceding sentence, shall be deemed to include any and
all liquid substances.
   OPEN PITS or EXCAVATIONS. Any artificial excavation of the earth within the
City, dug, excavated or made by the removal from the natural surface of the
earth of sod, soil, sand, gravel, stone or other matter, creating a depression
or depressions, exceeding in any one place 200 square feet of surface area, the
bottom or lowest point of which shall be two feet or more below, or lower than,
the level of the adjoining unexcavated land; in which depression, pit or
excavation water may fall, gather, collect and remain stagnant, putrid or
polluted; or which depression may be or become dangerous from the standpoint of
public safety or health, or to children playing therein or thereby; or which
depression may be come a public nuisance or deteriorate the value of adjacent
property. Depressions, pits or excavations made for the purpose of the
foundation, cellar or basement of some immediately pending superstructure to be
erected, built or placed therein contemporaneously with, or immediately
following the excavating, and covering or to cover the excavated pit or
depression when completed, are excepted, if a building permit has been issued
and has not been voided or canceled. Water hook-up to municipal water system is
excluded from this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1107.01)
§ 150.61 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any person who shall hereafter dig, excavate, enlarge, make, maintain or
allow to be maintained, upon property owned or used by him or her, any open pit
or excavation, or any impounded waters, without first making an application for
and obtaining from the City Council a permit therefor, shall be guilty of a
violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1107.02) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.62 PERMIT APPLICATION, ISSUANCE, FEE.
   (A)   Application for the permit shall be made in such form, and the
applicant shall furnish information as shall be required by the Council and,
among other things, shall state: the applicant’s name and address; location of
the proposed pit or excavation; its purpose; and intended duration of the same.
   (B)   The application shall be filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer at least
five days before being considered by the Council, and a fee shall accompany
each application.
(Prior Code, § 1107.03)
§ 150.63 CONDITIONS OF PERMIT.
   The Council, as a prerequisite to the granting of a permit, or after a
permit has been granted, may require the applicant to whom the permit issues,
or the owner or user of the property on which the open pit or excavation or
impounded waters are located to:
   (A)   Properly fence any pit or excavation;
   (B)   Slope the banks and otherwise properly guard and keep any pit or
excavation in such condition as not to be dangerous from caving in or sliding
banks;
   (C)   Properly drain, fill or level any pit or excavation after it has been
created, so as to make the same safe and healthful as the Council shall
determine; and
   (D)   Keep any pit, excavation or impounded waters within the limits for
which the particular permit is granted.
(Prior Code, § 1107.04)
§ 150.64 BOND MAY BE REQUIRED.
   The Council may require either the applicant or the owner or user of the
property on which the open pit or excavation are located, to post a bond, in a
form and sum as the Council shall determine, with sufficient surety running to
the City to pay any expense the City may incur by reason of doing anything
required to be done by the City by reason of the failure to act, negligence or
refusal to act or improper act by any applicant to whom a permit has been or
will be issued.
(Prior Code, § 1107.05)
§ 150.65 COUNCIL MAY HAVE WORK DONE.
   The Council may, for failure of any person to comply with any requirement
made of him or her in writing under the provisions of §
150.63 of this chapter, as promptly as the same can reasonably be done, proceed
to cause the requirement to be complied with, and the cost of the work shall be
taxed against the property whereon the pit or excavation is situated, or the
City may, at its option, proceed to collect the costs by an action against the
person to whom the permit has been issued, and his or her superiors if a bond
exists.
(Prior Code, § 1107.06)
§ 150.66 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person who shall refuse, neglect or fail to comply with any
requirement made of him or her under the provisions of this subchapter as
promptly as the same can reasonably be done, shall be guilty of a violation of
this subchapter.
   (B)   The penalty imposed by §
150.99 of this chapter shall be in addition to the remedies contained in §§
150.64 and
150.65 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1107.07) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of the code adopted in §
150.01 of this chapter is a misdemeanor, per M.S. § 326B.082, subd. 16, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   (1)   Violations declared. It shall be unlawful for any person to
erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or
demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or structure in the City
or cause the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of §§
150.01 through
150.04 of this chapter.
      (2)   Penalty. In addition to any fees, expenses or other costs specified
herein, any person violating the provisions of §§
150.01 through
150.04 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. In addition thereto,
the City shall also have the authority to seek injunctive relief to prohibit
unauthorized or illegal moving as described hereto.
      (3)   Costs to the City of violations. In the event of violation of any
conditions of the permit, and in the further event the City incurs expenses, by
reason of the violation, the Council may, by resolution, apply these costs
against the benefitted property as a special assessment under state statutes
for certification to the County Auditor and for collection the following year
along with the current real estate taxes.
(Prior Code, § 1109.12)
   (D)   Any violation of §§
150.40 through
150.47 of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 1106.09)
   (E)   Any violation of §§
150.60 through
150.66 of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 1107.08)
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-14-2014)
CHAPTER 151: MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS CODE
Section
   
151.01   Designation
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Minimum housing standards
   
151.04   Enforcement
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 DESIGNATION.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Minimum Housing Standards
Code” for the City.
(Prior Code, § 1108.01)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING. Any enclosed space which is wholly or partially used or intended
to be used for living or sleeping of human occupants; provided that, temporary
housing shall not be regarded as a DWELLING.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used for living,
sleeping, cooking and eating.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, pantries, foyers of communicating corridors,
closets and storage space.
   HOUSING INSPECTOR. A person designated by the City to enforce this chapter,
or the designated person’s representative.
   OCCUPANT. Any person living, sleeping, cooking or eating in, or having
actual possession of, a dwelling unit or rooming unit over the age of one year.
   OWNER. Any person, who alone or jointly or severally with others shall have
title to any dwelling or dwelling unit or rooming unit, with or without
accompanying actual possession thereof which entitles him or her to charge,
care, control or right of management, of any dwelling or dwelling unit or
rooming unit, either as owner or agent of the owner, or as executor or
executrix, administrator or administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate
of the owner.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, association or partnership.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking
purposes.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 consecutive days.
(Prior Code, § 1108.02)
§ 151.03 MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Dwelling.
      (1)   No other person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another
for occupancy any dwelling for the purpose of living therein, which does not
comply with the following requirements.
         (a)   Every foundation, floor, wall, ceiling, roof, window, exterior
door and basement hatchway shall be reasonably weather-tight, water-tight,
rodent-proof and in good repair.
         (b)   Every inside and outside stairs, every porch and every
appurtenance thereto shall be so constructed and maintained as to be safe for
normal use.
         (c)   Every plumbing fixture, water pipe and waste pipe shall be
properly installed and maintained in a good working condition, free from
defects, leaks and obstructions.
         (d)   Every piece of the mechanical heating system shall be kept in
sound condition and good repair.
         (e)   Every part of the electrical system shall be kept in sound
condition and good repair.
         (f)   Every water closet compartment floor surface and bathroom
surface shall be maintained so as to be reasonably impervious to water and so
as to permit the floor to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
         (g)   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility which is
required under this chapter shall be so constructed and installed so that it
will function safely and effectively and shall be maintained in satisfactory
working condition.
         (h)   All rubbish, garbage or refuse shall be removed from the
dwelling or the dwelling premises in order to keep the dwelling or dwelling
premises in a clean and sanitary condition as required by other ordinances.
      (2)   Every occupant of a dwelling he or she does not own shall not
damage any supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility which the owner is
required to provide. In addition, every occupant of a dwelling shall keep it in
a clean and sanitary condition as required by other ordinances.
   (B)   Dwelling unit. No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to
another for occupancy any dwelling unit for the purpose of living therein,
which does not comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Heating. Every dwelling unit shall have heating facilities which
are properly installed, are maintained in a safe and good working condition and
are capable of safely and adequately heating all habitable rooms, bathrooms and
water closet compartments to a temperature of at least 70°F at a distance three
feet above floor level when the outside temperature is zero.
      (2)   Electrical. Every habitable room shall contain at least two
separate floor or wall-type electric convenience outlets or one such
convenience outlet and one electric light fixture. Every water closet
compartment, bathroom, laundry room, furnace room and public hall shall contain
at least one electrical light fixture.
      (3)   Light/ventilation. Every habitable room, water closet compartment
and bathroom shall have at least one window facing directly to the outdoors of
a minimum size equal to 10% of the floor area of the room. Every habitable room
shall have at least one window which can be opened equal to at least 45% of the
minimum window area size, except where there is some supplied mechanical device
which affords adequate ventilation.
      (4)   Space.
         (a)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of
floor space for the first occupant thereof and at least 100 additional square
feet of floor space for every additional occupant thereof.
         (b)   At least one-third of the floor area of every habitable room
shall have a ceiling height of at least seven feet; in the floor area of that
part of any room where the ceiling is less than five feet shall not be
considered as part of the floor area in computing the total floor area of the
room for the purpose of determining the maximum permissible occupancy thereof.
      (5)   Basic facilities.
         (a)   Every dwelling unit shall contain a kitchen sink in good working
condition connected to a water and sewer system.
         (b)   Every dwelling unit shall contain a room which affords privacy
to a person within the room and which is equipped with a flush water closet and
a lavatory basin in good working condition and properly connected to a water
and sewer system.
         (c)   Every dwelling unit shall contain a room which affords privacy
to a person within the room and a bathtub or shower in good working condition
and properly connected to a water and sewer system.
         (d)   Every kitchen sink, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower
required shall be properly connected with hot and cold water lines.
         (e)   Every dwelling unit’s hot water facilities shall be capable of
providing hot water at each outlet at a temperature of not less than 120°F.
         (f)   Every dwelling unit shall have a safe, unobstructed means of
egress leading to safe and open space at ground level.
   (C)   Rooming unit. No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to
another for occupancy any rooming unit for the purpose of living therein, which
does not comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Heating. Every rooming unit shall have heating facilities which are
properly installed, maintained in a safe and good working condition and are
capable of safely and adequately heating all habitable rooms, bathrooms and
water closet compartments to a temperature of at least 70°F a distance three
feet above floor level when the outside temperature is zero.
      (2)   Electrical. Every habitable room shall contain at least two
separate floor or wall-type electric convenience outlets and one electric light
fixture. Every water closet compartment, bathroom, laundry room, furnace room
and public hall shall contain at least one electrical light fixture.
      (3)   Light/ventilation. Every habitable room shall have at least one
window facing directly to the outdoors of a minimum size equal to 10% of the
floor area of the room. Every habitable room shall have at least one window
which can be opened equal to at least 45% of the minimum window area size,
except where there is some supplied mechanical device which affords adequate
ventilation.
      (4)   Space.
         (a)   Every rooming unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of
floor space for the first occupant thereof and at least 100 additional square
feet of floor space for every additional occupant thereof.
         (b)   At least one-third of the floor area of every habitable room
shall have a ceiling height of at least seven feet; in the floor area of that
part of any room where the ceiling is less than five feet shall not be
considered as part of the floor area in computing the total floor area of the
room for the purpose of determining the maximum permissible occupancy thereof.
      (5)   Basic facilities.
         (a)   Every rooming unit may contain a room which affords privacy to a
person within the room and which is equipped with a flush water closet and a
lavatory basin in good working condition and properly connected to a water and
sewer system.
         (b)   Every rooming unit may contain a room which affords privacy to a
person within the room and a bathtub or shower in good working condition and
properly connected to a water and sewer system.
         (c)   Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower provided shall be
properly connected with hot and cold water lines.
         (d)   Every rooming unit shall have a safe, unobstructed means of
egress leading to safe and open space at ground level.
      (6)   Special conditions.
         (a)   It is not necessary that each rooming unit have individual water
flush closets, lavatory basins and or bathtub or showers. It shall only be
required that one flush water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower
shall be provided within the dwelling for each eight persons or fraction
thereof. Members of the owner’s family, whenever they share the use of the
facilities, shall be counted among the eight persons. All such facilities shall
be located within the dwelling as to be reasonably accessible from a common
hall or passage way to all persons sharing the facilities.
         (b)   Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one person shall
contain at least 70 square feet of floor space, and every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by more than one person shall contain at least 50 square feet
of floor space, for each occupant thereof.
         (c)   Every rooming unit shall have safe, unobstructed means of egress
leading to safe and open space at ground level.
   (D)   Common space in dwellings(not single-family).
      (1)   The operator or owner of every rooming house or apartment building
shall be responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and
ceilings and for maintenance of a sanitary condition in every other part of the
rooming house or apartment building and shall be further responsible for the
sanitary maintenance of the entire premises where the entire structure or
building is leased or occupied by the operator.
      (2)   Every public hall, corridor, foyer or stair and all other rooms
used by more than one family shall contain a minimum of one ceiling-type
electrical fixture.
      (3)   This chapter shall apply to all dwelling, by whatever name they are
known, except nursing or rest homes operating under a state license.
(Prior Code, § 1108.03) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)    Unless the violation of this chapter is subject to special procedures
described in state law or elsewhere in this code, in which case those
procedures shall be followed, the City may enforce this chapter by any of the
nuisance procedures described in §
92.21, at the discretion of City staff.
   (B)   Extension of time. In case of demonstrated hardship due to reasons
beyond the control of the property owner (including, but not limited to,
natural disasters; reasonably unforeseen material, equipment, or labor
shortages; vandalism; or theft), the time allowed for bringing a violation of
this chapter into compliance may be extended at the sole discretion of the City
upon written appeal.
(Prior Code, § 1108.04) (Ord. 2021-07, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
    Any person who violates this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. It
shall also be a misdemeanor for anyone to aid, abet, advise, encourage, or
assist another to violate any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1108.05) (Ord. 2021-07, passed 6-28-2021)
CHAPTER 152: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
152.02   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
152.03   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
152.04   Repair of sidewalks
   
152.05   General offenses against public property
   
152.06   Closing West Mill Street to through traffic
   
152.07   Street numbers to be visible from sidewalk or street
Right-of-Way Management and Small Cell Wireless Facilities
   
152.20   Findings, purpose, and intent
   
152.21   Election to manage the public rights-of-way
   
152.22   Definitions
   
152.23   Administration
   
152.24   Utility Coordination Committee
   
152.25   Registration and right-of-way occupancy
   
152.26   Registration information
   
152.27   Reporting obligations
   
152.28   Permit requirement
   
152.29   Permit applications
   
152.30   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
152.31   Action on small wireless facility permit applications
   
152.32   Permit fees
   
152.33   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
152.34   Joint applications
   
152.35   Supplementary applications
   
152.36   Other obligations
   
152.37   Denial or revocation of permit
   
152.38   Installation requirements
   
152.39   Inspection
   
152.40   Work done without a permit
   
152.41   Supplementary notification
   
152.42   Revocation of permits
   
152.43   Mapping data
   
152.44   Location and relocation of facilities
   
152.45   Pre-excavation facilities location
   
152.46   Damage to other facilities
   
152.47   Right-of-way vacation (reservation of right)
   
152.48   Indemnification and liability
   
152.49   Abandoned and unusable facilities
   
152.50   Appeal
   
152.51   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the City by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
(Prior Code, § 903.01) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.02 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
within the City by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 903.02) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
(Prior Code, § 903.03) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The owner of any property within the City abutting a public sidewalk
shall keep the sidewalk in repair and safe for pedestrians. Repairs shall be
made in accordance with standard specifications approved by the Council and on
file in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner to make inspections as
are necessary to determine that public sidewalks within the City are kept in
repair and safe for pedestrians. If he or she finds that any sidewalks abutting
on private property is unsafe and in need of repairs, he or she shall cause a
notice to be served, by registered mail or by personal service, upon the record
owner of the property and the occupant, if the owner does not reside within the
City or cannot be found therein, ordering the owner to have the sidewalk
repaired and made safe within 30 days and stating that, if the owner fails to
do so, the Street Commissioner will do so on behalf of the City, that the
expense thereof must be paid by the owner and that, if unpaid, it will be made
a special assessment against the property concerned.
   (C)   If the sidewalk is not repaired within 30 days after receipt of the
notice, the Street Commissioner shall report the facts to the Council and the
Council shall, by resolution, order the Street Commissioner to repair the
sidewalk and make it safe for pedestrians or order the work done by contract in
accordance with the law. The Street Commissioner shall keep a record of the
total cost of the repair attributable to each lot or parcel of property and
report the information to the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   On or before September 1 of each year, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall
list the total unpaid charges for each type of current services against each
separate lot or parcel to which they are attributable under this subchapter.
The Council may then spread the charges against property benefitted as a
special assessment under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time, and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County Auditor and
collection the following year along with current taxes.
(Prior Code, § 903.04)
§ 152.05 GENERAL OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Blasting precautions. No person shall blast or cause to be blasted
within 300 feet of any building of the City, rocks or other material without
having the same covered by good sound timbers, or sheet metal of sufficient
weight, length and thickness and so placed as effectively to prevent fragments
of rock or other material blasted from ascending into the air, or shall fail to
notify persons approaching the scene of any blasting that blasting is being
done.
   (B)   Placing objects in public highways. No person shall place, throw or
cause to be placed or thrown on any street, alley, sidewalk or other public
property any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substances or things that
might wound any person or animal, or cut or puncture any pneumatic tire when
passing over the same.
   (C)   Obstructing sidewalks. No person shall leave or allow to be left any
implements, tools, boxes, merchandise, goods, trash, cans or crates on any
sidewalk or other public way longer than is necessary for loading or unloading
the same.
   (D)   Maintaining sidewalk level. No owner of any property having a sidewalk
adjacent thereto shall permit any plank, brick, stone or segment of the
sidewalk to be raised above the established level of the sidewalk more than
one-half inch, in any manner which might catch the foot of a pedestrian, or
shall permit any holes or depressions to occur in the sidewalk in which a
pedestrian might step or catch his or her foot in a manner liable to cause
injury.
   (E)   Posting bills. No person shall put up any handbills, advertisement,
posters, showbills or other sign on any building, pole or property not his or
her own, without permission from the owner thereof.
   (F)   Defacing public property. No person shall cut, carve, mark, etch,
engrave any character, figure, letter or name upon any building owned, occupied
or used by the City, or shall in any manner mar, deface or injure any trees,
shrub, plant, vines or any other public property in, on or around the grounds
upon which the building is situated.
   (G)   Willful destruction of public park property. No person shall willfully
and without authority cut, pluck or otherwise injure any flowers, shrubs or
trees growing in or around any public park, or other public grounds of the
City, or shall willfully injure or destroy any stand, bench or other property
situated on the park or ground.
   (H)   Interference with public sewers and culverts. No person shall
willfully injure or destroy, or attempt to injure or destroy, any public sewer
or culvert, or shall molest any sewer or culvert, or any part of the sewer or
culvert, by removing the cover of any flush tank, manhole or other part of the
public sewer system or culvert, without authority to do so.
   (I)   Withholding City property.
      (1)   No person shall take possession of any property, real or personal,
belonging to the City, or to the possession of which the City shall be
entitled, or shall commit any trespass thereon, or shall unlawfully withhold
the property from the City, and the unlawful withholding of the property, after
demand therefor has been made under the direction of the City Council, shall be
deemed a new and separate offense for every day the possession is withheld
after the demand.
      (2)   All City employees, contractors and elected officials must return
all City property to Clerk-Treasurer before final check is issued.
   (J)   Deposits on sidewalks. Whenever any lot or piece of land abutting on
any sidewalk shall become or remain in such a condition that earth, grass or
other substances therefrom accumulate on the sidewalk, and the owner of the lot
or piece of land shall refuse or neglect to place the same in a condition as to
prevent the washing or accumulating on the sidewalk, the owner shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, and each day that the owner shall refuse or neglect to abate
the condition after notice from the Street Commissioner shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (K)   Interference with sidewalks. No person shall loosen or remove any
plank, brick, block or support from any sidewalk, crosswalk, curbing or gutter;
provided, this section shall not apply to persons making repairs on any
sidewalk, gutter, curb or crosswalk, or any person temporarily removing the
same on account of building operations.
   (L)   Snow, grass and yard waste. No person shall place, leave or allow to
accumulate any snow, grass or yard waste on any public sidewalk, street or
other public property.
(Prior Code, § 903.05) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 CLOSING WEST MILL STREET TO THROUGH TRAFFIC.
   (A)   The City Council finds that through traffic on West Mill Street in the
City, at its intersection with the CP Rail track, constitutes a possible
traffic hazard. The traffic hazard is created by reason of poor sightlines and
elevation of West Mill Street. It is in the public interest that through
traffic on West Mill Street be discontinued.
   (B)   Traffic barricades shall be established and maintained on West Mill
Street, at its intersection with the easterly and westerly boundary lines of
the railroad right-of-way maintained by the Soo Line Railroad, d/b/a CP Rail.
The traffic barricades shall prevent all vehicular traffic from crossing the
railroad track at its intersection with West Mill Street; provided, however,
the City shall retain the right to install and maintain utilities, water
drainage and pedestrian walkways across the railroad track on West Mill Street.
(Prior Code, § 903.06) (Ord. 2003-15, passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07 STREET NUMBERS TO BE VISIBLE FROM SIDEWALK OR STREET.
   Every house located in a residential or rural-residential district, and each
other building located in a business or commercial district within the City
shall display the address number on the house or building in a place, and of
sufficient size, to be visible from the public street or sidewalk adjacent to
the front yard of the property.
(Prior Code, § 903.07) Penalty, see §
152.99
RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT AND SMALL CELL WIRELESS FACILITIES
§ 152.20 FINDINGS, PURPOSE, AND INTENT.
   (A)   To provide for the health, safety and welfare of its citizens, and to
ensure the integrity of its streets and the appropriate use of the rights-of-
way, the city strives to keep its rights-of-way in a state of good repair and
free from unnecessary encumbrances. Accordingly, the city hereby enacts this
new chapter of this code relating to right-of-way permits and administration.
This chapter imposes reasonable regulation on the placement and maintenance of
facilities and equipment currently within its rights-of-way or to be placed
therein at some future time. It is intended to complement the regulatory roles
of state and Federal agencies. Under this chapter, persons excavating and
obstructing the rights-of-way will bear financial responsibility for their
work. Finally, this chapter provides for recovery of out-of-pocket and
projected costs from persons using the public rights-of-way.
   (B)   This chapter shall be interpreted consistently with 1997 Session Laws,
Chapter 123, substantially codified in M.S. §§ 237.16, 237.79, 237.81, 237.162,
237.163, and 238.086 (the "Act") and 2017 Session Laws, Chapter 94 amending the
Act and the other laws governing applicable rights of the city and users of the
right-of-way. This chapter shall also be interpreted consistent with Minn.
Rules 7819.0050 -7819.9950 and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560 where possible. To the
extent any provision of this chapter cannot be interpreted consistently with
the Minnesota Rules, that interpretation most consistent with the Act and other
applicable statutory and case law is intended. This chapter shall not be
interpreted to limit the regulatory and police powers of the city to adopt and
enforce general ordinances necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare
of the public.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.21 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative and common law, the city hereby elects, pursuant M.S.
237.163, subd. 2(b), to manage rights-of-way within its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.22 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply in this chapter of this code. References
hereafter to "sections" are, unless otherwise specified, references to sections
in this chapter. Defined terms remain defined terms, whether or not
capitalized.
   ABANDONED FACILITY. A facility no longer in service or physically
disconnected from a portion of the operating facility, or from any other
facility, that is in use or still carries service. A facility is not abandoned
unless declared so by the right-of-way user.
   APPLICANT. Any person requesting permission to excavate or obstruct a right-
of-way.
   CITY. The City of Dundas, Minnesota, and the city's elected officials,
officers, employees and agents.
   COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace a small wireless facility on, under, within, or adjacent to an existing
wireless support structure or utility pole that is owned privately, or by the
city or other governmental unit.
   COMMISSION. The State Public Utilities Commission.
   CONGESTED RIGHT-OF-WAY. A crowded condition in the subsurface of the public
right-of-way that occurs when the maximum lateral spacing between existing
underground facilities does not allow for construction of new underground
facilities without using hand digging to expose the existing lateral facilities
in conformance with M.S. § 216D.04, subd. 3, over a continuous length in excess
of 500 feet.
   CONSTRUCTION PERFORMANCE BOND. Any of the following forms of security
provided at permittee's option:
      (1)   Individual project bond;
      (2)   Cash deposit;
      (3)   Security of a form listed or approved under M.S. § 15.73, subd. 3;
      (4)   Letter of credit, in a form acceptable to the city;
      (5)   Self-insurance, in a form acceptable to the city;
      (6)   A blanket bond for projects within the city, or other form of
construction bond, for a time specified, and in a form acceptable to the city.
   DEGRADATION. A decrease in the useful life of the right-of-way caused by
excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct such right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
or disturbance did not occur.
   DEGRADATION COST. Subject to Minn. Rules 7819.1100 means the cost to achieve
a level of restoration, as determined by the city at the time the permit is
issued, not to exceed the maximum restoration shown in plates 1 to 13, set
forth in Minn. Rules parts 7819.9900 to 7819.9950.
   DEGRADATION FEE. The estimated fee established at the time of permitting by
the city to recover costs associated with the decrease in the useful life of
the right-of-way caused by the excavation, and which equals the degradation
cost.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Public Works of the city.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Public Works of the city, or her
or his designee.
   DELAY PENALTY. The penalty imposed as a result of unreasonable delays in
right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration as established
by permit.
   EMERGENCY. A condition that:
      (1)   Poses a danger to life or health, or of a significant loss of
property; or
      (2)   Requires immediate repair or replacement of facilities in order to
restore service to a customer.
   EQUIPMENT. Any tangible asset used to install, repair, or maintain
facilities in any right-of-way.
Excavate. To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or penetrate
any part of a right-of-way.
Excavation permit. The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be obtained
before a person may excavate in a right-of-way. An excavation permit allows the
holder to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such permit.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by an applicant to cover the
costs as provided in § 152.32.
   FACILITY OR FACILITIES. Any tangible asset in the right-of-way required to
provide utility service.
   FIVE-YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the city for construction
within the next five years.
   HIGH DENSITY CORRIDOR. A designated portion of the public right-of-way
within which telecommunications right-of-way users having multiple and
competing facilities may be required to build and install facilities in a
common conduit system or other common structure.
   HOLE. An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length
less than the width of the pavement.
   LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE. A local person or persons, or designee of such person
or persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and to make decisions
for that registrant regarding all matters within the scope of this chapter.
   MANAGEMENT COSTS. The actual costs the city incurs in managing its rights-
of-way, including such costs, if incurred, as those associated with registering
applicants; issuing, processing, and verifying right-of-way or small wireless
facility permit applications; inspecting job sites and restoration projects;
maintaining, supporting, protecting, or moving user facilities during right-of-
way work; determining the adequacy of right-of-way restoration; restoring work
inadequately performed after providing notice and the opportunity to correct
the work; and revoking right-of-way or small wireless facility permits.
Management costs do not include payment by a telecommunications right-of-way
user for the use of the right-of-way, unreasonable fees of a third-party
contractor used by the city including fees tied to or based on customer counts,
access lines, or revenues generated by the right-of-way or for the city, the
fees and  cost of litigation relating to the interpretation of Minnesota
Session Laws 1997, Chapter 123; M.S. §§ 237.162 or 237.163; or any ordinance
enacted under those sections, or the city fees and costs related to appeals
taken pursuant to §
152.50 of this chapter.
   OBSTRUCT. To place any tangible object in a right-of-way so as to hinder
free and open passage over that or any part of the right-of-way.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a person may obstruct a right-of-way, allowing the holder to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of that right-of-way,
for the duration specified therein.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by a permittee to cover the
costs as provided in §
152.32.
   PATCH OR PATCHING. A method of pavement replacement that is temporary in
nature. A patch consists of:
      (1)   The compaction of the subbase and aggregate base; and
      (2)   The replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement for a minimum of
two feet beyond the edges of the excavation in all directions. A patch is
considered full restoration only when the pavement is included in the city's
five-year project plan.
   PAVEMENT. Any type of improved surface that is within the public right-of-
way and that is paved or otherwise constructed with bituminous, concrete,
aggregate, or gravel.
   PERMIT. Has the meaning given RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT in M.S. § 237.162.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a permit to excavate or obstruct a right-of-
way has been granted by the city under this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of this state,
however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or foreign,
whether for profit or nonprofit, and whether natural, corporate, or political.
   PROBATION. The status of a person that has not complied with the conditions
of this chapter.
   PROBATIONARY PERIOD. One year from the date that a person has been notified
in writing that they have been put on probation.
   REGISTRANT. Any person who:
      (1)   Has or seeks to have its equipment or facilities located in any
right-of-way; or
      (2)   In any way occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or use, the right-
of-way or place its facilities or equipment in the right-of-way.
   RESTORE OR RESTORATION. The process by which an excavated right-of-way and
surrounding area, including pavement and foundation, is returned to the same
condition and life expectancy that existed before excavation.
   RESTORATION COST. The amount of money paid to the city by a permittee to
achieve the level of restoration according to plates 1 to 13 of Minnesota
Public Utilities Commission rules.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY OR RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public
roadway, highway, street, cartway, bicycle lane or public sidewalk in which the
city has an interest, including other dedicated rights-of-way for travel
purposes and utility easements of the city. A right-of-way does not include the
airwaves above a right-of-way with regard to cellular or other nonwire
telecommunications or broadcast service.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT. Either the excavation permit or the obstruction permit,
or both, depending on the context, required by this chapter.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY USER. 
      (1)   A telecommunications right-of-way user as defined by M.S. §
237.162, subd. 4; or
      (2)   A person owning or controlling a facility in the right-of-way that
is used or intended to be used for providing utility service, and who has a
right under law, franchise, or ordinance to use the public right-of-way.
   SERVICE OR UTILITY SERVICE. Includes:
      (1)   Those services provided by a public utility as defined in M.S. §
216B.02, subds. 4 and 6;
      (2)   Services of a telecommunications right-of-way user, including
transporting of voice or data information;
      (3)   Services of a cable communications systems as defined in M.S. Ch.
238;
      (4)   Natural gas or electric energy or telecommunications services
provided by the city;
      (5)   Services provided by a cooperative electric association organized
under M.S. Ch. 308A; and
      (6)   Water, and sewer, including service laterals, steam, cooling or
heating services.
   SERVICE LATERAL. An underground facility that is used to transmit,
distribute or furnish gas, electricity, communications, or water from a common
source to an end-use customer. A service lateral is also an underground
facility that is used in the removal of wastewater from a customer's premises.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or could fit within such an enclosure; and
      (2)   All other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless
facility provided such equipment is, in aggregate, no more than 28 cubic feet
in volume, not including electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, battery backup power systems, grounding
equipment, power transfer switches, cutoff switches, cable, conduit, vertical
cable runs for the connection of power and other services, and any equipment
concealed from public view within or behind an existing structure or
concealment.
   SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION. An application made to excavate or obstruct more
of the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend, a permit that had already
been issued.
   TEMPORARY SURFACE. The compaction of subbase and aggregate base and
replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement only to the edges of the
excavation. It is temporary in nature except when the replacement is of
pavement included in the city's two-year plan, in which case it is considered
full restoration.
   TRENCH. An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length
equal to or greater than the width of the pavement.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY USER. A person owning or controlling a
facility in the right-of-way, or seeking to own or control a facility in the
right-of-way that is used or is intended to be used for providing wireless
service, or transporting telecommunication or other voice or data information.
For purposes of this chapter, a cable communication system defined and
regulated under M.S. Ch. 238, and telecommunication activities related to
providing natural gas or electric energy services, a public utility as defined
in M.S. § 216B.02, a municipality, a municipal gas or power agency organized
under M.S. Chs. 453 and 453A, or a cooperative electric association organized
under M.S. Ch. 308A, are not telecommunications right-of-way users for purposes
of this chapter except to the extent such entity is offering wireless service.
   TWO YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the city for construction
within the next two years.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole that is used in whole or in part to facilitate
telecommunications or electric service.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables the provision
of wireless services between user equipment and a wireless service network,
including equipment associated with wireless service, a radio transceiver,
antenna, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and a
small wireless facility, but not including wireless support structures,
wireline backhaul facilities, or cables between utility poles or wireless
support structures, or not otherwise immediately adjacent to and directly
associated with a specific antenna.
   WIRELESS SERVICE. Any service using licensed or unlicensed wireless
spectrum, including the use of wi-fi, whether at a fixed location or by means
of a mobile device, that is provided using wireless facilities. Wireless
service does not include services regulated under Title VI of the
Communications Act of 1934, as amended, including cable service.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A new or existing structure in a right-of-way
designed to support or capable of supporting small wireless facilities, as
reasonably determined by the city.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.23 ADMINISTRATION.
   The director is the principal city official responsible for the
administration of the rights-of-way, right-of-way permits, and the ordinances
related thereto. The Director may delegate any or all of the duties hereunder.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.24 UTILITY COORDINATION COMMITTEE.
   The city may create an advisory utility coordination committee.
Participation on the committee is voluntary. It will be composed of any
registrants that wish to assist the city in obtaining information and, by
making recommendations regarding use of the right-of-way, and to improve the
process of performing construction work therein. The city may determine the
size of such committee and shall appoint members from a list of registrants
that have expressed a desire to assist the city.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.25 REGISTRATION AND RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Registration. Each person who occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or
use, the right-of-way or place any equipment or facilities in or on the right-
of-way, including persons with installation and maintenance responsibilities by
lease, sublease or assignment, must register with the city. Registration will
consist of providing application information.
   (B)   Registration prior to work. No person may construct, install, repair,
remove, relocate, or perform any other work on, or use any facilities or any
part thereof, in any right-of-way without first being registered with the city.
   (C)   Exceptions. Nothing herein shall be construed to repeal or amend the
provisions of a city ordinance permitting persons to plant or maintain
boulevard plantings or gardens in the area of the right-of-way between their
property and the street curb. Persons planting or maintaining boulevard
plantings or gardens shall not be deemed to use or occupy the right-of-way, and
shall not be required to obtain any permits or satisfy any other requirements
for planting or maintaining such boulevard plantings or gardens under this
chapter. However, nothing herein relieves a person from complying with the
provisions of the M.S. Ch. 216D, Gopher One Call Law.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.26 REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information required. The information provided to the city at the time
of registration shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Each registrant's name, gopher one-call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers.
      (2)   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration.
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of
Minnesota, or a form of self-insurance acceptable to the city;
         (b)   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the:
            1.   Use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees and permittees; and
            2.   Placement and use of facilities and equipment in the right-of-
way by the registrant, its officers, agents, employees and permittees,
including, but not limited to, protection against liability arising from
completed operations, damage of underground facilities and collapse of
property;
         (c)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all such coverages;
         (d)   Requiring that the city be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term; and
         (e)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the city in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to carry
out the purposes and policies of this chapter.
         (f)   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies.
         (g)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate is
required to be filed under M.S. § 300.06 as recorded and certified to by the
Secretary of State.
         (h)   A copy of the person's order granting a certificate of authority
from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other authorization or
approval from the applicable state or Federal agency to lawfully operate, where
the person is lawfully required to have such authorization or approval from
said commission or other state or Federal agency.
   (B)   Notice of changes. The registrant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times by providing to the city information as to
changes within 15 days following the date on which the registrant has knowledge
of any change.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.27 REPORTING OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Operations. 
      (1)   Each registrant shall, at the time of registration and by December
1 of each year, file a construction and major maintenance plan for underground
facilities with the city. Such plan shall be submitted using a format
designated by the city and shall contain the information determined by the city
to be necessary to facilitate the coordination and reduction in the frequency
of excavations and obstructions of rights-of-way. The plan shall include, but
not be limited to, the following information:
         (a)   The locations and the estimated beginning and ending dates of
all projects to be commenced during the next calendar year (in this section, a
“next-year project”); and
         (b)   To the extent known, the tentative locations and estimated
beginning and ending dates for all projects contemplated for the five years
following the next calendar year (in this section, a “five-year project”).
      (2)   The term “project” in this section shall include both next-year
projects and five-year projects.
      (3)   By January 1 of each year, the city will have available for
inspection in the city's office a composite list of all projects of which the
city has been informed of the annual plans. All registrants are responsible for
keeping themselves informed of the current status of this list.
      (4)   Thereafter, by February 1, each registrant may change any project
in its list of next-year projects, and must notify the city and all other
registrants of all such changes in said list. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a
registrant may at any time join in a next-year project of another registrant
listed by the other registrant.
   (B)   Additional next-year projects. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
will not deny an application for a right-of-way permit for failure to include a
project in a plan submitted to the city if the registrant has used commercially
reasonable efforts to anticipate and plan for the project.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.28 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way, or install or place facilities in
the right-of-way, without first having obtained the appropriate right-of-way
permit from the city to do so.
      (1)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required by a registrant
to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such permit and to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by
placing facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration
specified therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit. An obstruction permit is required by a
registrant to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of right-
of-way by placing equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the
extent and for the duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not
required if a person already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same
project.
      (3)   Small wireless facility permit. A small wireless facility permit is
required by a registrant to erect or install a wireless support structure, to
collocate a small wireless facility, or to otherwise install a small wireless
facility in the specified portion of the right-of-way, to the extent specified
therein, provided that such permit shall remain in effect for the length of
time the facility is in use, unless lawfully revoked.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless:
      (1)   Such person makes a supplementary application for another right-of-
way permit before the expiration of the initial permit; and
      (2)   A new permit or permit extension is granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rule 7819.1000, subp. 3 and
notwithstanding division (B) of this section, the city shall establish and
impose a delay penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation,
obstruction, patching, or restoration. The delay penalty shall be established
from time to time by City Council resolution.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this chapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the city.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.29 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit is made to the city. Right-of-way permit
applications shall contain, and will be considered complete only upon
compliance with, the requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Registration with the city pursuant to this chapter;
   (B)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities.
   (C)   Payment of money due the city for:
      (1)   Permit fees, estimated restoration costs and other management
costs;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city
because of applicant's prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way
or any emergency actions taken by the city;
      (4)   Franchise fees or other charges, if applicable.
   (D)   Payment of disputed amounts due the city by posting security or
depositing in an escrow account an amount equal to at least 110% of the amount
owing.
   (E)   Posting an additional or larger construction performance bond for
additional facilities when applicant requests an excavation permit to install
additional facilities and the city deems the existing construction performance
bond inadequate under applicable standards.
   (F)   For small wireless facilities and wireless support structures,
documentation signed by a registered professional structural engineer
certifying that the existing pole or proposed wireless support structure is or
will be made structurally sufficient to support the proposed small wireless
facility.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.30 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the city shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The city may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use. In addition, a permittee shall comply with all
requirements of local, state and Federal laws, including but not limited to
M.S. §§ 216D.01 through 216D.09 (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System) and
Minn. Rules Ch.7560.
   (C)   Small wireless facility conditions. In addition to division (B), the
erection or installation of a wireless support structure, the collocation of a
small wireless facility, or other installation of a small wireless facility in
the right-of-way, shall be subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   A small wireless facility shall only be collocated on the
particular wireless support structure, under those attachment specifications,
and at the height indicated in the applicable permit application.
      (2)   The small wireless facility shall not interfere with public safety
wireless telecommunications.
      (3)   The small wireless facility shall not extend outward from the
wireless support structure more than two and one-half feet, except that an
antenna one-half inch in diameter or less may extend an additional six inches.
      (4)   Small wireless facilities shall be mounted so there is vertical
clearance of at least eight feet between the facility and any pedestrian
sidewalk.
      (5)   Small wireless facilities shall be located not to obstruct light
fixtures. If small wireless facilities are to be located on a light pole, a
lighting plan shall be submitted to demonstrate the facilities will not block
light on the street or sidewalk.
      (6)   No small wireless facility shall be collocated on any city owned
traffic control device.
      (7)   No new wireless support structure installed within the right-of-way
shall exceed 50 feet in height without the city's written authorization,
provided that the city may impose a lower height limit in the applicable permit
to protect the public health, safety and welfare or to protect the right-of-way
and its current use, and further provided that a registrant may replace an
existing wireless support structure exceeding 50 feet in height with a
structure of the same height subject to such conditions or requirements as may
be imposed in the applicable permit.
      (8)   No wireless facility may extend more than ten feet above its
wireless support structure.
      (9)   No lights, reflectors, flashers or other illuminating devices shall
be affixed to any small wireless facility or wireless support structure except
as required by the Federal Aviation Administration, Federal Communications
Commission, or the city.
      (10)   Brackets supporting small wireless facilities shall be designed to
minimize the appearance and profile of the facilities. Bracket colors shall
match the wireless support structures they are attached to.
      (11)   No stickers, signs, or decals shall be visible on any small
wireless facility or wireless support structure, except:
         (a)   Safety alerts required by law;
         (b)   One sign not over ten square feet in area indicating the name of
the manufacturer or installer;
         (c)   A banner or sign may be attached to a wireless support structure
or small wireless facility at the city's request to conform to other wireless
support structures or small wireless facilities.
      (12)   Where an applicant proposes to install a new wireless support
structure in the right-of-way, the new wireless support structure shall not be
located within 300 feet of any existing wireless support structure.
      (13)   The city shall not allow small cell wireless facility equipment to
be installed on city owned decorative lighting structures.
      (14)   At the request of the city, a new or replacement wireless support
structure may be required to match the original and/or surrounding poles in
width, design, structure, and materials.
      (15)   All electric, telephone, cable, fiber, or other utilities
necessary to operate a small wireless facility shall be installed within the
applicable wireless support structure where practicable. All of a small
wireless facility that is affixed to a wireless support structure which has
exterior exposure shall be as close to the color of the wireless support
structure as is commercially available.
      (16)   No wireless structure shall have constructed on it, or attached to
it, in any way, any platform, catwalk, crow's nest or similar structure, except
structures necessary for the maintenance of small wireless facilities.
      (17)   Wireless support structures and small wireless facilities shall be
grounded for protection against a direct strike by lightning and shall comply,
as to electrical wiring and connections, with all applicable provisions of this
code.
      (18)   Small wireless facilities and/or wireless support structures shall
not be located in a position that disrupts traffic or pedestrian circulation or
interferes with vehicular or pedestrian sight lines.
      (19)   Ground-mounted equipment associated with a small wireless facility
is prohibited unless the applicant can show that ground-mounted equipment is
necessary for operation of the small wireless facility. If ground-mounted
equipment is necessary, it shall be placed below grade unless not technically
feasible. If ground-mounted equipment is placed above grade, the design of
ground equipment shall minimize its visual impact in the right-of-way. Ground-
mounted equipment shall not disrupt pedestrian or traffic circulation or
interfere with vehicular or pedestrian sight lines.
      (20)   A permit for a small wireless facility that has ground-mounted
equipment will only be issued if the city finds:
         (a)   The ground-mounted equipment will not disrupt traffic or
pedestrian circulation;
         (b)   The ground-mounted equipment will not cause a safety hazard;
         (c)   The location of the ground-mounted equipment will minimize
impacts on adjacent properties; and
         (d)   The ground-mounted equipment will not adversly impact the
health, safety, or welfare of the community.
      (21)   Ground-mounted equipment for a small wireless facility shall be
setback a minimum of three feet from any sidewalk.
      (22)   Vegetation or other screening compatible with the surrounding area
shall be provided around any ground-mounted equipment if deemed necessary by
the city.
      (23)   Where an applicant proposes to replace a wireless support
structure, the city may impose reasonable restocking, replacement, or
relocation requirements on the replacement of such structure.
      (24)   A right-of-way user shall promptly and at its own expense, with
due regard for seasonal limitations, temporarily or permanently remove and
relocate its small wireless facilities and wireless support structures in the
right-of-way when it is necessary to prevent interference, and not merely for
convenience of the city, in conjunction with:
         (a)   A present or future city use of the right-of-way for a public
project;
         (b)   The public health or safety; and
         (c)   The safety and convenience or travel over the right-of-way.
   (D)   Small wireless facility agreement. 
      (1)   A small wireless facility shall only be collocated on a small
wireless support structure owned or controlled by the city, or any other city
asset in the right-of-way, after the applicant has executed a standard small
wireless facility collocation agreement with the city. The standard collocation
agreement may require payment of the following:
         (a)   Up to $150 per year for rent to collocate on the city structure.
         (b)   Twenty-five dollars per year for maintenance associated with the
collocation.
         (c)   A monthly fee for electrical service as follows:
            1.   Seventy-three dollars per radio node less than or equal to 100
maximum watts;
            2.   One-hundred and eighty-three per radio node over 100 maximum
watts; or
            3.   The actual costs of electricity, if the actual cost exceed the
foregoing.
      (2)   The standard collocation agreement shall be in addition to, and not
in lieu of, the required small wireless facility permit, provided, however,
that the applicant shall not be additionally required to obtain a license or
franchise in order to collocate. Issuance of a small wireless facility permit
does not supersede, alter or affect any then-existing agreement between the
city and applicant,
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.31 ACTION ON SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Deadline for action. The city shall approve or deny a small wireless
facility permit application within 60 days after filing of a complete
application. The city shall approve or deny a small wireless facility permit
application for construction of a new wireless support structure within 90 days
after filing of a complete application. The small wireless facility permit, and
any associated building permit application, shall be deemed approved if the
city fails to approve or deny the application within 90 days of receipt of a
complete application.
   (B)   Consolidated applications. 
      (1)   An applicant may file a consolidated small wireless facility permit
application addressing the proposed collocation of up to 15 small wireless
facilities, or a greater number if agreed to by a local government unit,
provided that all small wireless facilities in the application:
         (a)   Are located within a two-mile radius;
         (b)   Consist of substantially similar equipment; and
         (c)   Are to be placed on similar types of wireless support
structures.
      (2)   In rendering a decision on a consolidated permit application, the
city may approve some small wireless facilities and deny others but may not use
denial of one or more permits as a basis to deny all small wireless facilities
in the application.
   (C)   Tolling of deadline. The deadline for action on a small wireless
facility permit application may be tolled if:
      (1)   The city receives applications from one or more applicants seeking
approval of permits for more than 30 small wireless facilities within a seven-
day period. In such case, the city may extend the deadline for all such
applications by 30 days by informing the affected applicants in writing of such
extension.
      (2)   The applicant fails to submit all required documents or information
and the city provides written notice of incompleteness to the applicant within
30 days of receipt the application. Upon submission of additional documents or
information, the city shall have ten days to notify the applicant in writing of
any still-missing information.
      (3)   The city and a small wireless facility applicant agree in writing
to toll the review period.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.32 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. The city shall impose an excavation permit fee
in an amount sufficient to recover:
      (1)   Management costs; and
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstruction permit fee. The city shall impose an obstruction permit
fee in an amount sufficient to recover management costs.
   (C)   Small wireless facility permit fee. The city shall impose a small
wireless facility permit fee in an amount sufficient to recover:
      (1)   Management costs; and
      (2)   City engineering, make-ready, and construction costs associated
with collocation of small wireless facilities.
   (D)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of excavation or obstruction permit fees. The
city may allow applicant to pay such fees within 30 days of billing.
   (E)   Non-refundable. Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the city
has revoked for a breach as stated in §
152.42 are not refundable.
   (F)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.33 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under §
152.36.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. Permittee shall patch its own work. The city
may choose either to have the permittee restore the right-of-way or to restore
the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, permittee
shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If, following such
restoration, the pavement settles due to permittee's improper backfilling, the
permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, all costs
associated with correcting the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rule
7819.3000.
      (3)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee. However,
the right-of-way user shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation
fee shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform excavation, backfilling,
patching and restoration according to the standards and with the materials
specified by the city and shall comply with Minn. Rule 7819.1100.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching or restoration performed by permittee or its agents. The permittee
upon notification from the city, shall correct all restoration work to the
extent necessary, using the method required by the city. Said work shall be
completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the city,
not including days during which work cannot be done because of circumstances
constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as unseasonable or
unreasonable under §
152.36.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the city, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the city, the
city at its option may do such work. In that event the permittee shall pay to
the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way. If
permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its rights under the
construction performance bond.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.34 JOINT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Joint application. Registrants may jointly apply for permits to
excavate or obstruct the right-of-way at the same place and time.
   (B)   Shared fees. Registrants who apply for permits for the same
obstruction or excavation, which the city does not perform, may share in the
payment of the obstruction or excavation permit fee. In order to obtain a joint
permit, registrants must agree among themselves as to the portion each will pay
and indicate the same on their applications.
   (C)   With city projects. Registrants who join in a scheduled obstruction or
excavation performed by the city, whether or not it is a joint application by
two or more registrants or a single application, are not required to pay the
excavation or obstruction and degradation portions of the permit fee, but a
permit would still be required.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.35 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater
area:
      (1)   Make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees
required thereby; and
      (2)   Be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.36 OTHER OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with other laws. Obtaining a right-of-way permit does not
relieve permittee of its duty to obtain all other necessary permits, licenses,
and authority and to pay all fees required by the city or other applicable
rule, law or regulation. A permittee shall comply with all requirements of
local, state and federal laws, including but not limited to M.S. § 216D.01
through 216D.09 (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System) and Minn. Rules Ch.
7560. A permittee shall perform all work in conformance with all applicable
codes and established rules and regulations, and is responsible for all work
done in the right-of-way pursuant to its permit, regardless of who does the
work.
   (B)   Prohibited work. Except in an emergency, and with the approval of the
city, no right-of-way obstruction or excavation may be done when seasonally
prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work.
   (C)   Interference with right-of-way. A permittee shall not so obstruct a
right-of-way that the natural free and clear passage of water through the
gutters or other waterways shall be interfered with. Private vehicles of those
doing work in the right-of-way may not be parked within or next to a permit
area, unless parked in conformance with city parking regulations. The loading
or unloading of trucks must be done solely within the defined permit area
unless specifically authorized by the permit.
   (D)   Trenchless excavation. As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including but not limited
to Horizontal Directional Drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
M.S. Ch. 216D and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560 and shall require potholing or open
cutting over existing underground utilities before excavating, as determined by
the Director.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.37 DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Reasons for denial. The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the
requirements and conditions of this chapter or if the city determines that the
denial is necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare or when
necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use.
   (B)   Procedural requirements. The denial or revocation of a permit must be
made in writing and must document the basis for the denial. The city must
notify the applicant or right-of-way user in writing within three business days
of the decision to deny or revoke a permit. If an application is denied, the
right-of-way user may address the reasons for denial identified by the city and
resubmit its application. If the application is resubmitted within 30 days of
receipt of the notice of denial, no additional application fee shall be
imposed. The city must approve or deny the resubmitted application within 30
days after submission.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.38 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules
7819.1100 and 7819.5000 and other applicable local requirements, in so far as
they are not inconsistent with the M.S. §§ 237.162 and 237.163. Installation of
service laterals shall be performed in accordance with Minn. Rules Ch. 7560 and
these ordinances. Service lateral installation is further subject to those
requirements and conditions set forth by the city in the applicable permits
and/or agreements referenced in §
152.43 (B) of this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.39 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
Minn. Rule 7819.1300.
   (B)   Site inspection. Permittee shall make the work-site available to the
city and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable
times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of director.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the Director may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety
or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The Director may issue an order to the permittee for any work that
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the director that
the violation has been corrected. If such proof has not been presented within
the required time, the director may revoke the permit pursuant to §
152.42.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.40 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations. 
      (1)   Each registrant shall immediately notify the director of any event
regarding its facilities that it considers to be an emergency. The registrant
may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary to respond to the emergency.
Excavators' notification to Gopher State One Call regarding an emergency
situation does not fulfill this requirement. Within two business days after the
occurrence of the emergency, the registrant shall apply for the necessary
permits, pay the fees associated therewith, and fulfill the rest of the
requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with this chapter for
the actions it took in response to the emergency.
      (2)   If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding a registrant's
facilities, the city will attempt to contact the local representative of each
registrant affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event,
the city may take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the
emergency, the cost of which shall be borne by the registrant whose facilities
occasioned the emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit and, as a penalty, pay double
the normal fee for said permit, pay double all the other fees required by the
city code, deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to
the right-of-way, and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.41 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the city of
the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.42 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit without a fee refund, if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner, unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittee's control; or
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
152.39.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit, the city shall make
a written demand upon the permittee to remedy such violation. The demand shall
state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the permit. A
substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its discretion, to
place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate and remedy the
breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city, that will cure the breach. Permittee's failure to so
contact the city, or permittee's failure to timely submit an acceptable plan,
or permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be
cause for immediate revocation of the permit. Further, permittee's failure to
so contact the city, or permittee's failure to submit an acceptable plan, or
permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall
automatically place the permittee on probation for one full year.
   (D)   Cause for probation. From time to time, the city may establish a list
of conditions of the permit, which if breached will automatically place the
permittee on probation for one full year, such as, but not limited to, working
out of the allotted time period or working on right-of-way grossly outside of
the permit authorization.
   (E)   Automatic revocation. If a permittee, while on probation, commits a
breach as outlined above, permittee's permit will automatically be revoked and
permittee will not be allowed further permits for one full year, except for
emergency repairs. The revocation of a permit must be made in writing and
document the basis for the revocation. The city must notify the right-of-way
user within three business days of the decision to revoke a permit.
   (F)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city's reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys' fees
incurred in connection with such revocation.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.43 MAPPING DATA.
   (A)   Information required. Each registrant and permittee shall provide
mapping information required by the city in accordance with Minn. Rules
7819.4000 and 7819.4100. Within 90 days following completion of any work
pursuant to a permit, the permittee shall provide the director accurate maps
and drawings certifying the “as-built” location of all equipment installed,
owed and maintained by the permittee. Such maps and drawings shall include the
horizontal and vertical location of all facilities and equipment and shall be
provided consistent with the city's electronic mapping system, when practical
or as a condition imposed by the Director. Failure to provide maps and drawings
pursuant to this subsection shall be grounds for revoking the permit holder's
registration.
   (B)   Service laterals. All permits issued for the installation or repair of
service laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minn. Rules 7560.0150,
subpart 2, shall require the permittee's use of appropriate means of
establishing the horizontal locations of installed service laterals and the
service lateral vertical locations in those cases where the director reasonably
requires it. Permittees or their subcontractors shall submit to the director
evidence satisfactory to the director of the installed service lateral
locations. Compliance with this division (B) and with applicable Gopher State
One Call law and Minnesota Rules governing service laterals installed after
December 31, 2005 shall be a condition of any city approval necessary for:
      (1)   Payments to contractors working on a public improvement project
including those under M.S. Ch. 429; and
      (2)   City approval under development agreements or other subdivision or
site plan approval under M.S. Ch. 462. The Director shall reasonably determine
the appropriate method of providing such information to the city. Failure to
provide prompt and accurate information on the service laterals installed may
result in the revocation of the permit issued for the work or future permits to
the offending permittee or its subcontractors.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.44 LOCATION AND RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Placement, location, and relocation of facilities must comply with the
Act, with other applicable law, and with Minn. Rules 7819.3100, 7819.5000 and
7819.5100, to the extent the rules do not limit authority otherwise available
to cities.
   (B)   Corridors. 
      (1)   The city may assign a specific area within the right-of-way, or any
particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of facilities
that is or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will someday be
located within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction, or other permits
issued by the city involving the installation or replacement of facilities
shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
      (2)   Any registrant who has facilities in the right-of-way in a position
at variance with the corridors established by the city shall, no later than at
the time of the next reconstruction or excavation of the area where the
facilities are located, move the facilities to the assigned position within the
right-of-way, unless this requirement is waived by the city for good cause
shown, upon consideration of such factors as the remaining economic life of the
facilities, public safety, customer service needs and hardship to the
registrant.
   (C)   Nuisance. One year after the passage of this chapter, any facilities
found in a right-of-way that have not been registered shall be deemed to be a
nuisance. The city may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in
equity, including, but not limited to, abating the nuisance or taking
possession of the facilities and restoring the right-of-way to a useable
condition.
   (D)   Limitation of space. To protect health, safety, and welfare, or when
necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the city shall have
the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional facilities
within the right-of-way. In making such decisions, the city shall strive to the
extent possible to accommodate all existing and potential users of the right-
of-way, but shall be guided primarily by considerations of the public interest,
the public's needs for the particular utility service, the condition of the
right-of-way, the time of year with respect to essential utilities, the
protection of existing facilities in the right-of-way, and future city plans
for public improvements and development projects which have been determined to
be in the public interest.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.45 PRE-EXCAVATION FACILITIES LOCATION.
   In addition to complying with the requirements of M.S. 216D.01 through
216D.09 (“One Call Excavation Notice System”) before the start date of any
right-of-way excavation, each registrant who has facilities or equipment in the
area to be excavated shall mark the horizontal and vertical placement of all
said facilities. Any registrant whose facilities are less than 20 inches below
a concrete or asphalt surface shall notify and work closely with the excavation
contractor to establish the exact location of its facilities and the best
procedure for excavation.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.46  DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support, or move a registrant's facilities to protect it, the city
shall notify the local representative as early as is reasonably possible. The
costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and must be paid
within 30 days from the date of billing. Each registrant shall be responsible
for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way which it or its
facilities damage. Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost of
repairing any damage to the facilities of another registrant caused during the
city's response to an emergency occasioned by that registrant's facilities.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.47 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION (RESERVATION OF RIGHT).
   If the city vacates a right-of-way that contains the facilities of a
registrant, the registrant's rights in the vacated right-of-way are governed by
Minn. Rules 7819.3200.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.48 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By registering with the city, or by accepting a permit under this chapter, a
registrant or permittee agrees to defend and indemnify the city in accordance
with the provisions of Minn. Rule 7819.1250.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.49 ABANDONED AND UNUSABLE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Discontinued operations. A registrant who has determined to
discontinue all or a portion of its operations in the city must provide
information satisfactory to the city that the registrant's obligations for its
facilities in the right-of-way under this chapter have been lawfully assumed by
another registrant.
   (B)   Removal. Any registrant who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-
way shall remove it from that right-of-way if required in conjunction with
other right-of-way repair, excavation, or construction, unless this requirement
is waived by the city.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.50  APPEAL.
   (A)   A right-of-way user that:
      (1)   Has been denied registration;
      (2)   Has been denied a permit;
      (3)   Has had a permit revoked;
      (4)   Believes that the fees imposed are not in conformity with M.S. §
237.163, subd. 6; or
      (5)   Disputes a determination of the director regarding §
152.42 of this chapter may have the denial, revocation, fee imposition, or
decision reviewed, upon written request, by the City Council.
   (B)   The City Council shall act on a timely written request at its next
regularly scheduled meeting, provided the right-of-way user has submitted its
appeal with sufficient time to include the appeal as a regular agenda item. A
decision by the City Council affirming the denial, revocation, or fee
imposition will be in writing and supported by written findings establishing
the reasonableness of the decision.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.51 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   A permittee's rights are subject to the regulatory and police powers of the
city to adopt and enforce general ordinances as necessary to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019, § 1)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who moves or attempts to move traffic barricades or
attempts to evade barricades by driving any motor vehicle, motorcycle or
snowmobile over the railroad right-of-way at the intersection of West Mill
Street, as per §
152.06 of this chapter, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 903.06)
   (C)    Failure to abide by the requirements of §
152.07 of this chapter constitutes a petty misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 903.07)
(Ord. 2003-15, passed - -)
CHAPTER 153: TREES AND SHRUBBERY
Section
   
153.01   Private care of trees and shrubbery
   
153.02   Public care of trees and shrubbery
§ 153.01 PRIVATE CARE OF TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of all persons, whether owners or tenants, to
keep trees and shrubs planted or located within private property lines owned or
occupied by the owners or tenants, any portion of which trees or shrubs project
over or upon any street, sidewalk or public way, trimmed in a manner that the
trees and shrubs shall not interfere with or endanger travel on the street,
sidewalk or public way, as aforesaid.
   (B)   No person, whether the owner or tenant of any property, along public
streets and sidewalks shall permit any trees or shrubs to project over the
streets and sidewalks less than eight feet in height above the sidewalks or 12
feet above the streets.
(Prior Code, § 904.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.02 PUBLIC CARE OF TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   (A)   The City Council shall designate, by resolution, on what streets,
sidewalks, boulevards or public ways the trees and shrubs should be trimmed and
cared for, the kind of work to be done and what unsound trees and shrubs should
be removed.
   (B)   Before any tree care is performed pursuant to the resolution, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall publish notice that the City Council will meet to
consider the tree care as current expense. The notice shall be published in the
official newspaper and a copy mailed to every person having an interest in the
property concerned at his or her last known address at least once no less than
one week prior to the meeting, and shall state the date, time and place of the
meeting, the streets, sidewalks, boulevards or public ways affected, the
particular tree care required, and the estimated cost of the tree care as
service charges either in total amount or on the basis of the proposed
assessment.
   (C)   At the hearing or at any adjournment thereof, the Council shall hear
property owners with reference to the scope and desirability of the proposed
current service. The Council shall, thereupon, adopt a resolution confirming
the original current service project with modifications as it deems desirable
and shall provide for the doing of the work by day labor or by contract.
   (D)   A record shall be kept of the cost and portion of the cost properly
attributable to each lot and parcel of property abutting on the street,
sidewalk, boulevard or public way where the current service is done and shall
be filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   The owner of property on which or adjacent to which current service
has been performed under this section shall be personally liable for the cost
of the service. As soon as the service has been completed and the cost
determined, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare a bill and mail it to the
owner and, thereafter, the amount stated shall be due and payable at the office
of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (F)   On or before September 1 of each year, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall
prepare a statement of the unpaid current service charges and a description of
the property against which the charges should be assessed under this section.
The City Council may, by resolution, then spread the charges against the
property benefitted as a special assessment under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, and other pertinent statutes for certification to
the County Auditor and collection the following year along with current taxes.
(Prior Code, § 904.02)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Title
   
154.002   Intent and purpose
   
154.003   Standards
   
154.004   Conformance with this chapter
   
154.005   Uses not provided for within chapter
   
154.006   Authority
   
154.007   Comprehensive revision
   
154.008   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.020   Procedure
   
154.021   Amendments to zoning text or zoning map (rezoning)
   
154.022   Conditional use permits
   
154.023   Variances
   
154.024   Appeals from the decisions of the Zoning Officer/Administrator
   
154.025   Non-conforming buildings, structures and uses
   
154.026   Interim uses
   
154.027   Certificate of occupancy
Site and Building Plan Review
   
154.040   Purpose
   
154.041   Exceptions to review
   
154.042   Plans required
   
154.043   Plan review process
   
154.044   Plan agreements
   
154.045   Enforcement
   
154.046   Lapse of approval
   
154.047   Building Code
General Building and Performance Standards
   
154.060   Purpose
   
154.061   Dwelling unit restriction
   
154.062   Platted and unplatted property
   
154.063   Accessory buildings, uses and equipment
   
154.064   Home occupations
   
154.065   Drainage plans
   
154.066   Height regulations
   
154.067   Off-street parking requirements
   
154.068   Ingress and egress
   
154.069   Visibility at intersections and driveways
   
154.070   Accessory solar energy systems
   
154.071   Performance standards, site design, landscaping and screening
   
154.072   Water consumption
   
154.073   Fences
   
154.074   Low impact development
   
154.075   Limited keeping of chickens
   
154.076   Cannabis businesses
District Provisions
   
154.085   Establishment of districts
   
154.086   Zoning map
   
154.087   NRSF, Natural Resource Single-Family District
   
154.088   R-S, Rural Service Overlay District
   
154.089   R-1, Low Density Residential District
   
154.090   R-2, Traditional Residential District
   
154.091   R-3, Medium Density Residential District
   
154.092   R-4, High Density Residential District
   
154.093   HSD, Hester Street District
   
154.094   P-OS, Public-Open Space District
   
154.095   B-1A, Downtown Business District
   
154.096   B-1B, Downtown Mixed Use District
   
154.097   B-2, Highway Commercial District
   
154.098   B-3, General Commercial District
   
154.099   LI, Limited Industrial District
   
154.100   GI, General Industrial District
   
154.101   PUD, Planned Unit Development Overlay District
   
154.102   Cannon Recreational River District Overlay
   
154.103   Floodplain Overlay District
   
154.104   BP, Bluff Protection Overlay District
   
154.105   Wetland Protection Overlay District
Design Guidelines for Large Commercial and Retail Developments
   
154.115   Introduction
   
154.116   Multiple stores/structures
   
154.117   Entrances
   
154.118   Parking lot orientation
   
154.119   Pedestrian and bike circulation
   
154.120   Back sides
   
154.121   Outdoor storage, trash collection and loading areas
   
154.122   Central features and community spaces
   
154.123   Low impact development
   
154.124   Facades and exterior walls
   
154.125   Detail features and local character
   
154.126   Roofs
   
154.127   Materials and colors
   
154.128   Entryways
Tree Preservation and Management Practices
   
154.140   Purpose
   
154.141   Scope and application
   
154.142   Subdivision approval requirements
   
154.143   Custom graded lots/home builder requirements
   
154.144   Tree replacement
   
154.145   Compliance with plan
Signs
   
154.160   Findings, purpose and effect
   
154.161   Definitions
   
154.162   Substitution
   
154.163   Severability
   
154.164   Administration and enforcement
   
154.165   General provisions
   
154.166   Area measurement
   
154.167   Prohibited signs
   
154.168   District regulations
   
154.169   Subdivision regulations
   
154.170   Non-conforming signs
Subdivision Regulations (Platting)
   
154.185   General provisions
   
154.186   Definitions
   
154.187   Administrative subdivisions
   
154.188   Procedures for filing and review
   
154.189   Premature subdivisions
   
154.190   Plat and data requirements
   
154.191   Design standards
   
154.192   Park land dedication requirements
   
154.193   Required basic improvements
   
154.194   Non-platted subdivision
   
154.195   Variances, Planning Commission recommendations, standards
   
154.196   Misrepresentations
 
   
154.999   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   The City’s Zoning Ordinance has been amended in December 2006, January 2007,
June 2007, July 2007, September 2007, April 2008, May 2008, July 2010, August
2010, October 2011 and June 2014. More current amendments have been listed as
historical references under appropriate sections.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Dundas Zoning and Subdivision
Ordinance”, except as referred to herein, where it shall be known as “this
chapter” or “chapter”.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 1, sub. 1)
§ 154.002 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the purpose of:
   (A)   Protecting the public health, safety, morals, comfort, convenience and
general welfare;
   (B)   Providing orderly development of the residential, commercial,
agricultural, recreational and public areas;
   (C)   Dividing the City into zones and districts and regulating therein the
location and use of structures and land;
   (D)   Conserving the natural and scenic beauty and attractiveness of the
community;
   (E)   Providing for the compatibility of different land uses and the most
appropriate use of land throughout the community;
   (F)   Providing for the administration of this chapter and the amendments
thereto;
   (G)   Defining the powers and duties of the administrative officers and
bodies as provided hereinafter; and
   (H)   Prescribing penalties for the violation of the provisions of this
chapter or any amendment thereto.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 1, sub. 2)
§ 154.003 STANDARDS.
   Where the conditions imposed by and provision of this chapter are either
more or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other
ordinance of the City, the more restrictive condition, standard or requirement
shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 1, sub. 3)
§ 154.004 CONFORMANCE WITH THIS CHAPTER.
   No structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
altered, and no structure or land shall be used for any purpose which is not in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 1, sub. 4)
§ 154.005 USES NOT PROVIDED FOR WITHIN CHAPTER.
   Whenever in any zoning district a use is neither specifically permitted nor
denied, the use shall be considered prohibited. However, the City Council may
initiate an amendment to this chapter to provide for the particular use under
consideration, or may find that the use is not compatible for development in
the City.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 1, sub. 5)
§ 154.006 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by the Municipal
Planning Act, M.S. Ch. 462, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 1, sub. 6)
§ 154.007 COMPREHENSIVE REVISION.
   This chapter is a comprehensive revision of Prior City Code § 1500, as
adopted by the City.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 1, sub. 7)
§ 154.008 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE. A subordinate building or use which is located on
the same lot on which the main building or use is situated and is reasonably
necessary and incidental to the conduct of the primary or principle use of the
building or main use.
   AGRICULTURAL USES. Those uses commonly associated with the growing of
product on farms. These include: field crop farming; pasture for hay; fruit
growing; trees, plants, shrubs or flower nursery without building; truck
gardening; roadside stand for sale of fruits, vegetables or plants in season;
but not including, fur farms, animal feedlots, kennels or any raising of dairy
cows, slaughter steer or heifers or swine of any size.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The duly appointed person charged with enforcement of this
chapter.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords secondary access to abutting
property.
   ANIMAL FEEDLOT. A lot or building or combination of lots and buildings
intended for the confined feeding, breeding, raising or holding of animals
exceeding three animal units and specifically designed as a confinement area in
which manure may accumulate, or where the concentration of animals is such that
a vegetative cover cannot be maintained within the enclosure. Open lots used
for the feeding and rearing of poultry (poultry ranges) shall be considered to
be ANIMAL FEEDLOTS. Pastures shall not be considered ANIMAL FEEDLOTS. For
purposes of this definition, the following equivalents shall apply:
 
Animal    Animal Unit
1 horse   1.0
1 sheep   1.0
1 duck    0.02
1 turkey  0.018
1 chicken 0.01
 
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms with cooking facilities available which
is occupied as a residence by a single family. Includes buildings with two or
more dwelling units and efficiency units.
   AUTO REPAIR, MAJOR. General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of engines,
motor vehicles or trailers, including body work, framework, welding, painting,
transmission and radiator work, upholstery services, large vehicle (buses,
semi-trucks and trailers, commercial vehicles, commercial equipment, tractors,
and the like) repair, marine services, and similar.
   AUTO REPAIR, MINOR. Repair work for passenger vehicles and motorcycles that
includes replacement of any part or repair of any part which does not require
removal of the engine head or pan, engine transmission or differential;
including lubrication, tire, muffler, brake, and electrical services.
   BANQUET HALL. A facility for lease by private parties that may include
kitchen facilities for the preparation or catering of food, the sale of
alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption during scheduled events not
open to the public and/or general reception facilities. The facilities may be
allowed as an accessory use to a restaurant, on-sale liquor establishment,
hotel or similar use or as a principal use where permitted.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partly underground and with one-
half or less of its floor to ceiling height below the average grade of the
adjoining ground. In a floodplain, a BASEMENT is any area of a structure,
including crawl spaces, having its floor or base subgrade (below ground level)
on all four sides, regardless of the depth of excavation below ground level.
   BED AND BREAKFAST HOME. A dwelling, other than a hotel or motel, where
lodging and breakfast are provided to transient guests by a resident family for
compensation.
   BIG BOX. A retail establishment that contains more than 80,000 square feet
of floor area.
   BLUFF. A natural topographic feature such as a hill, cliff or embankment
having the following characteristics:
      (1)   The slope rises at least 25 feet above the toe of the bluff;
      (2)   The grade of the slope from the toe of the bluff to a point 25 feet
or more above the toe of the bluff averages 18% or greater; and
      (3)   An area with an average slope of less than 18% over a horizontal
distance of 50 feet or more shall not be considered part of the BLUFF.
   BLUFF, TOE OF. The point on a bluff where there is, as visually observed, a
clearly identifiable break in the slope, from gentler to steeper slope above.
If no break in the slope is apparent or if there is disagreement in the
breaking point, the TOE OF THE BLUFF shall be the lowest end of a 50-foot
segment, measured horizontally, with an average slope of 18% or greater.
   BLUFF, TOP OF. The point on a bluff where there is, as visually observed, a
clearly identifiable break in the slope, from steeper to gentler slope above.
If no break in the slope is apparent or if there is disagreement in the
breaking point, the TOP OF THE BLUFF shall be the highest end of a 50-foot
segment, measured horizontally, with an average slope of 18% or greater.
   BLUFF IMPACT ZONE. All land located between the toe and the top of the bluff
and the land located within 30 feet measured horizontally beyond the highest
point of the top of the bluff and 30 feet measured horizontally beyond the
lowest point of the toe of the bluff.
   BLUFFLINE. A line along the top and toe of a bluff delineating the limits of
the bluff impact zone.
   BOATHOUSE. A structure used solely for the storage of boats or boating
equipment.
   BUILDABLE AREAS. The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have
been provided.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof which may provide shelter or enclosure
for any use or occupancy.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance to be measured from the grade of a
building line to the top of the cornice of a flat roof, to the deck line of a
mansard roof, to the uppermost point on all other roof types.
   BUILDING SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between the furthest
protruding part of the building and a lot line.
   BUSINESS. Any establishment, occupation, employment or enterprise where
merchandise is manufactured, exhibited or sold, or where services are offered
for compensation.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS. Any of the cannabis businesses licensed by the state
pursuant to M.S. Ch. 342, including: cannabis microbusiness; cannabis
mezzobusiness; cannabis cultivator; cannabis manufacturer; cannabis retailer;
cannabis wholesaler; cannabis transporter; cannabis testing facility; cannabis
event organizer; cannabis delivery service; and medical cannabis combination
business.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION. Any activity involving the licensed indoor or outdoor
planting, growing, harvesting, drying, curing, grading, or trimming of cannabis
plants, cannabis flower, hemp plants, or hemp plant parts, and engaging in a
cannabis cultivation business.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION BUSINESS. A cannabis business licensed to grow cannabis
plants within the approved amount of space from seed or immature plant to
mature plant, harvest cannabis flower from mature plant, package and label
immature plants and seedlings and cannabis flower for sale to other cannabis
businesses, transport cannabis flower to a cannabis manufacturer located on the
same premises, and perform other actions approved by the OCM.
   CANNABIS OR HEMP MANUFACTURING. An establishment or use of land that
involves the compounding, processing, packaging, wholesaling, testing,
treatment, transportation, or delivery of cannabis or hemp products.
   CANNABIS RETAIL. A licensed establishment where cannabis flowers, immature
cannabis plants and seedlings, and related products as allowed by law are sold
to individual consumers who are at least 21 years of age.
   CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESS. A retail location and the retail location(s) of
mezzobusinesses with a retail operations endorsement, microbusinesses with a
retail operations endorsement, medical combination businesses operating a
retail location, excluding lower-potency hemp edible retailers.
   CANNABIS RETAILER. Any person, partnership, firm, corporation, or
association, foreign or domestic, selling cannabis product to a consumer and
not for the purpose of resale in any form.
   CARPORT. A canopy constructed of metal or other materials supported by
posts, either ornamental or solid, and completely open on one or more sides.
   CLUB or LODGE. An association of persons who are bona fide members paying
dues, use of premises being restricted to members and their guests.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION - INDOOR. A bowling alley, car track, jump center,
golf, pool hall, vehicle racing or amusement, dance hall, skating, trampoline,
fire arms range, amusement ride, and similar uses whose activities occur inside
a building.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The policies, statements, goals and interrelated plans
for private and public land and water use, transportation and community
facilities including recommendations for plan execution, documented in texts,
ordinances and maps which constitute the guide for the future development of
the City or any portion of the City.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A land use or development as defined by ordinance that
would be inappropriate generally but may be allowed with appropriate
restrictions as provided by official controls upon a finding that:
      (1)   Certain conditions as detailed in this chapter exist;
      (2)   The use or development conforms to the comprehensive land use plan
of the City; and
      (3)   Is compatible with the existing neighborhood.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Council in accordance with
procedures specified in this chapter, as a flexibility device to enable the
Council to assign dimensions to a proposed use or conditions surrounding it
after consideration of adjacent uses and their functions and the special
problems which the proposed use presents.
   CONDOMINIUM. A multiple dwelling containing individually owned dwelling
units and jointly owned and shared areas and facilities, which dwelling is
subject to the provisions of the state’s Condominium Law, M.S. §§ 515A.1-101 et
seq.
   CONVENIENCE FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment which serves food in or on
disposable or edible containers in individual servings for consumption on or
off the premises.
   COOPERATIVE HOUSING. A multiple-family dwelling owned and maintained by the
residents and subject to the provisions of M.S. Ch. 515B, as they may be
amended from time to time. The entire structure and real property is under
common ownership as contrasted to a condominium dwelling where individual units
are under separate individual occupant ownership.
   DAY CARE. The care of children outside of their own homes for a part of the
24-hour day by persons unrelated to them by blood or marriage. DAY CARE
includes family day care, group family day care and care in group day care
centers.
   DEVELOPER. The owner of the property, or a person or entity authorized in
writing by the owner of the property to file the applications for the PUD and
who will become the owner of the property prior to any development of the
property.
   DOG KENNEL. A place where three or more dogs, over three months of age, are
boarded, bred and/or offered for sale, except a veterinary clinic.
   DRIVE-IN. Any use where products and/or services are provided to the
customer under conditions where the customer does not have to leave the car or
where fast service to the auto manufactured occupants is the principal service
offered.
   DUPLEX. A structure containing only two dwelling units where one unit sits
on top of the other unit.
   DWELLING UNIT. A residential building or portion thereof intended for
occupancy by a single family, but not including hotels, motels, boarding or
rooming houses or tourist homes.
   DWELLING, ATTACHED. A dwelling which is joined to another dwelling at one or
more sides by a party wall or walls.
   DWELLING, DETACHED. A dwelling which is entirely surrounded by open space on
the same lot.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building having accommodations for and occupied
exclusively by more than two families.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building used exclusively for occupancy by two
families living independently of each other.
   EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location of
floodway boundaries so that floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance of
underground or overhead gas, electrical or water transmission or distribution
systems, collection, communication, supply or disposal systems by public
utilities, municipal or other governmental agencies, but not including
buildings.
   FAMILY. One or more persons each related to the other by blood, marriage,
adoption or foster care, or a group of not more than three persons not so
related maintaining a common household and using common cooking and kitchen
facilities.
   FARM. A tract of land which is principally used for agricultural purposes,
all of which is owned and operated by a single family, farm corporation,
individual or corporation.
   FENCE. Any partition, structure, wall or gate erected within the required
yard.
   FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A final development plan based upon the preliminary
development plan and presented by a PUD applicant.
   FLOOD. A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream, or in the
stage of a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry
areas.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY. The frequency for which it is expected that a specific
flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway. FLOOD
FRINGE is synonymous with the term FLOODWAY FRINGE used in the Flood Insurance
Study for the City.
   FLOODPLAIN. The beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake or
watercourse that have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional flood.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding, primarily for the
reduction of elimination of flood damages.
   FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
   FLOOR AREA. The net usable floor area of the various floors.
   GARAGE. An accessory building or accessory portion of the principal building
which is intended for and used to store the private passenger vehicle of the
family or families resident upon the premises.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A lawful occupation carried on in the home when engaged in
by person or persons residing in the dwelling. (See § 154.064 of this chapter.)
   HOTEL. Any building occupied as the more or less temporary abiding place of
individuals and containing 20 or more separately secured guest rooms, used,
designated or intended to be used, let or hired out to be occupied, or which
are occupied by 20 or more individuals for compensation whether compensation be
paid directly or indirectly.
   JUNK YARD. An area where waste, discarded or salvaged materials are bought,
sold, exchanged, stored, baled, cleaned, packed, disassembled or handled,
including, but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber
products, bottles and used building materials.
   LOT. A parcel, piece or portion of land in a subdivision or plat of land,
separated from other parcels or portions by description as on a subdivision or
registered land survey, for the purpose of sale or lease or separate use
thereof.
   LOT (OF RECORD). A parcel of land, whether subdivided or otherwise legally
described, as of 10-23-1969, or approved by the City as a lot subsequent to the
date, and which is occupied by or intended for occupancy by one principal
building or principal use together with any necessary buildings and such open
spaces as required by this chapter and having its principal frontage upon a
street.
   LOT AREA. The area of a lot in a horizontal plane bounded by the lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two or more
intersecting streets, or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of a
continuous street, the interior angle of which does not exceed 135 degrees.
Both sides of the lot fronting roads are subject to front yard setbacks.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front line and the rear
lot line.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or dedicated
public street.
   LOT LINE, REAR. That boundary of a lot which is opposite the front lot line.
If the REAR LOT LINE is less than ten feet in length or of the lot forms a
point at the rear, the REAR LOT LINE shall be a line ten feet in length within
the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a
rear lot line.
   LOT SUBSTANDARD. A lot or parcel of land for which a deed has been recorded
in the office of the County Recorder upon or prior to the effective date of
this chapter which does not meet the minimum lot area structure setbacks or
other dimensional standards of this chapter.
   LOT, THROUGH. Any lot other than a corner lot which abuts more than one
street.
   LOT WIDTH. The maximum horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a
lot at the setback line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or
more in length, and when erected on site is built on a permanent chassis and
designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air
conditioning and electrical systems contained therein; except that, the term
includes any structure which meets all the requirements and with respect to
which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the
Minnesota Secretary of State and complies with the statutory standards
established by M.S. § 327.31, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any contiguous site, lot, field or tract of land
upon which two or more manufactured homes are located and includes commonly
owned property and any building, structure, vehicle or enclosure intended for
use as a part of the equipment of the MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.
   MANUFACTURED HOME STAND. The part of an individual manufactured home lot
which has been reserved for placement of the manufactured home, appurtenant
structures or additions.
   MINING. All or any part of the process involved in the extraction of
minerals by removing the overburden and extracting directly from the mineral
deposits thereby exposed.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A use, structure or parcel of land lawfully in
existence, recorded or authorized before the effective date of this chapter and
not conforming to the regulations for the district in which it is situated.
   NURSING HOME. A building having accommodations where care is provided for
two or more invalids, infirmed, aged convalescent or physically disabled
persons who are not of the immediate family; but not including hospitals,
clinics, sanitariums or similar institutions.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building, wire, fence,
stockpile, refuse, fill, structure or matter in, along, across or projecting
into any channel, watercourse or regulatory floodplain which may impede, retard
or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself or by catching
or collecting debris carried by the water.
   OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE. A space accessible from a street, alley or way, in
a building or on the lot, for the use of trucks while loading or unloading
merchandise or materials. The space shall be of a size as to accommodate one
truck of the type typically used in the particular business.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK. A mark delineating the highest water level which
has been maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape. The ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK is commonly that point where the
natural vegetation changes from predominantly aquatic to predominantly
terrestrial. In areas where the ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK is not evident,
setbacks shall be measured from the stream bank of the following bodies that
have permanent flow or open water: the main channel; adjoining side channels;
backwaters; and sloughs.
   OUTSIDE STORAGE. The keeping, in an unenclosed area (outside a building), of
any goods, junk material, merchandise or vehicles in the same place for more
than 24 hours.
   PARKING SPACE. An area enclosed in the main building, in an accessory
building, or unenclosed, sufficient in size to store one auto manufactured
which has adequate access to a public street or alley and permitting
satisfactory ingress and egress of an auto manufactured.
   PERMITTED USE. A use which may be lawfully established a particular district
or districts; provided, it conforms with all requirements, regulations and
performance standards of the districts.
   PLACE OF WORSHIP. A building, together with its accessory buildings and
uses, where persons assemble at regular intervals for religious worship and
which building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, is maintained
and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain public worship,
including, but not limited to, churches, chapels, temples, mosques, and
synagogues. Examples of accessory uses for a place of worship include, but are
not limited to, classrooms for religious instruction, kitchens, banquet and
meeting rooms, and offices in support of the worship use. Examples of auxiliary
uses which are not considered a place of worship, coffee shops, day cares,
restaurants, outdoor sports or recreational complexes, retreat homes,
publishing establishments, schools, hospitals, and chemical dependancy
treatment centers.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A zoning district containing a large lot or
tract of land developed as a unit rather than as individual development wherein
two or more buildings may be located in relationship to each other rather than
to lot lines or zoning district boundaries.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD) AGREEMENT. The agreement to be entered into
between the developer and the City to incorporate all terms, requirements and
conditions of the PUD approval.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the City.
   PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A formal development plan in preliminary form
presented by a PUD applicant.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from
subordinate or accessory uses.
   PROPERTY. When used in §
154.100 of this chapter, all land included within a PUD.
   PUBLIC USES. Uses owned or operated by municipal, school districts, county,
state or other governmental units.
   REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of a
stream or river influenced by a natural or human-made obstruction. In an urban
area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive bridge crossings
would most typically constitute a REACH.
   RECREATION PUBLIC. Includes all uses such as tennis courts, ball fields,
picnic areas and the like that are commonly provided for the public at parks,
playgrounds, community centers and other sites owned and operated by a unit of
government for the purpose of providing recreation.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in Minnesota, and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 100-year
recurrence interval. REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the term BASE FLOOD used
in the Flood Insurance Study.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. A point not less than one foot above
the elevation of the floodplain, plus any increases in flood heights
attributable to encroachments on the floodplain that result from designation of
a floodway. It is the elevation to which uses regulated by this chapter are
required to be elevated or flood-proofed.
   SELF-STORAGE FACILITY. A building or group of buildings in a controlled
access compound that contains equal or varying sizes of individual,
compartmentalized and controlled access stalls or lockers for the storage of
residential or commercial customers goods and wares. The facilities do not
include sales, service or storage of hazardous materials.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a building and street
right-of-way or property line. Distances are to be measured perpendicularly
from the property line to the most outerly extended portion of the structure at
ground level.
   SKETCH PLAN. An informal development plan presented by a PUD applicant.
   SOLAR ENERGY. Radiant energy (direct, diffuse or reflected) received from
the sun.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A set of devices whose primary purpose is to collect
solar energy and convert and store it for useful purposes, including heating
and cooling buildings or other energy using processes, or to produce generated
power by means of any combination of collecting, transferring or converting
solar generated energy.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, ARCHITECTURALLY INTEGRATED. A solar energy system or
component thereof that is an integral part of a building, rather than a
separate mechanical device, replacing or substituting for an architectural
component of the building including but not limited to systems that are
contained within roofing materials, windows, and skylights.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, PRINCIPAL. Solar energy systems designed to supply
energy for off-site uses on the distribution grid, consistent with M.S.
216B.1641 as may be amended, or any ground-mount solar energy arrays that are
the principal use on the lot, designed for providing energy to off-site uses or
export to the wholesale market. This definition includes solar farms and
community solar gardens.
   SOLAR FARM. A commercial facility that converts sunlight into electricity,
whether by photovoltaics (PV), concentrating solar thermal devices (CST), or
other conversion technology, for the primary purpose of wholesale sales of
generated electricity. A solar farm is the principal land use for the parcel on
which it is located.
   SOLAR GARDEN, COMMUNITY. A solar-electric (photovoltaic) array that provides
retail electric power (or a financial proxy for retail power) to multiple
community members or businesses residing or located off-site from the location
of the solar energy system, consistent with M.S. 216B.1641 or successor
statute.
   SOLAR LOT. A lot that has its designated north/south lot lines lie within 15
degrees east or west of the axis and the lot frontages shall face an east/west
directed street (varying up to 20 degrees).
   STEEP SLOPE. Land having average slopes over 12%, as measured over a
horizontal distance of 50 feet, that are not bluffs.
   STREET. A public right-of-way which affords a primary means of access to
abutting property and shall also include avenue, highway, road or way.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any flood
and the surface of the floor next above. A basement shall be counted as a
STORY.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground or on-site utilities, including, but not limited to, buildings,
factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins, manufactured homes, travel
trailers/vehicles not meeting the exemption criteria specified in §
154.093 of this chapter and other similar items.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots, blocks
and/or sites, with or without streets or highways and includes resubdivision.
   TOE OF THE BLUFF. See BLUFF, TOE OF.
   TOP OF THE BLUFF. See BLUFF, TOP OF.
   TOWNHOUSE. One of three or more dwelling units that are physically attached
on two sides (not the back side), have separate entrances and have no other
dwelling unit above.
   TWIN HOME. A two-family dwelling with a common wall between the two dwelling
units.
   USE. The purpose of activity for which the land or building thereon is
designated, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied, utilized or
maintained.
   VARIANCE. The procedure established to consider a modification or variation
from the requirements of this chapter including restrictions on non-
conformities.
   YARD. An open space on a lot, which is occupied, and unobstructed by a
structure from its lowest ground level to the sky, except as expressly
permitted in this chapter. The YARD shall extend along a lot line and at right
angles to the lot line to a depth or width specified in yard regulations for
the district in which the lot is located.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of the lot between the inner
side yard lines and lying between the front line of the lot and the nearest
line of the building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the side line of the lot and the nearest line of
the building and extending from the front line of the lot to the rear yard.
   ZONING DISTRICT. An area or areas within the limits of the zoning
jurisdiction for which the regulations and requirements governing the use are
uniform.
   ZONING MAPS. The maps or map incorporated into this chapter as part thereof
and as amended, designating the zoning district.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 2; Ord. 2018-03, passed 9-10-2018, § 1, 2; Ord. 2023-
03, passed 5-22-2023, § 1; Ord. 2023-07, passed 8-28-2023, § 1; Ord. 2024-03,
passed 11-25-2024, § 1)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.020 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Three copies of a request for a zoning amendment, conditional use
permit, variance or appeal shall be filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer. This
request shall be accompanied by an application fee as determined by the City
Council. This fee cannot be refunded. The request shall include detailed
written and graphic materials fully explaining the proposed change, development
or use, and a list of adjacent property owners. The City Council will initiate
action on the request when all the information requirements have been complied
with.
   (B)   A public hearing is required for all zoning amendments, conditional
use permits, variance requests or appeals. Adjacent landowners within 350 feet
must be notified about the hearing ten days prior to the date on which it will
occur.
   (C)   The City Council shall consider possible adverse affects of the
proposed amendment, conditional use or variance. Its judgment shall be based
upon, but not limited to, the following factors.
      (1)   The proposed action shall be consistent with the policies and plans
in the City’s Comprehensive Guide Plan.
      (2)   The proposed action shall be consistent with performance standards
as outlined in §§
154.060 through
154.074 of this chapter and in the applicable districts as described in this
chapter.
      (3)   The proposed use can be accommodated with existing public services
and will not overburden the City’s service capacity.
   (D)   Approval of a request shall require passage by a majority vote of the
City Council, except for a rezoning amendment from residential to commercial or
industrial zoning which requires at least a two-thirds majority vote.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 20, sub. 1)
§ 154.021 AMENDMENTS TO ZONING TEXT OR ZONING MAP (REZONING).
   (A)   The City Council may initiate a request to amend the text or the
district boundaries of this chapter. Any person owning real estate within the
City may initiate a request to amend the district boundaries or text of this
chapter so as to affect the real estate.
   (B)   All applications to change the boundaries of any zoning district shall
include the following information:
      (1)   The information requested on the zoning amendment form;
      (2)   A statement explaining the reason for the requested change in
zoning;
      (3)   A statement regarding the compatibility of the requested change
with the City’s Comprehensive Plan; and
      (4)   A map, plot plan or survey plot of the property or properties to be
rezoned which illustrates the location, dimensions, zoning, existing uses and
buildings located on adjacent properties within 350 feet.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall not recommend, nor the City Council
approve or deny, a petition to rezone property unless findings are made that
the petition is consistent with the intent of the Comprehensive Plan and that
the new zoning district permits uses that are consistent with the trend of
development in the area near the property to be rezoned.
   (D)   Zoning amendments shall not become effective until such time as the
City Council approves an ordinance reflecting the amendment and after the
ordinance is published in the official newspaper.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 20, sub. 2)
§ 154.022 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   The conditional use permit application shall be accompanied by a site
plan which shall include the following information:
      (1)   Location of all buildings on lots including both existing and
proposed structures;
      (2)   Location and number of existing and proposed parking spaces;
      (3)   Lot dimensions and area;
      (4)   Existing and proposed setbacks of all buildings to be located on
the property in question;
      (5)   A legal description of property under consideration; and
      (6)   The information requested on the sketch plan form, when applicable.
   (B)   In making its determination on a proposed conditional use, the City
may consider the nature of the adjoining land or buildings, whether or not a
similar use is already in existence and located on the same premises or on
other lands in close proximity, the effect upon traffic into and from the
premises, and any other factor(s) the City deems necessary in its consideration
for determining the effect of the use on the general welfare, public health and
safety.
   (C)   (1)   A violation of any condition set forth in a conditional use
permit shall be a violation of this chapter. Failure to correct the violation
after 30 days following official notice of the violation shall be cause for
termination of the permit.
      (2)   A conditional use permit shall become null and void one year after
being granted by the City Council unless the applicant has used the permit, or
if the use was begun by the applicant within one year of having the permit
approved, but then discontinued the use for more than 90 days, then the permit
shall also become null and void.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 20, sub. 3)
§ 154.023 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Establishment of Board of Adjustment. The City Council is hereby
established as the Board of Adjustment and vested with the authority as is
provided by state statutes. The findings and rulings of the Board of Adjustment
shall be final.
   (B)   Purpose. Request for variance from the literal provisions of this
chapter, including variances in the Cannon Recreational River District, may be
made in instances when the applicant establishes that there are practical
difficulties in complying with the zoning ordinance. PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES, as
used in connection with the granting of a variance, means that the property
owner proposes to use the property in a reasonable manner not permitted by this
chapter; the plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to the
property not created by the landowner; and the variance, if granted, will not
alter the essential character of the locality. Economic considerations alone do
not constitute practical difficulties. Practical difficulties include, but are
not limited to, inadequate access to direct sunlight for solar energy systems.
A variance for a use that is not allowed under this chapter for property in the
zone where the affected person’s land is located is not permitted.
   (C)   Findings. In acting upon the request for a variance, the City Council
shall make the following findings of fact.
      (1)   The proposed variance will not impair an adequate supply of light
and air to adjacent property.
      (2)   The proposed variance will not unreasonably increase the congestion
in the public street.
      (3)   The proposed variance is in harmony with the general purposes and
intent of the ordinance and is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
      (4)   The need for a variance is due to circumstances unique to the
property and is not created by the landowner.
      (5)   The applicant experiences practical difficulties, other than
economic hardship alone, in complying with the existing zoning ordinance.
      (6)   Conditions imposed in the granting of a variance are directly
related to and bear a rough proportionality to the impact created by the
variance.
   (D)   Limitations.
      (1)   A violation of any condition set forth in granting a variance shall
be a violation of this chapter and automatically make the variance null and
void.
      (2)   Unless within one year from the date the variance is approved, a
building permit has been issued, and the work as permitted by the variance has
been substantially completed, then the variance shall be null and void.
      (3)   A variance is valid only for the particular project for which it
was granted.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 20, sub. 4)
§ 154.024 APPEALS FROM THE DECISIONS OF THE ZONING OFFICER/ ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this provision is to allow the Board of
Adjustment to resolve disputes concerning the interpretation of the provisions
in this chapter.
   (B)   Appeal. Any affected party may appeal an administrative decision or
interpretation of zoning code provisions made by the Zoning Officer or
Administrator.
   (C)   Decisions final. The decision of the Board of Adjustment shall be
final.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 20, sub. 5)
§ 154.025 NON-CONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to provide for the regulation of
non-conforming buildings, structures and uses and to specify those
requirements, circumstances and conditions under which non-conforming
buildings, structures and uses will be operated and maintained.
      (2)   It is the intent of this section that all non-conforming uses shall
be eventually brought into conformity.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Any structure or use lawfully existing upon the effective date of
this chapter may be continued through repair, replacement, restoration or
improvement at the size and in the same manner of operation existing upon such
date. Furthermore, an expansion of the non-conformity may be permitted by the
Board of Adjustment provided reasonable regulations to prevent and abate
nuisances and to protect the public health, welfare and safety are included as
conditions of the expansion.
      (2)   If a non-conforming building, structure or use is destroyed to the
extent of more than 50% of its fair market value, the value to be determined by
the County Assessor, and no building permit has been applied for within 180
days of when the property is damaged, then the building and the land on which
the building was located shall be subject to all the regulations specified by
this chapter for the district in which it is located. If the damage is less
than 50%, the building may be restored to its former condition, if it is
reconstructed within 12 months after the date of the damage.
      (3)   Normal maintenance of a building or other structure containing or
relating to a lawful non-conforming use is permitted, as long as the repairs or
alterations do not physically extend or intensify the non-conforming use.
      (4)   In the event that a non-conforming use of any building or building
and land is discontinued for a period of one year, the use of the same shall
conform thereafter to the uses permitted in the district in which it is
located.
      (5)   If any non-conforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including floods, to an extent of 50% or more if its market value at the time
of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed, except in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter. The applicable provisions for establishing new uses
or new structures in §§ 154.060 through 154.074 or 154.085 and 154.086 will
apply depending upon whether the use or structure is in the Floodway or Flood
Fringe District, respectively.
   (C)   Non-conforming uses in the floodplain. A structure or the use of a
structure or premises which was lawful before the passage or amendment of this
chapter, but which is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter may
be continued, subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   No such use shall be expanded, changed, enlarged or altered in a
way which increases its non-conformity.
      (2)   Any alteration or addition to a non-conforming structure or non-
conforming use which would result in increasing the flood damage potential of
that structure or use shall be protected to the regulatory flood protection
elevation in accordance with any of the elevation on fill or flood-proofing
techniques (i.e., FP-1 through FP-4 flood-proofing classifications) allowable
in the State Building Code, except as further restricted in §
154.094 of this chapter.
      (3)   The cost of any structural alterations or additions to any non-
conforming structure over the life of the structure shall not exceed 50% of the
market value of the structure unless the conditions of this section are
satisfied. The cost of all structural alterations and additions constructed
since the adoption of the Community’s initial floodplain controls must be
calculated into today’s current cost which will include all costs such as
construction materials and a reasonable cost placed on all manpower or labor.
If the current cost of all previous and proposed alterations and additions
exceeds 50% of the current market value of the structure, then the structure
must meet the standards of §§
154.060 through
154.074 or
154.085 and
154.086 for new structures depending upon whether the structure is in the
Floodway or Flood Fringe, respectively.
      (4)   If any non-conforming use is discontinued for 12 consecutive
months, any future use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
The assessor shall notify the Zoning Administrator in writing of instances of
non-conforming uses which have been discontinued for a period of 12 months.
      (5)   If any non-conforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including floods, to an extent of 50% or more if its market value at the time
of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed, except in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter. The applicable provisions for establishing new uses
or new structures in §§
154.060 through
154.074 or
154.085 and
154.086 will apply depending upon whether the use or structure is in the
Floodway or Flood Fringe District, respectively.
   (D)   Non-conforming uses in the Cannon River Recreational District.
      (1)   Non-conforming uses shall not be intensified, enlarged or expanded
beyond the permitted or delineated boundaries of the use or activity. No
structural alteration, addition or repair to a non-conforming structure shall
exceed 50% of the assessed value of that structure.
      (2)   Non-conforming sanitary systems inconsistent with the minimum
performance standards of the state’s Pollution Control Agency and the state’s
Department of Health shall be brought into conformity or discontinued within
five years of the date of enactment of this chapter.
      (3)   Substandard structures in existence prior to the effective date of
enactment of this chapter that do not meet the minimum setbacks or other
dimensional requirements of this chapter are substandard structures. All
substandard structures shall be allowed to continue; except that, any
structural alteration or addition to a substandard structure that will increase
the substandard dimensions shall not be allowed.
      (4)   Substandard lots of record in the office of the county’s Register
of Deeds (or Registrar of Titles) prior to the date of enactment of this
chapter which do not meet the lot size requirements of §
154.061 of this chapter may be allowed as building sites; provided:
         (a)   The use is permitted in the zoning district;
         (b)   The lot is in separate ownership from abutting lands; and
         (c)   All other sanitary and dimensional requirements of this chapter
are complied with insofar as practical.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 20, sub. 6; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-22-2023, § 2)
§ 154.026 INTERIM USES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of allowing interim uses is:
      (1)   To allow a use for a brief period of time until a permanent
location is obtained or while the permanent location is under construction;
      (2)   To allow a use that is presently judged acceptable by the City
Council, but that with anticipated development or redevelopment, will not be
acceptable in the future or will be replaced in the future by a permitted or
conditional use allowed within the respective district; and
      (3)   To allow a use which is reflective of anticipated long range change
to an area and which is in compliance with the Comprehensive Plan; provided
that, the use maintains harmony and compatibility with surrounding uses and is
in keeping with the architectural character and design standards of existing
uses and development.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Existing uses. Uses defined as interim uses which presently exist
as a legal use or a legal non-conforming use within a respective zoning
district shall be considered approved and shall be treated as allowed uses.
      (2)   New uses. Uses defined as interim uses which do not presently exist
within a respective zoning district shall be processed according to the
standards and procedures for a conditional use permit as established by §
154.022 of this chapter.
   (C)   General standards. An interim use shall comply with the following.
      (1)   Existing uses shall be in conformance with zoning and building
standards in effect at the time of initial construction and development and
shall continue to be governed by the regulations in the future.
      (2)   New uses shall meet the following criteria:
         (a)   Meet the standards of a conditional use permit set forth in §
154.022 of this chapter;
         (b)   Conform to the applicable performance standards of this chapter;
         (c)   The use must be allowed as an interim use in the respective
zoning district;
         (d)   The date or event that will terminate the use can be identified
with certainty;
         (e)   The use will not impose additional costs on the public if it is
necessary for the public to take the property in the future; and
         (f)   The user shall agree to any conditions that the City Council
deems appropriate for permission of the proposed use.
   (D)   Termination. An interim use shall terminate on the happening of any of
the following events, whichever first occurs:
      (1)   The date or event stated in the permit;
      (2)   Upon violation of conditions under which the permit was issued;
      (3)   Upon change in the City’s zoning regulations which renders the use
non-conforming; and/or
      (4)   The redevelopment of the use and property upon which it is located
to a permitted or conditional use as allowed within the respective zoning
district.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 20, sub. 7)
§ 154.027 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No building or structure hereafter erected or moved, or that portion
of an existing structure or building erected or moved, shall be occupied or
used in whole or in part for any purpose whatsoever until a certificate of
occupancy shall have been issued by the Building Inspector stating that the
building or structure complies with all of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The certificate shall be applied for coincident with the application
for a building permit, conditional use permit and/or variance and shall be
issued after the Building Official has found the building or structure
satisfactory and given final inspection. The application shall be accompanied
by a fee as established by City Council resolution.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 21)
SITE AND BUILDING PLAN REVIEW
§ 154.040 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish a formal site plan review
procedure and provide regulations pertaining to the enforcement of site design
and construction standards consistent with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 3, sub. 1)
§ 154.041 EXCEPTIONS TO REVIEW.
   Except for developments in the Rural Service District, single-family
detached dwellings, two-family attached dwellings and minor changes, additions
or alterations as determined by the Zoning Administrator, all building and site
plans for multiple-family, commercial, PUDs, subdivision or industrial
construction shall be subject to review and approval by City staff.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 3, sub. 2)
§ 154.042 PLANS REQUIRED.
   (A)   In order to evaluate compliance with building performance standards,
five copies and one electronic file of the following plans and/or
specifications shall be submitted in fulfillment of the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   Plans to be submitted shall be to scale and shall include:
      (1)   Topographic map prepared by a licensed surveyor with: contours at
one-foot intervals; property boundaries and legal description; all on-site
improvements shown; adjacent streets with curb lines and spot elevations at top
of curb (or edge of pavement if no curb); existing utilities and service
connections; trees over four inches in diameter identified or tree lines if
grouped; existing telephone, gas, electric and cable utilities identified as
overhead or underground;
      (2)   Proposed grading, drainage and erosion control plan with: all
proposed improvements; proposed contours; proposed drainage system plan;
proposed erosion control facilities. Drainage system plan design objective
should be to provide controls such that post-development runoff does not exceed
predevelopment runoff. Plans and specifications shall be prepared by an
architect or engineer, as appropriate, licensed to practice in the state; and
      (3)   Landscape plans shall be required in order to determine compliance
with the performance standards in §§
154.060 through
154.074 of this chapter. Failure to implement the approved landscape plan
within six months of the issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall be cause
for revocation of the certificate of occupancy. All landscape plans submitted
for approval shall contain or have attached thereto the following information:
         (a)   The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed
structures, parking lots and drives, roadways and rights-of-way, sidewalks,
bicycle paths, ground signs, lighting, refuse disposal areas, bicycle parking
areas, fences, freestanding electrical equipment, tot lots and other
recreational facilities and other freestanding structural features;
         (b)   The location, quantity, size and name, both botanical and common
names, of all proposed planting materials;
         (c)   Existing and proposed grading of the site, including proposed
berms, indicating contours, at one foot intervals;
         (d)   Specification of the type and boundaries of all proposed ground
cover;
         (e)   Irrigation plan, if proposed;
         (f)   Elevations, cross-sections of fences and other details as
determined necessary by the City Engineer;
         (g)   Location, size and name of existing trees, if any, and any
unique or special areas of existing vegetation;
         (h)   Building plans to scale, to include: interior floor layout and
usage; UBC (State Building Code) occupancy group; exterior elevation renderings
identifying exterior materials and all architectural features. Plans and
specifications shall be prepared by an architect or engineer, as appropriate,
licensed to practice in the state;
         (i)   Signage plan, per §§
154.160 through
154.170 of this chapter;
         (j)   Exterior lighting plan to be prepared by a licensed electrical
engineer or electrician, as appropriate;
         (k)   Geotechnical investigation (if required by City Engineer); and
         (l)   Copies of storm sewer calculations and soils reports shall
accompany the plans.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 3, sub. 3)
§ 154.043 PLAN REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish a formal plan
review procedure and provide regulations pertaining to the enforcement of site
design and construction standards as agreed to by the applicant through
officially submitted plan documents.
   (B)   Building permits. The Building Official and the Fire Marshal shall
approve all plans prior to the issuance of any building permit.
   (C)   Staff review.
      (1)   Three weeks shall be allowed for staff review to be completed.
      (2)   If not approved as submitted, one copy of the plans will be
returned to the applicant with required corrections or changes noted in red.
      (3)   Ten days shall be allowed for review of revised plans.
   (D)   Notification. If approved as submitted, notification will be given to
the applicant. If the applicant and the City Engineer cannot agree on the
proposed site and/or building features, then the applicant shall be required to
present the proposal to the Planning Commission for resolution of issues. The
Planning Commission shall determine whether these requirements have been
adequately addressed and incorporated, and shall forward its recommendations to
the City Council for approval.
   (E)   Plan agreements.
      (1)   All site and construction plans officially submitted to the City
shall be treated as a formal agreement between the applicant and the City.
      (2)   Once approved, no changes, modifications or alterations shall be
made to any plan detail, standard or specification without prior submission of
a plan modification request to the Building Official and City Engineer for
review and approval.
   (F)   Enforcement. The Building Official shall have the authority to order
the stopping of any and all site improvement activities, when and where a
violation of the provisions of this section has been officially documented by
the Building Official or the City Engineer.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 3, sub. 4)
§ 154.044 PLAN AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   All site and construction plans officially submitted to the City shall
be treated as a formal agreement between the owner/developer, building
contractor and the City.
   (B)   Once approved, no changes, modifications or alterations shall be made
to any plan detail, standard or specification without prior submission of a
plan modification request to the Building Official and City Engineer for review
and approval.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 3, sub. 5)
§ 154.045 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Building Official shall have the authority to order the stopping of any
and all site improvement activities, when and where a violation of the
provisions of this section has been officially documented by the Building
Official or the City Engineer.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 3, sub. 6)
§ 154.046 LAPSE OF APPROVAL.
   Unless otherwise specified by the Zoning Administrator or City Council as
may be applicable, the site plan approval shall become null and void one year
after the date of approval, unless the property owner or applicant has
substantially started the construction of any building, structure, addition or
alteration, or use requested as part of the approved plan. The property owner
or applicant shall have the right to submit an application for time extension
in accordance with this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 3, sub. 7)
§ 154.047 BUILDING CODE.
   The review and approval of site improvements pursuant to the requirements of
City’s adopted Building and Fire Codes shall be in addition to the site plan
review process established under this subchapter. The site plan approval
process does not imply compliance with the requirements of these Building and
Fire Codes.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 3, sub. 8)
GENERAL BUILDING AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 154.060 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish general development
performance standards. These standards are intended and designed: to assure
compatibility of uses; to prevent blight, deterioration and decay; and to
enhance the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the community.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 4, sub. 1)
§ 154.061 DWELLING UNIT RESTRICTION.
   (A)   No garage, tent or accessory building shall, at any time, be used as
living quarters, temporarily or permanently.
   (B)   No basement or cellar, unless used as a portion of the living space of
a dwelling which is affixed to the basement or cellar, or as an earth sheltered
home, may be used as a residence or dwelling unit, either temporarily or
permanently.
   (C)   Except in the case of planned unit developments, no more than one
principal building shall be located upon a lot.
   (D)   Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 462.3593, subd. 9, as it may
be amended from time to time, the City opts out of the requirements of M.S. §
462.3593, as it may be amended from time to time, which defines and regulates
temporary family health care dwellings.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 4, sub. 2; Ord. 2016-04, passed 8-22-2016)
§ 154.062 PLATTED AND UNPLATTED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any person desiring to improve property shall submit to the Building
Inspector a survey of the premises and information on the location and
dimensions of existing and proposed buildings, location of easements crossing
the property, encroachments and any other information as required by this
chapter.
   (B)   All buildings shall be placed so that they will not obstruct future
streets which may be constructed by the City.
   (C)   Except where sanitary sewer has previously been provided to the lot, a
lot of record existing upon the effective date of this chapter in a residential
district, which does not meet the requirements of this chapter as to area or
width may be utilized for single-family detached dwelling purposes; provided,
the measurements of the area or width are within 60% of the requirements of
this chapter.
   (D)   Frontage required. No building permit shall be issued for a structure
on a lot that does not have frontage on a publicly dedicated and opened right-
of-way.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 4, sub. 3; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-22-2023, § 3) (Ord.
passed 3-20-2002, § 4, sub. 3)
§ 154.063 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, USES AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   An accessory building shall be considered an integral part of the
principal building if it is connected directly to the principal building or
connected by a covered passageway.
   (B)   Except for farm buildings, and buildings in the commercial, industrial
and NRSF districts, no accessory building shall be erected or located within a
side or front yard.
   (C)   There shall be no more than two detached accessory buildings on any
residential zoned lot. The area of all detached accessory structures shall not
exceed 1,400 square feet and no one structure shall exceed 1,000 square feet.
Additional structures and area may be allowed in the NRSF and LDSF Districts as
a conditional use subject to the criteria in division (G) below.
   (D)   No accessory building shall be taller than the primary building.
Taller buildings may be allowed in the NRSF and LDSF Districts as a conditional
use subject to the criteria in division (G) below.
   (E)   All accessory buildings must use the same building materials as the
principle building, except when their floor area is less than 200 square feet.
Other materials may be allowed in the NRSF and LDSF Districts as a conditional
use subject to the criteria in division (G) below.
   (F)   Satellite dishes, television receiving antennas and radio receiving
antennas shall be a permitted accessory use within all zoning districts;
provided that, they meet the following conditions.
      (1)   Maximum height. The dish or antenna shall not exceed 15 feet in
height.
      (2)   Roof line. The dish or antenna shall not exceed 20 feet above the
roof line.
      (3)   Setbacks. No dish or antenna shall be located within the required
front yard setback or required side yard setback abutting a street.
      (4)   Ground-mounted dishes and antennas. Ground-mounted satellite
dishes, television antennas or radio antennas shall be set back from all
adjoining lots a distance equivalent to the height of the structure. The
structures shall be located ten feet or more from any other building or
structure and shall not be located within a utility easement.
      (5)   Roof mount. When a satellite dish, television antenna or radio
antenna is located on the roof of a building, the applicant shall furnish the
City’s Building Official with building plans and structural components of the
satellite dish, television antenna or radio antenna displaying the means of
securing the structure to the roof of a building. The Building Official must
approve the building plans.
      (6)   Lightning protection. Each satellite dish, television antenna or
radio antenna shall be grounded to protect against natural lightning strikes in
conformance with the National Electrical Code.
      (7)   Conditional use. Satellite dishes, television antennas or radio
antennas which exceed height limitations specified herein may be allowed by
conditional use permit.
   (G)   The following criteria shall be used to evaluate applications for
conditional use permits for accessory structures in residential districts.
Additionally, conditional use permits shall be processed and evaluated
according to the procedures listed in §§
154.020 through
154.027 of this chapter.
      (1)   The accessory structure shall be architecturally compatible with
the principle building and neighborhood setting. Elements to be considered and/
or required for attaining compatibility may include, but are not limited to,
the following:
         (a)   Depth of eave overhangs;
         (b)   Use of soffits and fascia material;
         (c)   Color(s);
         (d)   Roofing material that matches the principal structure;
         (e)   Use of trim, wainscoting, windows and lighting;
         (f)   Siding that matches the principal structure; and
         (g)   Roof pitch.
      (2)   Visibility of the structure shall be minimized as viewed from
adjacent lots and rights-of-way. Through the use of topography, existing
vegetation and/or proposed landscaping, the structure is adequately screened
from adjacent lots and rights-of-way.
      (3)   Garage door openings are placed so as to reduce their visibility
from adjacent lots and rights-of-way.
      (4)   The structure shall be designed and placed on the site so as to
minimize the perceived scale or size difference between the accessory structure
and the primary structure and/or structures on adjacent parcels.
      (5)   Proposed grading and drainage plans are approved by the City
Engineer.
      (6)   A balance is maintained through the size and scale of the proposed
structure in relationship to all existing accessory and primary structures on
the lot and within the neighborhood setting.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 4, sub. 4)
§ 154.064 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   The following standards shall apply to this use.
   (A)   No more than 25% of the total floor area of the dwelling shall be used
for the home occupation.
   (B)   No articles for sale shall be displayed so as to be visible from any
street, nor shall any outside storage of materials or equipment be permitted.
   (C)   The occupation is to be conducted solely by members of the household
residing on the premises.
   (D)   No sign shall be allowed other than one non-illuminated name plate not
to exceed four square feet in area.
   (E)   The home occupation, if it involves visitation by clients on the
premises, shall provide one off-street parking space, in addition to the
parking spaces required for the residents of the dwelling.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 4, sub. 5)
§ 154.065 DRAINAGE PLANS.
   In the case of all developments involving multi-family dwellings, commercial
uses and industrial uses drainage plans shall be prepared and submitted to the
City for approval.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 4, sub. 6)
§ 154.066 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The following building height regulations shall apply in residential,
commercial and industrial districts.
   (A)   No structure in any district shall exceed three stories or 35 feet,
whichever is less, unless a conditional use permit is authorized in the
district to allow taller buildings.
   (B)   The building height limits do not apply to chimneys or flues, church
spires, belfries, cupolas and domes which do not contain usable space, elevator
penthouses, flag poles, poles, cooling towers, towers and other structures for
essential services, and wind energy conversion system towers, other structures
for essential services, radio and television antennas not exceeding 20 feet
above the roof, monuments, parapet walls extending not more than three feet
above the limiting height of the building, necessary mechanical and electrical
appurtenances and farm buildings.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 4, sub. 7)
§ 154.067 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All applications for a building permit in all zoning districts shall
be accompanied by a site plan drawn to scale indicating the location of off-
street parking and loading spaces in compliance with the requirements in this
section.
   (B)   Each parking space shall be no less than nine feet wide and 20 feet in
length, exclusive of access aisles. All driveways, parking and vehicle
circulation areas must have a surface of asphalt, concrete or other equivalent
material approved by the City Engineer, and shall be graded to drain.
   (C)   The following minimum number of off-street parking spaces shall be
provided:
      (1)   Parking requirements in residential districts:
         (a)   Single and two-family dwelling units: two spaces per unit within
a garage that is a minimum of 440 square feet in area;
         (b)   Elderly housing: 0.75 spaces per efficiency or one bedroom unit;
1.5 spaces per two bedroom unit; two spaces per three-bedroom unit;
         (c)   Townhouse units: two spaces per unit within a garage that is a
minimum of 440 square feet in area. Where there are more than six townhouse
units there shall be a minimum of 0.25 spaces per unit for guest parking; and
         (d)   Multi-family dwellings in the R-4 District: two spaces per unit
with one space being provided within a garage.
      (2)   Theaters, churches or places of assembly: one space per every five
seats, or as needed;
      (3)   Restaurants, bars and the like: one space for each 100 square feet
of gross floor area;
      (4)   Service commercial shops, retail stores, and health clubs:
         (a)   A minimum of one space for every 300 square feet of floor area
with a maximum of one space for every 200 square feet for retail and multi-
tenant commercial structures; and
         (b)   One space for every 300 square feet for professional offices,
medical offices, professional services, and health clubs.
      (5)   Motels, hotels: one space per sleeping unit for ten or less units
with 1.25 spaces for every unit over ten, plus required spaces for banquet
rooms, meeting rooms, restaurants and retail shops;
      (6)   Industrial/manufacturing establishments: one space for every 750
square feet of floor area;
      (7)   Wholesale, warehouses: one space per every 1,000 square feet of
warehouse/floor area, but no less than four;
      (8)   Day care centers: one space for every eight children;
      (9)   Funeral home: one space for every 60 square feet of public
gathering space;
      (10)   Bowling alley: five spaces for every lane;
      (11)   Golf course: nine spaces per hole;
      (12)   Uses not mentioned: the number of parking/loading spaces shall be
determined by the City based upon the best information available;
      (13)   Shared or joint use of required parking spaces between uses on
different lots within 300 feet of each other may be permitted by the City by an
interim use permit if the owners of the property agree to the sharing of spaces
and it is demonstrated that the spaces will not be used by the two different
uses at the same time;
      (14)   Off-street loading: one off-street loading space shall be provided
and maintained on the same lot for each commercial and industrial use requiring
regular delivery of goods; and
      (15)   Design and maintenance of off-street parking, dock and traffic
circulation areas shall be in accordance with City requirements. All such areas
shall have an impervious surface, and shall be graded to drain. Exceptions to
this requirement (impervious surface) will be considered based upon anticipated
traffic usage and on-site runoff controls.
   (D)   Parking and access in residential districts.
      (1)   All vehicles must be parked in driveways, garages or on approved
parking surfaces. No vehicles may be parked on lawn areas, even if fenced.
      (2)   All lots in residential districts are permitted one driveway access
to a public street.
      (3)   All property access shall be via a permitted driveway.
      (4)   Driveway surfaces shall be constructed of asphalt, concrete or
pavers.
      (5)   The construction, operation or maintaining a parking area, either
paved or unpaved, in the front yard of any lot is prohibited in any area zoned
for residential use unless it is part of a designated, approved driveway.
      (6)   Use of a vacant lot for parking in an area zoned for a residential
use is prohibited.
      (7)   Driveways in any area zoned for residential use shall not exceed 24
feet within the right-of-way up to the front property line.
      (8)   Driveways shall not exceed the width of the garage they access by
more than ten feet in any direction.
      (9)   The side and rear yard of any lot may only be used for the parking
of an automobile, truck, trailer, tractor, recreational vehicle, camper, travel
trailer, camper top, tent, wagon, boat, boat trailer or motor home when on an
approved and permitted parking surface.
      (10)   Parking areas may be permitted in the side and rear yards;
provided, the areas are surfaced in the same manner as required for a driveway.
Parking areas in the rear yard may be also surfaced with gravel. All parking
areas shall be accessed by the approved driveway and shall meet the setbacks
for driveways from the side yard and structural rear yard setbacks.
      (11)   All driveways and parking areas are subject to impervious surface
and lot coverage standards in the zoning district.
      (12)   No driveway or parking area shall be located within three feet of
any side lot line or shall be placed within a drainage and utility easement.
      (13)   All parking or storage not conforming to these requirements shall
be considered outdoor storage.
      (14)   Driveways shall not have a slope greater than 10%.
      (15)   Parking lots and access drives for multi-family housing shall
conform to the same standards as for parking lots in commercial districts.
      (16)   An administrative permit shall be required for any driveway or
parking area installation or modification.
   (E)   Parking and access for commercial, industrial and institution uses.
      (1)   Except in the B-1 District, driveways and parking areas in
commercial and industrial districts shall maintain a five-foot setback to all
property lines.
      (2)   All property access shall be via an approved driveway.
      (3)   Driveways shall meet the standards of §
154.071(B)(6) of this chapter.
      (4)   Required parking areas are intended for the accessory parking for
the site. All other utilization of the areas shall be considered outdoor
storage.
      (5)   No parking shall be permitted in landscaped areas or other areas
not intended for parking.
      (6)   Multiple driveway accesses to a single property may be permitted by
the City Engineer in cases where the driveways are more than 100 feet apart and
do not interfere with public safety.
   (F)   Parking requirements in the B-1 and HSD Districts:
      (1)   Minimum required parking stalls are waived for commercial uses in
the B-1 and HSD Districts.
      (2)   Residential parking is required at one stall per bedroom in the B-
1A District.
      (3)   Residential parking is required at 1.75 stalls per unit or one
stall per bedroom, whichever is greater.
      (4)   Residential uses in the HSD District shall provide parking in the
manner required by §
154.067(C)(1).
      (5)   Garages are not required in the B-1 District.
   (G)   Drive through lanes shall have stacking spaces in the following
amounts:
      (1)   Restaurant/coffee shop: eight stacking spaces from entry to pick-up
window.
      (2)   Bank/pharmacy: three stacking spaces per teller/ATM or pick-up
window.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 4, sub. 8; Ord. 2016-09, passed 12-19-2016; Ord.
2023-03, passed 5-22-2023, §§ 4 - 6; Ord. 2024-05, passed 11-25-2024, §§ 1 - 3)
§ 154.068 INGRESS AND EGRESS.
   All lots shall front on and have ingress and egress by means of a public
right-of-way.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 4, sub. 9)
§ 154.069 VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   In any residential district on any corner lot, no fence or accessory
structure or planting shall rise over two and one-half feet in height above the
level of the public sidewalk within 20 feet of any corner, so as to interfere
with traffic visibility across the corner. No fence or wall or shrub planting
of more than two and one-half feet in height above the level of the public
sidewalk shall be erected on any interior lot within ten feet of the front
property line where it will interfere with traffic visibility from a driveway.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 4, sub. 10)
§ 154.070 ACCESSORY SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Solar energy systems shall be a permitted accessory use in all zoning
districts, provided that the system is in compliance with all applicable zoning
regulations and building codes related to accessory uses.
   (B)   The use of solar energy systems is subject to the restraints of the
zoning regulations contained in this chapter and any existing vegetation.
   (C)   The effect of trees on the solar access of surrounding development
shall be minimized to the greatest possible extent in selecting tree species
and locating trees on public lands and along roadways. Whenever possible, every
effort shall be made to avoid shading existing or proposed solar collectors.
   (D)   Reasonable care should be taken to protect the opportunity for the
utilization of solar energy systems at all locations available.
   (E)   The city shall take affirmative actions to the extent possible to
preserve solar access for all existing and future development.
   (F)   The city does encourage the use of private easements and restrictive
covenants as a means to protect access to sunlight.
   (G)   Ground mounted accessory solar energy systems may be permitted in the
B-2, LI, and GI districts when meeting the following standards:
      (1)   The system shall be screened from view from property in residential
districts.
      (2)   The total ground area covered by the system is limited to 300
square feet.
      (3)   All systems shall meet the required setbacks for accessory
structures and are not permitted in the front yard.
      (4)   The maximum height permitted is 15 feet at full tilt.
      (5)   The collector surface and any foundation, compacted soil, or other
component of the solar installation that rests on the ground is considered
impervious surface.
      (6)   A system may be placed in the front yard meeting half the required
setback for the principal structure when in receipt of a conditional use
permit.
      (7)   A system may exceed 300 square feet when in receipt of a
conditional use permit provided the system does not exceed the area of 25% of
the principal structure's building footprint. Square footage is measured by the
total area of the solar collector surface(s).
      (8)   Solar carports exceeding 300 square feet in area may be permitted
via a conditional use permit in the B-2, LI, and GI Districts subject to the
following standards:
         (a)   The solar carport shall be located within the designated
accessory parking area and cover usable parking spaces.
         (b)   The carport may be up to 21 feet in height.
         (c)   In the B-2 District, the carport shall not exceed 25% of the
size of the principal structure.
         (d)   In the LI and GI Districts, the carport shall not exceed 40% of
the size of the principal structure.
   (H)   Building mounted accessory solar energy systems are permitted in all
districts in the following manner:
      (1)   All systems shall be flush mounted on peaked roofs.
      (2)   A maximum of 85% of the roof may be covered by systems unless
architecturally integrated into features of the building.
      (3)   No system shall extend beyond the edge of the roof.
      (4)   All systems shall meet height regulations in the district.
      (5)   No system shall extend beyond 12 feet from the roof at maximum tilt
on a flat roof. Mechanical screening shall be required on street facing sides
of multi-family, commercial, and industrial buildings.
      (6)   No residential accessory structure within the principal structure
setback shall be permitted to have a roof mounted solar energy system except
when in receipt of a conditional use permit.
   (I)   Principal use solar energy systems are not permitted.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 4, sub. 11; Ord. 2018-03, passed 9-10-2018, § 3; Ord.
2024-01, passed 8-26-2024, § 1)
§ 154.071 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS, BUILDING, SITE DESIGN, LANDSCAPING AND
SCREENING.
   (A)   Building performance standards.
      (1)   General building standards.
         (a)   Building design and materials. Building materials shall be
attractive in appearance, of a durable finish and be of a quality that is
compatible and harmonious with adjacent structures. All buildings shall be of
good aesthetic and architectural quality, to ensure they will maintain and
enhance the property values of neighboring properties.
         (b)   Exterior material requirements.
            1.   Commercial, industrial and other non-residential buildings.
Face brick, masonry block, decorative or split face block, architectural steel
and metals, wood, stone, glass, stucco, EIFS, architectural concrete and pre-
cast panels shall be acceptable as the major exterior wall material when they
are incorporated into an overall design of the building. Unadorned smooth pre-
stressed concrete panels and/or non-decorative, smooth concrete block may be
used if architectural features are incorporated. All materials shall be color
impregnated, with the exception that architectural concrete pre-cast panel
systems may be painted. This division (A)(1)(b)1. shall also apply to all
remodeling, or expansion of existing buildings that require a building permit.
            2.   Residential buildings. Face brick, stone, cultured stone,
cementitious siding, vinyl siding, steel/metal siding, wood, stucco, synthetic
stucco and decorative or split face block.
               a.   Light gauge, unfinished sheet metal or unfinished metal
shall not be used as exterior materials. This restriction shall apply to all
principal structures, and to all accessory buildings. Roofs which are exposed
or an integral part of the building aesthetics shall be constructed only of
commercial grade asphalt shingles, wood shingles, standing seam metal, slate,
tile or copper. Flat roofs which are generally parallel with the first floor
elevation are not subject to these material limitations.
               b.   All building and roofing materials shall meet current
accepted industry standards and tolerances, and shall be subject to review and
approval by the City Engineer and Building Official for quality, durability and
aesthetic appeal. For all new buildings and building exterior renovations, the
applicant shall submit to the City product samples, building elevations and
associated drawings which illustrate the construction techniques to be used in
the installation of the materials. Building and roofing materials not
specifically approved in this subchapter may be allowed by a conditional use
permit only after it is demonstrated that the proposed material is equal to or
better than approved materials. The long-range maintenance of the proposed
material shall be incorporated as a condition of the approval.
      (2)   Retaining walls. Garages, accessory structures, screen walls and
exposed area of retaining walls shall generally be of a similar type, quality
and appearance as the principal structure; or shall otherwise enhance the
appearance of the site/building.
      (3)   Building mechanical screening.
         (a)   The ground level view of all rooftop equipment and related
piping, ducting, electrical and mechanical utilities shall be painted to match
the building, designed to be compatible with the architectural treatment of the
principal structure, or screened by the use of parapet walls. Wood fencing
shall not be used for screening the equipment.
         (b)   Ground mechanical equipment shall be screened from contiguous
properties and adjacent streets by landscaping, or a screen wall shall be
provided to be compatible with the architectural treatment of the principal
structure.
      (4)   Lighting. Exterior site and building lighting shall utilize 90-
degree cutoff shielded fixtures to prevent ambient light pollution and light
and glare from spilling over to adjacent properties.
      (5)   Residential housing standards.
         (a)   Full basements are required on all residential structures.
         (b)   Single-family houses shall be a minimum of 22 feet in width.
         (c)   All single-family houses shall have a minimum foundation
footprint of 800 square feet (not including garages).
         (d)   All single-family houses shall have a front street facing
entrance. At least eight feet or 20% of the width of the front facing
structure, whichever is greater, shall be livable space and not garage.
         (e)   All residential dwellings, including manufactured homes, shall
have a foundation that conforms to the Building Code, as adopted by the City.
With the exception of manufactured homes in an approved manufactured housing
park, all residential dwelling units shall have a continuous permanent
perimeter foundation.
         (f)   Multiple dwelling units minimum sizes: multiple family dwelling
units shall have the following minimum floor areas per unit:
            1.   Efficiency units: 500 square feet;
            2.   One bedroom units: 700 square feet;
            3.   Two bedroom units: 800 square feet; and
            4.   Three or more bedroom: 880 square feet plus an additional 80
feet for each bedroom over three.
         (g)   Two-family and townhouse minimum sizes. Two-family and townhouse
dwelling units shall have a minimum floor area of 600 square feet first floor
above grade plus 100 additional square feet for each bedroom.
   (B)   Site design standards. To ensure that the development is appropriate
to a growing urbanized location, and to establish and maintain aesthetic
coherence among developments, and to minimize impairment of water bodies due to
storm water runoff, City staff will review site plans to assure that:
      (1)   Major buildings and entrances are oriented toward perimeter streets
for visibility and access;
      (2)   Internal circulation within the site is designed to allow ease of
access among buildings by vehicles and pedestrians;
      (3)   Service areas are oriented away from perimeter streets;
      (4)   On-site storm water treatment and retention are provided as
required by the City Engineer and may be utilized as part of the landscape
plan;
      (5)   Access/egress locations are as approved by the City Engineer;
      (6)   Driveway widths are no wider than 32 feet, and shall include a
concrete apron to a minimum of five feet behind the curb line or edge of
pavement;
      (7)   Signage is in accordance with the provisions of §§
154.160 through
154.170 of this chapter; and
      (8)   Outside storage of materials, equipment, unused vehicles, truck
trailers or products is not permitted unless authorized by conditional use
permit.
   (C)   General landscaping standards.
      (1)   Maintenance.
         (a)   All yards, open spaces and landscaped areas on developed or
undeveloped lots or parcels must be kept free from accumulations of garbage,
trash, refuse, debris and other unsightly or nuisance creating materials.
         (b)   All landscaping shall be continually maintained by the owner or
other person responsible for maintenance of the premises, and all planting
areas shall be kept free of weeds and debris. Turf shall be mowed and
maintained at a length not exceeding six inches.
         (c)   All required landscaping shall be replaced if the planting dies
or is otherwise removed.
         (d)   Boulevard areas adjacent to streets and alleys shall be
maintained by the adjacent property owner, to the curb line or edge of roadway.
         (e)   The landscape plan and its maintenance plan shall be part of the
certificate of occupancy. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued without
approval of a landscape plan. In the event that weather conditions prohibit the
installation of the landscaping, a deposit or irrevocable letter of credit, in
the amount to be determined by the City Engineer, shall be submitted to the
City as security for completion of the improvements. Following completion of
the landscaping improvements, the City shall release the deposit less an
administrative fee reflecting the City’s cost related to monitoring and
completion of the improvements. The City reserves the right to expend the
deposited funds to ensure completion of the improvements. Failure to implement
the approved landscape plan within six months of the issuance of a certificate
of occupancy shall be cause for revocation of the certificate of occupancy.
      (2)   General requirements.
         (a)   All exposed ground areas on a lot or parcel surrounding a
principal or accessory structure that are not devoted to drives, sidewalks,
patios and parking lots shall be covered with sod, or other approved ground
cover, or other landscape materials as required or allowed herein. Ground cover
exceptions may be permitted in an approved site plan for:
            1.   Seeding of future expansion areas as shown on approved site
plans;
            2.   Undisturbed areas containing existing viable natural
vegetation that can be maintained free of foreign and noxious plant material;
and
            3.   Planting beds shall be mulched with four inches of hardwood
mulch.
         (b)   The required percentage total lot area that must be landscaped
is:
            1.   Industrial districts: 15%;
            2.   B-2 Commercial District: 10%;
            3.   Residential districts (other than R-1): 25%; and
            4.   Variation from these percentages will be considered in
conjunction with review of the overall site plan, where the variations do not
detract from the appearance of the site and conformance with the objectives of
this section.
         (c)   Where landscaping is proposed within a public right-of-way, or
drainage and/or utility easement, then a conditional use permit shall be
secured which sets forth the terms and conditions for removal and replacement
of the landscaping if work is necessary within the easement area.
      (3)   Design standards. Landscaping plans described above shall be
prepared based on the following design standards. The evaluation and approval
of landscape plans shall also be based on these design standards.
         (a)   The scale and nature of landscaping materials shall be
appropriate to the size of the structures. Large scaled buildings for example
shall generally be complemented by larger scaled plants. Landscaping of larger
areas, such as required yards, shall be accomplished by both horizontal
landscaping elements, such as planting beds, and vertical landscaping elements,
such as trees, berms and fences.
         (b)   Plant material shall be selected for its form, texture, color
and concern for its ultimate growth.
         (c)   The landscape plan shall include a mix of deciduous and
coniferous trees, shrubs flowers, berms and ground covers as deemed appropriate
to a complete quality landscape treatment of the site.
         (d)   Plant material shall be placed intermittently against long
expanses of building walls, fences and other barriers to create a softening
effect.
         (e)   Detention/retention basins and ponds shall be landscaped. The
landscaping shall include shade and ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubbery,
hedges and/or other planting materials.
      (4)   Slopes and berms.
         (a)   Final slope grades with a ratio of 3:1 or steeper will not be
permitted without special landscaping treatment such as terracing, retaining
walls or reinforced ground covers. All berms shall be planted with sod or other
ground cover to prevent erosion.
         (b)   Earthen berms and existing topography shall be incorporated into
the landscape treatment of a site, particularly when combined with plant
material to facilitate screening from adjacent residential or other uses.
         (c)   Berms shall be designed to allow for maintenance, mowing and
adequate drainage.
         (d)   The elevation and horizontal ground location of any berms shall
be varied in order to mimic a natural topographical feature.
      (5)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking areas that contain 30 or
more stalls shall provide interior landscaping as follows.
         (a)   The interior landscaping shall constitute at least 5% of the
area of the parking lot. Area devoted to perimeter landscaping is not
considered as any part of interior landscaping.
         (b)   The minimum width of landscape islands is eight feet.
         (c)   Islands shall be bounded by concrete curbing, unless islands are
used as part of a low impact design storm water management system.
         (d)   Islands shall be planted with trees and sod or other approved
ground cover.
      (6)   Buffering and screening requirements.
         (a)   Off-street parking areas with four or more stalls and truck
dock/delivery areas, shall be buffered by perimeter landscaping. The
landscaping shall consist of a combination of ground cover, trees, shrubs and/
or appropriate screening devices. The screening shall be at least 80% opaque
within two years and not less than six feet in height.
         (b)   Trees, hedges or other vegetative materials shall provide at
least 50% screening capacity throughout the year to a height of at least eight
feet.
         (c)   When adjacent to a residential area, all off-street parking
areas with four or more stalls shall be screened from all sides adjacent to the
residential property. The screening shall be at least 80% opaque within two
years and not less than six feet in height.
         (d)   Where a development is adjacent to a residential area, there
shall be a landscaped protective strip established as a buffer zone in the yard
that is adjacent to the residential area.
         (e)   Every off-street loading area visible from a residential area,
and visible from any public street, shall be screened.
         (f)   To the extent possible, all trash handling, recyclable material
containers and equipment, except those containers used on a temporary basis for
a construction or disposal activity, shall be screened (to a sufficient height)
from eye-level view by all adjoining properties and all streets. Refuse or
recyclable material containers shall be located within rear or interior side
yards. No refuse or recyclable material containers shall be located within any
front or corner side yard.
         (g)   Screening of outdoor storage areas is required. When used, walls
or fences must provide for full visual screening of storage areas, as viewed
from residential districts. Outdoor storage areas are required to have a
conditional use permit.
         (h)   The buffer zone shall contain no structures and shall not be
used for off-street loading or outdoor storage, but may be used for parking in
accordance with the parking setback and screening requirements of this section,
and the zoning district.
      (7)   Fences, walls and landscape screens/buffers.
         (a)   Screens/buffers shall not extend within 15 feet of any street or
driveway. The screening shall be placed along property lines where possible.
         (b)   The outside base of a wall or fence shall be landscaped if the
wall or fence fronts on a public street or is adjacent to a residential area.
         (c)   No fence, wall, landscape screen or other screening device shall
be permitted to encroach on any public right-of-way or infringe on any vision
triangle, except with prior approval of the City Engineer.
         (d)   The materials used for constructing the wall or fence shall be
specified in the site plan and shall be subject to approval by the City
Council.
         (e)   A wall, fence or vegetative screening may occupy part of the
required yard; but no hedge or berm, located in the front yard, shall be more
than two and one-half feet in height.
         (f)   See also §
154.073 of this chapter for additional fencing requirements.
      (8)   Maintenance requirements.
         (a)   The yard area in front of fences and walls shall be trimmed and
maintained in a neat and attractive manner.
         (b)   Repairs to damaged areas of walls or fences shall be made within
30 days of sustaining the damage.
         (c)   Areas left in a natural state and vegetative screening area
shall be properly maintained in an attractive and well kept condition.
         (d)   Diseased, dying or dead vegetative screening elements shall be
removed and then replaced, at a minimum, with healthy plants of the same size
required when first planted.
      (9)   Minimum plant size requirements. All plants must at least equal the
following minimum size:
 
                               Potted/Bare Root or Balled and Burlapped
Evergreen trees                6 feet height
Low shrubs                     24 - 30 inches height
Ornamental trees               1-1/2 inch diameter trunk
Shade trees                    2-1/2 inch diameter trunk
Spreading evergreens           18 - 24 inches height
Tall shrubs and hedge material 3 - 4 feet height
 
      (10)   Approved plants. Approved plant material for boulevards/parkways/
traffic islands and suggested plant material for screening and individual
yards.
         (a)   Deciduous trees.
Common Name Botanical Name Comments
Common Name             Botanical Name             Comments
Autumn Blaze White Ash  Fraxinus Americana ‘AutumPurple fall color, oval
                        Blaze’                   form
Black Cherry            Prunus serotina            Fragrant white flowers,
                                                   yellow-orange fall color
Emerald Queen Norway    Acer platanoides ‘EmeraldYellow fall color, fast
Maple                   Queen’                   growth, attractive form
Greenspire Linden       Tilia americana ‘RedmondBright yellow fall color,
                                                   pyramidal form
                                                   Large heart-shaped
Northern Catalpa        Catalpa speciosa           foliage, yellow fall
                                                   color, fast growth, showy
                                                   white flowers
                                                   Pyramidal form, leaves
Northern Red Oak        Quercus palustris          persist through winter,
                                                   red fall color
                                                   Rounded open form, drought
Pin Oak                 Quercus macrocarpa         tolerant, leaves persist
                                                   through winter
                                                   Red fall color, broad
Red Sunset Maple        Acer rubrum ‘Franksred’columnar form showy red
                                                   flowers
                                                   Red fall color, dark
Redmond Linden          Quercus rubra              glossy green leaves,
                                                   fastest oak grower
                                                   Blush gray branches,
River Birch (clump)     Betula nigra               winter interest, orange-
                                                   red fall color
                        Acer platanoides ‘Royal  Rich purple foliage all
Royal Red Maple         Red’                     summer, straight trunk,
                                                   dense shade
Swamp White Oak Bur Oak Quercus bicolor            Yellow fall color, dark
                                                   green leaves
 
         (b)   Coniferous trees.
 
Common Name        Botanical Name       Comments
Austrian Pine      Pinus nigra          Dark green needles, drought and cold
                                        tolerant, vigorous
Black Hills Spruce Picea glauca densata Strong pyramidal form evergreen,
                                        tolerant of light shade
Eastern Redcedar   Juniperus virginiana Densely pyramidal evergreen, tolerant
                                        poor conditions
Norway Spruce      Picea abies          Largest and fastest growing evergreen
 
         (c)   Ornamental trees.
Common Name Botanical Name Comments
Common Name            Botanical Name              Comments
American Plum          Prunus Americana            Yellow-red fruit, yellow
                                                   fall color
Amur Chokecherry       Prunus maacke               White flowers, golden bark,
                                                   winter interest
Autumn Brilliance      Amelanchier x grandiflora   Bright red-orange fall
Serviceberry           ‘Autumn Brilliance’     color, white fragrant
                                                   flowers, red fruit
                                                   Bright red flowers, glossy
Crimson Cloud Hawthorn Crateagus laevigata         red fruit persists into
                                                   winter, thornless
                                                   Purplish fall color, white
Gray Dogwood           Cornus racemosa             flower and fruit, gray bark,
                                                   winter interest
                       Syringa reticulate ‘Ivory Creamy white fragrant
Ivory Silk Lilac       Silk’                     flowers, dense deep green
                                                   foliage
                                                   Fragrant pink flowers,
Newport Plum           Prunus cerasifera ‘Newportreddish purple foliage with
                                                   red tips
Pagoda Dogwood         Cornus alternifolia         Yellow-red fall color, dark
                                                   green summer foliage
 
      (d)   Deciduous shrubs.
Common Name Botanical Name Comments
Common Name            Botanical Name              Comments
American Hazelnut      Corylus americana           Mounded form, adaptable,
                                                   edible nuts
Crimson Pygmy Barberry Berberis thunbergii         Orange-red fall color, deep
                       ‘Crimson Pygmy’         red foliage, compact habit
Dwarf Burning Bush     Euonymus alatus ‘compactusBushy and compact form,
                                                   brilliant scarlet fall color
Dwarf European         Viburnum opulus ‘Nanum’ White fragrant flowers, fast
Cranberrybush                                      growth
                       Phladelphus coronarus       Compact habit, white
Golden Mockorange      ‘Aureus’                flowers, showy scarlet
                                                   fruits
Kalmanum St. Johnswort Hypericum kalmanum          Mounded form, yellow
                                                   flowers, blue-green foliage
Miniature snowflake    Phladelphus ‘Miniature    Prolific white flowers,
Mockorange             Snowflake’                fragrant, dwarf habit
                       Magnolius kobus stellata    Dark green foliage, white
Star Magnolia          ‘Royal Star’            flowers, yellow-bronze fall
                                                   color
 
         (e)   Coniferous shrubs.
 
Common Name           Botanical Name               Comments
Arcadia Juniper       Juniperus Sabina ‘CompactaRich green foliage, semi-
                                                   spreading form
Birds Nest Spruce     Picea abies “Nidiforms’  Dwarf spruce, hardy, dense
                                                   foliage
Broadmoor Juniper     Juniperus Sabina ‘BroadmoorDense mound form, rich green
                                                   foliage
                                                   Low densely branched
Russian Cypress       Microbiota decussate         evergreen, bronze winter
                                                   color
Savin Juniper         Juniperus Sabina             Blue-green foliage, compact
                                                   growth habit
Taunton Spreading Yew Taxus x media ‘Taunton’  Good winter hardiness
 
         (f)   Perennials and ground covers.
Common Name Botanical Name
Common Name                 Botanical Name
Autumn Joy Sedum            Sedum ‘Autumn Joy’
Bleeding Heart              Dicentra spectablis
Blue Fescue                 Festuca glauca
Creeping Phlox              Phlox subulata
Daffodil                    Narcissus sp
Liatris                     Liatris pycnostachya
Lupine                      Lupinus sp.
Petite Delight Bee Balm     Monarda ‘Petite Delight’
Petite Wonder Bee Balm      Monarda ‘Petite Wonder’
Poppy                       Papaver sp
Purple Coneflower           Echinacea angustfolia
Rugosa Rose                 Rosa rugosa sp.
Sherwood Gladiator Daylilly Hemerocallis ‘Sherwood Gladiator’
Stello d’Oro Daylilly     Hemerocallis ‘Stello d’Oro’
Switchgrass                 Panicum virgatum
Yarrow                      Achillea millefolium
 
   (D)   Conformance and enforcement; new construction.
      (1)   (a)   Where compliance is not possible due to site conditions, then
compliance shall be achieved by a conditional use permit, which establishes the
achievable level of and schedule for compliance, and the terms and conditions
related thereto.
         (b)   Non-compliance shall exist where compliance is not achieved and
a conditional use permit has not been secured.
         (c)   Non-compliance shall also exist where the terms and conditions
of a conditional use permit are violated.
         (d)   Non-compliance shall be subject to the provisions of §
154.999 of this chapter.
      (2)   (a)   No variances shall be granted with respect to the
requirements set forth herein. Exceptions shall be made only via a conditional
use permit. Requests for a conditional use permit shall not be based solely
upon financial considerations, but shall only be based primarily upon the
physical inability to achieve conformance with the requirements of this chapter
at the subject site.
         (b)   The Planning Commission shall determine whether a conditional
use permit may be issued or denied, and shall forward its recommendation to the
City Council for action.
   (E)   Conformance and enforcement; existing sites.
      (1)   It is the City’s intention to secure general compliance with the
performance standards set forth herein, to the extent conformance is
achievable. A schedule for evaluation of existing sites will be established by
the City Council. Upon site review, and where compliance is lacking, then a
conditional use permit will be negotiated with the property owner. The
conditional use permit shall establish the level of compliance to be achieved
and the schedule for completion of compliance related activities.
      (2)   Non-compliance shall exist where compliance is not achieved, and a
conditional use permit has not been secured, or when the property owner does
not cooperate as set forth in division (E)(1) above. Non-compliance shall be
subject to the provisions of §
154.999 of this chapter.
      (3)   No variances shall be granted with respect to the requirements set
forth herein. Exceptions shall be made only via a conditional use permit.
Requests for a conditional use permit shall not be based solely upon financial
considerations, but shall be based primarily upon the physical inability to
achieve conformance with the requirements of this chapter at the subject site.
The Planning Commission shall determine whether a conditional use permit may be
issued or denied, and shall forward its recommendation to the City Council for
action.
   (F)   Conditional use permits. Conditional use permits, as referenced
herein, shall apply only to this section.
   (G)   Conformance and enforcement, City Council. The provisions of this
section shall be enforced as directed by the City Council.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 4, sub. 12; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-22-2023, § 7)
§ 154.072 WATER CONSUMPTION.
   No use shall be allowed in the City that consumes more than 1,300 gallons of
water per acre per day unless specifically authorized by the City Council.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 4, sub. 13)
§ 154.073 FENCES.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   Zoning permit. A permit shall be required for all fences, three
feet to six feet in height and located within ten feet from a property/boundary
line.
      (2)   Building permit. A building permit shall be required for all fences
over six feet in height or as otherwise may be stated in the Building Code.
      (3)   Exceptions. Subject to the other provisions stated within this
section, the following shall not require a permit:
         (a)   Any fence less than three feet in height;
         (b)   Any maintenance, upkeep and/or repair of fences;
         (c)   Any underground electric pet fencing;
         (d)   Permitted animal enclosures meeting required setbacks;
         (e)   Any patio, trash container or utility screen located at least
five feet from a property line and with a length of less than 32 feet;
         (f)   Any permanent garden or landscape fencing located at least five
feet from the property line. However, the garden and landscape fencing must be
less than three feet in height and located within the parameters of the
distinct garden and/or landscaping area;
         (g)   Any temporary/portable snow fencing;
         (h)   Any temporary/portable construction/safety fencing related to a
permitted project;
         (i)   Any temporary/portable soil erosion fencing. However, all
erosion fencing associated with a construction project shall be completely
removed upon issuance of a final certificate of occupancy; and
         (j)   Any temporary/portable special event fencing located within non-
residential districts. Special event fencing located within residential
districts may require an interim use permit as determined by the City.
   (B)   Application requirements and site inspections.
      (1)   All fence permit applications shall include a certificate of survey
and/or site map, drawn to scale, showing/labeling the following:
         (a)   Property address and/or legal description (if platted);
         (b)   Fronting street(s) and street names;
         (c)   Property lines and property line dimensions;
         (d)   Proposed fence type;
         (e)   Proposed location of the fence and distance from property lines;
and
         (f)   Existing objects and/or structures located near the proposed
fence.
      (2)   Before a site inspection is conducted by the designated City
official, the following items shall be located on site and clearly marked with
paint, flags, stakes and/or laths:
         (a)   Property corners. The Zoning Administrator may require the owner
of the property upon which a fence exists, or any applicant wishing to
construct a fence, to establish the boundary lines of the property by a survey
thereof to be made by any licensed land surveyor;
         (b)   Boundary lines; and
         (c)   Proposed fence location.
   (C)   Location.
      (1)   Placing of fences in easements.
         (a)   Private fences shall not extend into any public easement, except
by means of an encroachment agreement approved by the City. The approval or
denial of such an agreement shall be solely within the discretion of the Zoning
Administrator and City Engineer. The encroachment agreement shall also be
recorded with the County Recorder’s office.
         (b)   The City or any utility company having authority to use the
easement shall not be liable for repair or replacement of fences in the event
that they are moved, damaged or destroyed by virtue of the lawful use of the
easement.
         (c)   Any fence placed in a drainage easement shall not adversely
affect drainage or create debris buildup.
         (d)   All fence applicants and/or property owners are responsible for
verifying that no conflict exists with utilities prior to installation.
      (2)   Fence setbacks.
         (a)   Fences shall be placed on the boundary line between properties
or maintain a five-foot setback.
         (b)   When placing a fence on the property line, the property owner
wishing to build the fence shall provide an agreement, in writing, that
adjoining property adjoining agrees that the fence may be erected on the
division line of the respective properties.
         (c)   Private fences adjacent to wetlands shall be set back in
accordance with all applicable wetland buffer regulations.
   (D)   Height.
      (1)   Measurement. Height shall be measured from ground level elevation
to the top of the fence.
      (2)   Residential fences.
         (a)   Side and rear yards. Fences located within a side or rear yard
shall not exceed six feet in height.
         (b)   Yards adjacent to streets. Fences exceeding four feet in height
shall not be erected within a required front yard setback or side yard setback
adjacent to a street.
         (c)   Through lots. On through lots, fences six feet in height may be
permitted five feet from the right-of-way that the lot does not derive access
from provided no other lot on the block is permitted to access from the right-
of-way. Otherwise, the standards for front yards shall be met.
         (d)   Irregular lot. In the case of an irregular shaped lot/parcel,
the Zoning Administrator shall determine the most appropriate fence height and
type based on the requirements stated in this section.
      (3)   Non-residential fences. In business and industrial zones, fences
may not exceed seven feet in height above the ground level.
   (E)   Fence types.
      (1)   Residential fences. Residential fences constructed along a property
boundary line shall be sturdy fencing constructed of low maintenance materials
that are residential in nature, such as vinyl coated chainlink, steel,
aluminum, wrought iron, vinyl, composite, wood or other similar materials
determined acceptable by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Fencing materials. All fences must be constructed in a substantial,
workmanlike manner and of materials reasonably suited for the purpose for which
the fence is proposed to be used.
      (3)   Barbed wire fences. No barbed wire fences shall be allowed in the
residential zoning districts, unless the City Council has approved a site plan
which includes barbed wire fencing for security purposes. In the commercial and
industrial districts, the use of barbed wire is prohibited; except that, the
top one foot of any fence along side or rear lot lines in these zones may be
constructed of barbed wire. Barbed wire is also permitted for the top one foot
of fences in industrial zones when fronting a public street and placed no
closer than the parking setback. Barbed wire shall not be permitted adjacent to
any residential district.
      (4)   Razor wire and electric fences. All razor wire and electric fences
are prohibited.
      (5)   Swimming pool fences and barriers. Swimming pools or spas secured
with a code compliant safety cover as determined by the Building Official are
exempt from the following requirements.
         (a)   All permanent swimming pools, including inground pools and
aboveground pools with rigid walls, shall be completely surrounded by a fence
or wall not less than four feet in height, and with openings, holes or gaps no
greater than four inches in either vertical or horizontal direction. The fence
shall be of a type not readily climbed by children. A building or accessory
building may be used as part of the enclosure. An aboveground pool with a wall
greater than four feet in height does not require a fence if the wall cannot be
readily climbed by children and the pool can be secured while not in actual
use.
         (b)   All gates or doors to the enclosure shall be equipped with a
self-closing and self-latching device for keeping the gate or door securely
closed at all times when not in actual use and shall be provided with hardware
for permanent locking devices; except that, the door of any dwelling which
forms a part of the enclosure need not be so equipped. Pool gates shall be
locked when the pool is not in use.
   (F)   General regulations.
      (1)   No fence shall be installed so as to obstruct a required clear view
at street intersections.
      (2)   Fences shall be installed with the finished side facing neighboring
properties.
      (3)   All boundary fences shall be constructed so as to leave adequate
clearance between the ground level and the bottom of the fence in order that
the yard/landscaping lying directly under the fence can be easily trimmed and
maintained.
      (4)   Temporary/portable fencing shall be allowed without a permit as
follows:
         (a)   Snow fences for the purpose of controlling drifting snow;
provided, the fence is four feet in height or less, not within five feet of any
side or rear property line, or placed within the public right-of-way. The
fencing shall not be placed prior to November 1 and shall be removed by April
1;
         (b)   Erosion control fences are allowed without a permit in all
districts in conjunction with a permitted activity necessitating the fencing;
and
         (c)   Fencing of a temporary nature for the protection of excavation
and construction sites and/or for the protection of plants or trees during
excavation and construction may be allowed without a permit when associated
with permitted activities.
      (5)   The City is not liable for any damage caused to private fencing
while maintaining or clearing nearby public roads, trails, sidewalks or other
public infrastructure.
      (6)   It is the responsibility of all fence owners to keep both sides of
their fence(s) in good repair and appearance and not in a condition of
disrepair, danger or that constitutes a public or private nuisance. Any fence
shall be considered a public nuisance if it does not comply with the following.
         (a)   All fences shall comply with associated regulations relating to
nuisances and blight stated in this code.
         (b)   All fences shall be firmly fastened and anchored in order that
the fence is not leaning or otherwise in a stage of collapse.
         (c)   All fences shall be maintained in sound and good repair and free
from deterioration, loose or rotting pieces, or holes, breaks or gaps not
otherwise intended in the original design of the fence. All fences shall be
free from any defects or condition which makes the fence hazardous.
         (d)   All exterior wood surfaces of any fence, other than decay
resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements by paint or other
protective surface covering or treatment, which shall be maintained in good
repair to provide the intended protection from the elements.
         (e)   No fence section shall have peeling, cracked, chipped or
otherwise deteriorated surface finish.
   (G)   Special purpose fences. Fences for special purpose and fences
differing in construction, height or location may be permitted in any district,
only by issuance of a conditional use permit and upon evidence that the special
purpose fence is necessary to protect, buffer or improve the premises for which
the fence is intended.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 4, sub. 14; Ord. 2014-04, passed 6-23-2014)
§ 154.074 LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Low impact development (LID) is a comprehensive approach rather
than a technique. The idea behind LID is to develop a site so that post-
development runoff conditions mimic or imitate pre-settlement runoff. The
premises of LID is that storm water is an asset and necessary element in the
natural environment and it should not be managed for “disposal”. The approach
emphasizes the integration of site design and planning techniques in order to
design the built environment so that it remains a functioning part of an
ecosystem, rather than existing apart from it.
      (2)   Key principles of design include:
         (a)   Preserve open space and minimize land disturbance;
         (b)   Protect natural systems and processes (drainage ways,
vegetation, soils, sensitive areas);
         (c)   Re-examine the use and sizing of traditional site infrastructure
(lots, streets, curbs, gutters, sidewalks) and customize design to each site;
         (d)   Incorporate natural site elements (wetlands, stream corridors,
mature forests) as design elements; and
         (e)   Decentralize and micromanage storm water at its source.
   (B)   The City encourages innovative site design to reduce the environmental
impacts of development. Low impact development strategies include, but are not
limited to:
      (1)   Reduced street width;
      (2)   Use of pervious pavements;
      (3)   Use of bio-retention/rain water gardens and/or infiltration swales
within yards and along roads, parking lots and within parking lots;
      (4)   Amending/restoring soils to increase infiltration;
      (5)   Preserve existing vegetation and open space;
      (6)   Constructing wetlands for storm water treatment;
      (7)   Disconnecting impervious surfaces; and
      (8)   Installing green roofs.
   (C)   To encourage the use of these strategies, the City offers bonus
densities as negotiated through a PUD.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 4, sub. 15)
§ 154.075 LIMITED KEEPING OF CHICKENS.
   (A)   The limited keeping of chickens may be permitted as an accessory use
to a legally established single-family residence subject to the following:
      (1)   The property shall be occupied with a single-family home. The owner
of the chickens shall live in the dwelling on the property.
      (2)   No person shall keep more than five total hen chickens.
      (3)   No person shall keep roosters or adult male chickens.
      (4)   Chickens shall be kept within a separate enclosed accessory
building and fenced outdoor containment area subject to the following:
         (a)   The accessory building shall be less than 120 square feet in
size and not exceed six feet in height.
         (b)   The accessory building shall comply with all setbacks and other
standards for accessory buildings, unless otherwise stated herein.
         (c)   Any outdoor containment areas shall be screened from view from
all neighboring properties and rights-of-way. Outdoor containment areas shall
not exceed 20 feet per bird and shall not have a fenced enclosure greater than
six feet in height.
         (d)   Any accessory building or containment area shall be located in
the rear yard only and shall be at least 25 feet from any side or rear property
lines.
         (e)   Fencing used to contain chickens shall comply with applicable
conditions of the City Code.
         (f)   Chickens shall not be kept within the dwelling unit or garage.
         (g)   The accessory building and/or containment area shall be
maintained in good repair, in a clean and sanitary manner, free of vermin, and
free of objectionable odors.
         (h)   Chickens shall remain in the accessory building and/or
containment area at all times and shall not run at large.
         (i)   Chickens shall remain in the accessory building from sunset to
sunrise each day to prevent nuisance noise and the attraction of vermin and
predators.
         (j)   Accessory buildings for the purpose of this ordinance shall not
count towards the number of accessory building permitted or the size
limitations as stated in §
154.063.
         (k)   The slaughter of chickens on site is prohibited.
         (l)   The raising of chickens for breeding purposes is prohibited.
         (m)   The sale of eggs or other commercial activity on the premises is
prohibited.
         (n)   Feces and discarded feed shall be regularly collected and only
stored temporarily on site in a leak-proof container with a tight-fitting cover
to prevent nuisance odors and the attraction of vermin. Such waste shall not be
composted on site.
         (o)   Chicken feed shall be stored in leak-proof containers with a
tight-fitting cover to prevent attracting vermin.
   (B)   The keeping of farm animals other than chickens or in greater numbers
than permitted by division (A) above shall comply with all other requirements
of the City Code.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 8-12-2019, § 2)
§ 154.076 CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Minimum buffer requirements. Cannabis retailers, of any type, cannot
be located within 1,000 feet from any school or within 500 feet from any
attraction within a public park that is regularly used by minors, such as
playgrounds, athletic facilities, splash pads, and beaches. Pursuant to M.S. §
462.357, subd. 1e, nothing in this section shall prohibit an active cannabis
business or a cannabis business seeking registration from continuing operation
at the same site if a school or attraction within a public park that is
regularly used by minors moves within the minimum buffer zone.
   (B)   Cannabis business locations. Cannabis businesses may be located in the
following zoning districts as follows:
      (1)   Cultivation.
         (a)   Indoor or outdoor cultivation in the R-S, Rural Service Overlay
District, as an interim use;
         (b)   Indoor cultivation in the GI, General Industrial District, as a
conditional use.
      (2)   Cannabis manufacturer. In the GI, General Industrial District, as a
conditional use.
      (3)   Hemp manufacturer. In the GI, General Industrial District, as a
permitted use.
      (4)   Wholesale. LI, Limited Industrial District, and the GI, General
Industrial District, as a conditional use.
      (5)   Cannabis retail. HSD, Hester Street District, as a conditional use;
and B-1A, Downtown Business District, B-1B, Downtown Mixed Use District, B-2,
Highway Commercial District, and B-3, General Commercial District, as a
permitted use.
      (6)   Cannabis transportation. LI, Limited Industrial District, and the
GI, General Industrial District, as a conditional use.
      (7)   Cannabis delivery. LI, Limited Industrial District, and the GI,
General Industrial District, as a conditional use.
   (C)   Performance standards. The following minimum requirements shall apply
to cannabis businesses:
      (1)   Cannabis cultivator or manufacturing businesses that are located
within a building shall provide for odor abatement through mechanical scrubbers
or similar means and not allow odor to be detectable from the property line.
      (2)   All required security measures for cannabis cultivation or
manufacturing businesses shall require screening to all adjacent properties.
      (3)   Any interim or conditional use permit sought for a cannabis
business shall require a security plan.
      (4)   Any cannabis cultivator or manufacturing business shall require the
provision of an adequate wastewater management plan.
      (5)   The operator of a cannabis cultivation on property within the R-
S Overlay shall reside on the property.
      (6)   Any building used for cannabis cultivation within the R-S Overlay
shall have a minimum 200-foot setback to a property line.
   (D)   Hours of operation. Cannabis businesses are limited to retail sale of
cannabis, cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or
hemp-derived consumer products between the hours of Monday to Saturday, 8:00
a.m. to 10:00 p.m.; and Sunday, 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 11-25-2024, § 3)
DISTRICT PROVISIONS
§ 154.085 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the City is hereby divided into the
following zoning districts:
Symbol Name
Symbol    Name
B-1       Downtown Business District
B-2       Highway Commercial District
BP        Bluff Protection (Overlay) District
CR        Cannon Recreational River (Overlay) District
FW and FF Floodplain (Overlay) District
GI        General Industry District
LDSF      Low Density Single-Family Residential District
LI        Limited Industry District
NRSF      Natural Resource Single-Family Residential District
P-OS      Public-Open Space District
PUD       Planned Unit Development (Overlay) District
R-1       Single-Family Residential District
R-2       Two-Family and Townhouse District
R-3       Multiple-Family Residential District
R-S       Rural Service (Overlay) District
WP        Wetland Protection Overlay District
 
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 5, sub. 1)
§ 154.086 ZONING MAP.
   The location and boundaries established by this chapter are set forth on the
zoning map which is hereby incorporated as part of this chapter. It shall be
the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator to maintain and update this map
and the amendments to the map shall be recorded within 30 days after official
adoption of zoning amendments.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 5, sub. 2; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-22-2023, § 22; Ord.
2023-07, passed 8-28-2023, § 12)
§ 154.087 NRSF, NATURAL RESOURCE SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to protect natural resources
and environmentally sensitive areas of the City by limiting development to low
density-large acreage lots.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses in the NRSF District include:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings;
      (2)   Playgrounds and parks; and
      (3)   Essential services.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Permitted accessory uses include: private garages;
parking spaces and carports; fences; decorative landscape features;
recreational equipment (including swimming pools and tennis courts); in-home
family day care facility, and tool houses or sheds for storage of domestic
supplies.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following are conditional uses in a NRSF
District and require a conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth
in and regulated by §
154.022 of this chapter:
      (1)   Planned unit developments (PUDs).
   (E)   Performance standards. The following minimum requirements shall be
observed in an NRSF District:
      (1)   Lot area: two and one-half acres;
      (2)   Lot width: 200 feet;
      (3)   Setbacks:
         (a)   Front yards: not less than 50 feet. In the case of corner lots,
two front yards will be required;
         (b)   Side yards: not less than 20 feet on each side;
         (c)   Rear yards: not less than 35 feet; and
         (d)   Wetlands: not less than 30 feet from the ordinary high
watermark.
      (4)   Impervious surface coverage shall not exceed 10% of the lot area;
and
      (5)   Street address, visible from street, on front of structure.
   (F)   Interim uses. The following are interim uses in a NRSF District and
require an interim use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated
by §
154.026 of this chapter: home occupations, as regulated by §
154.064 of this chapter.
      (1)   Home occupations, as regulated by §
154.064 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 5.5; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-22-2023, § 8; Ord. 2024-
03, passed 11-25-2024, § 2)
§ 154.088 R-S, RURAL SERVICE OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The major purpose of this overlay district is to establish a
district in the rural parts of the City that is for agricultural uses,
landscape nurseries, forest lands and privately-owned recreational uses, such
as golf courses, and similar activities. This section is established pursuant
to Ord. 25.02, passed by the City Council on 7-10-2000.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses in the R-S District include:
      (1)   Agriculture, including farm crops, and farm and agricultural
related buildings* and structures (but not residential dwellings), subject to
the state’s pollution control standards, but not including feedlots, manure
spreading, livestock management or other commercial or industrial operations;
and
      (2)   Essential services.
      * Farm and agriculture-related buildings existing (but not residential
dwellings) at the time a property is first included in the Rural Service
District may continue to be utilized for agricultural purposes. Existing
buildings and structures may be repaired or replaced, if destroyed by wind or
fire, but may not be expanded. No permit shall be granted to construct any new
or additional buildings or structures.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Permitted accessory uses include: private garages;
parking spaces and carports; fences; decorative landscape features;
recreational equipment (including swimming pools and tennis courts); and tool
houses or sheds for storage of domestic supplies.
   (D)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Conditional uses in this district are subject to the following
requirements:
         (a)   A conditional use permit is applied for based on procedures set
forth in §
154.022 of this chapter;
         (b)   Screening and landscaping in compliance with §
154.071 of this chapter shall be required;
         (c)   Off-street parking is provided in compliance with §
154.067 of this chapter; and
         (d)   Any other conditions deemed to be necessary to reduce possible
adverse impacts by the development, as determined by the Planning Commission or
City Council.
      (2)   Conditional uses in this district include: none.
   (E)   Prohibited uses. No animal feedlot or manure spreading shall be
allowed within this district. No use which is permitted in the underlying
district shall be allowed until the RS Zoning Overlay District is removed from
the property.
   (F)   Registration of existing farm animals at the time of adoption of this
chapter. Any farm animals kept or maintained within the City limits shall be
registered with the City by no later than 4-1-2005. Thereafter, to the extent
that existing farm animals are not registered with the City, all property
within the City shall comply with the requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   Interim uses. The following are interim uses in a R-S Overlay District
and require an interim use permit based upon procedures set forth in and
regulated by §
154.026 of this chapter:
      (1)   Landscape nurseries or forest lands;
      (2)   Privately-owned recreational uses, such as golf courses, golf
driving ranges and similar outdoor recreational activities that require
relatively large amounts of land; and
      (3)   Maintenance and confinement of farm animals, which do not meet the
definition of an “animal feedlot”.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 6; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-22-2023, § 9)
§ 154.089 R-1, LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is for low density residential
dwelling units in areas identified for such in the comprehensive plan.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses in the R-1 District include:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings;
      (2)   Playgrounds and parks; and
      (3)   Essential services.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Permitted accessory uses include: private garages,
parking spaces and carports, fences, decorative landscape features,
recreational equipment (including swimming pools and tennis courts), in-home
family day care, and tool houses or sheds for storage of domestic supplies.
   (D)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Conditional uses in this district are subject to the following
requirements:
         (a)   A conditional use permit is applied for based on procedures set
forth in §
154.022 of this chapter;
         (b)   Screening and landscaping in compliance with §
154.071 of this chapter shall be required;
         (c)   Off-street parking is provided in compliance with §
154.067 of this chapter; and
         (d)   Any other conditions deemed to be necessary to reduce possible
adverse impacts by the development, as determined by the Planning Commission or
City Council.
      (2)   Conditional uses in this district include: none.
         (a)   Religious institutions, conditioned on access being provided
only off of a collector road.
   (E)   Performance standards. The following minimum requirements shall be
observed in an R-1 District:
      (1)   Lot area: 10,000 square feet for single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Lot width: 75 feet;
      (3)   Setbacks:
         (a)   Front yards: not less than 30 feet. In the case of corner lots,
two front yards will be required;
         (b)   Side yards: not less than ten feet on each side:
            1.   Principal building: ten feet; and
            2.   Detached accessory structures: five feet if located in the
rear yard.
         (c)   Rear yards: not less than 25 feet:
            1.   Principal building: 25 feet; and
            2.   Detached accessory structures: five feet.
      (4)   Street address, visible from street, on front of structure; and
      (5)   Signs:
         (a)   One nameplate sign for each dwelling not to exceed two square
feet in area per surface, and no sign shall be so constructed as to have more
than two surfaces; and
         (b)   One nameplate sign for each permitted non-residential use or use
by conditional use permit. The signs shall not exceed 12 square feet in area
per surface and no sign shall be so constructed as to have more than two
surfaces.
      (6)   Impervious surfaces: Not more than 40%.
   (F)   Interim uses. The following are interim uses in a R-1 District and
require an interim use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated
by §
154.026 of this chapter:
      (1)   Home occupations, as regulated by §
154.064 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 7; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-22-2023, § 10; Ord. 2023-
07, passed 8-28-2023, § 2)
§ 154.090 R-2, TRADITIONAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to allow the continuation of
existing residential development and infilling of existing lots in the historic
residential areas of the city.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses in the R-2 District include:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings;
      (2)   Playgrounds and parks; and
      (3)   Essential services.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Permitted accessory uses include: private garages;
parking spaces and carports; fences; decorative landscape features;
recreational equipment (including swimming pools and tennis courts); in-home
family day care, and tool houses or sheds for storage of domestic supplies.
   (D)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Conditional uses in this district are subject to the following
requirements:
         (a)   A conditional use permit is applied for based on procedures set
forth in §
154.022 of this chapter;
         (b)   Screening and landscaping in compliance with §
154.071 of this chapter shall be required;
         (c)   Off-street parking is provided in compliance with §
154.067 of this chapter; and
         (d)   Any other conditions deemed to be necessary to reduce possible
adverse impacts by the development, as determined by the Planning Commission or
City Council.
      (2)   Conditional uses in this district include:
         (a)   Places of worship, conditioned on access being provided only off
of a collector road; and
         (b)   Bed and breakfast facilities.
   (E)   Performance standards. The following minimum requirements shall be
observed in a R-2 District:
      (1)   Lot area: 7,500 square feet for single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Lot width: 65 feet;
      (3)   Setbacks:
         (a)   Front yards: not less than 30 feet.
         (b)   Corner: not less than 15 feet, provided no corner side facing
garage shall be closer than 20 feet.
         (c)   Side yards: not less than 7.5 feet on each side:
            1.   Principal building: 7.5 feet; and
            2.   Detached accessory structures: five feet if located in the
rear yard.
         (d)   Rear yards: not less than 25 feet:
            1.   Principal building: 25 feet; and
            2.   Detached accessory structures: five feet.
      (4)   Street address, visible from street, on front of structure; and
      (5)   Signs:
         (a)   One nameplate sign for each dwelling not to exceed two square
feet in area per surface, and no sign shall be so constructed as to have more
than two surfaces; and
         (b)   One nameplate sign for each permitted non-residential use or use
by conditional use permit. The signs shall not exceed 12 square feet in area
per surface and no sign shall be so constructed as to have more than two
surfaces.
      (6)   Impervious surfaces: Not more than 60%.
   (F)   Interim uses. The following are interim uses in a R-2 District and
require an interim use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated
by §
154.026 of this chapter:
      (1)   Home occupations, as regulated by §
154.064 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 8; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-22-2023, § 11; Ord. 2023-
07, passed 8-28-2023, § 3)
§ 154.091 R-3, MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to allow the construction of
single-family homes, duplexes, twin homes, and townhouses in a medium density
setting, as defined by the comprehensive plan.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses in the R-2 District include:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings;
      (2)   Duplexes, twin homes and townhouses;
      (3)   Playgrounds and parks; and
      (4)   Essential services.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Permitted accessory uses include: private garages;
parking spaces and carports; fences; decorative landscape features;
recreational equipment (including swimming pools and tennis courts); in-home
family day care facilities, and tool houses or sheds for storage of domestic
supplies.
   (D)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Conditional uses in this district are subject to the following
requirements:
         (a)   A conditional use permit is applied for based on procedures set
forth in §
154.022 of this chapter;
         (b)   Screening and landscaping in compliance with §
154.071 of this chapter shall be required;
         (c)   Off-street parking is provided in compliance with §
154.067 of this chapter; and
         (d)   Any other conditions deemed to be necessary to reduce possible
adverse impacts by the development, as determined by the Planning Commission or
City Council.
      (2)   Conditional uses in this District include:
         (a)   Manufactured home parks subject to the performance standards of
this District.
   (E)   Performance standards. The following minimum requirements shall be
observed in a R-3 District:
      (1)   Lot area:
         (a)   Ten thousand square feet minimum lot size for two-family
dwellings, duplexes and townhouses or manufactured home park; and
         (b)   Five thousand square feet per unit for single-family homes, each
townhome, duplex, twinhome unit and manufactured home.
      (2)   Lot width: 55 feet for single-family, 50 for two-family unit lots,
and 75 for all other uses;
      (3)   Setbacks:
         (a)   Front yards: not less than 30 feet;
         (b)   Corner: not less than 15 feet, provided no corner side facing
garage shall be closer than 20 feet;
         (c)   Side yards: not less than five feet on each side; and
         (d)   Rear yards: not less than 25 feet:
            1.   Principal building: 25 feet; and
            2.   Detached accessory structures: five feet.
      (4)   Street address, visible from street, on front of structure; and
      (5)   Signs:
         (a)   One nameplate sign for each dwelling not to exceed two square
feet in area per surface, and no sign shall be so constructed as to have more
than two surfaces; and
         (b)   One nameplate sign for each permitted non-residential use or use
by conditional use permit. The signs shall not exceed 12 square feet in area
per surface and no sign shall be so constructed as to have more than two
surfaces.
      (6)   Impervious surfaces. Not more than 65%.
   (F)   Interim uses. The following are interim uses in a R-3 District and
require an interim use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated
by §
154.026 of this chapter:
      (1)   Home occupations, as regulated by §
154.064 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-22-2023, § 12; Ord. 2023-07, passed 8-28-2023, § 4)
§ 154.092 R-4, HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to allow the construction of
multiple-family buildings.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses in the R-4 District include:
      (1)   Multiple-family dwellings (apartments) with four or more units;
      (2)   Townhouses;
      (3)   Playgrounds and parks; and
      (4)   Essential services.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Permitted accessory uses include: private garages;
parking spaces and carports; fences; decorative landscape features;
recreational equipment (including swimming pools and tennis courts); in-home
family day care facilities, and tool houses or sheds for storage of domestic
supplies.
   (D)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Conditional uses in this District are subject to the following
requirements:
         (a)   A conditional use permit is applied for based on procedures set
forth in §
154.022 of this chapter;
         (b)   Screening and landscaping in compliance with §
154.071 of this chapter shall be required;
         (c)   Off-street parking is provided in compliance with §
154.067 of this chapter; and
         (d)   Any other conditions deemed to be necessary to reduce possible
adverse impacts by the development, as determined by the Planning Commission or
City Council.
      (2)   Conditional uses in this District include:
         (a)   Public or semi-public recreational or community buildings;
         (b)   Places of worship, conditioned on access being provided only off
of a collector road;
         (c)   Manufactured home parks subject to the performance standards of
the R-3 District;
         (d)   Nursing homes/assisted living facilities;
         (e)   Chemical dependency treatment centers; and
         (f)   Public or private schools.
   (E)   Performance standards. The following minimum requirements shall be
observed in a R-4 District:
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 12,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot area per unit: 2,500 square feet for each apartment
dwelling unit or 3,000 square feet for each townhome unit/manufactured home in
a manufactured home park;
      (3)   Lot width: 100 feet;
      (4)   Setbacks:
         (a)   Front yards: not less than 30 feet. In the case of corner lots,
two front yards will be required;
         (b)   Side yards: not less than ten feet on each side or 25 feet from
a public right-of- way; and
         (c)   Rear yards: not less than 25 feet.
      (5)   Street address, visible from street, on front of structure; and
      (6)   Signs:
         (a)   One nameplate sign for each dwelling not to exceed two square
feet in area per surface, and no sign shall be so constructed as to have more
than two surfaces; and
         (b)   One nameplate sign for each permitted non-residential use or use
by conditional use permit. The signs shall not exceed 12 square feet in area
per surface and no sign shall be so constructed as to have more than two
surfaces.
      (7)   Impervious surface maximum: 50%.
   (F)   Interim uses. The following are interim uses in a R-3 District and
require an interim use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated
by §
154.026 of this chapter:
      (1)   Home occupations, as regulated by §
154.064 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-22-2023, § 13; Ord. 2023-07, passed 8-28-2023, § 5)
§ 154.093 HSD, HESTER STREET DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. This neighborhood commercial corridor district connects the
Highway 3 commercial area to the downtown area and serves as a welcoming
gateway to draw activity downtown. The district is also a transition between
residential neighborhoods, traffic on Hester Street and higher intensity
commercial areas where new development and redevelopment is anticipated. The
HSD District includes uses that will not disrupt nearby, low density land uses
through high traffic generation, noise, appearance or other nuisances.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses in the HSD District include:
      (1)   Essential services;
      (2)   Out-patient health or mental health providers limited to physical
therapy, therapeutic massage, chiropractors, dentists, orthodontia, oral
surgeons and opticians;
      (3)   Personal services limited to barber/beauty shops and nail and
tanning salons;
      (4)   Professional, administrative or clerical service operations
including, but not limited to, attorneys, accounts, financial advisors,
consulting, insurance, travel and real estate;
      (5)   Production of art and craft products and on-premises retail sales
of those products and related products including, but not limited to, painting,
decorating and photography studios;
      (6)   Repair services limited to jewelry and small electronic appliance/
computer repair shops, but not auto repair; and
      (7)   Tailoring services.
   (C)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in the HSD
District:
      (1)   Accessory buildings and uses incidental and customary to uses
allowed as permitted, conditional, interim and administratively permitted in
this chapter;
      (2)   Fences as regulated by §
154.073 of this chapter;
      (3)   Signs as regulated by §§
154.160 through
154.170 of this chapter; and
      (4)   Off-street parking and loading as regulated by §
154.067 of this chapter.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following are conditional uses in the HSD
District and require a conditional use permit based upon the procedures and
criteria of §
154.026 of this chapter:
      (1)   Retail commercial activities.
      (2)   Mixing of residential and business uses within one principal
building; provided that:
         (a)   The residential and non-residential uses shall not conflict in
any manner;
         (b)   There shall be separate entrances for residential and business
uses; and
         (c)   Residential uses shall comply with the off-street parking
requirements of §
154.067 of this chapter.
      (3)   Bed and breakfast facilities;
      (4)   Coffee, tea and small cafés; provided that:
         (a)   No roasting is conducted on site;
         (b)   Business hours shall be limited to 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.;
         (c)   No exhaust or ventilation may be directed to adjacent
residential uses; and
         (d)   The facility contains no drive-through service.
      (5)   Production of art and craft products with the potential for
negative impacts including noise, vibration and odor such as, but not limited
to, sculpture, ceramic/pottery works, furniture and candle making, and the on-
premises retail sales of those products and related products; provided that:
         (a)   No exhaust or ventilation may be directed to adjacent
residential uses; and
         (b)   Adequate measures are installed to mitigate sound.
      (6)   Two non-residential uses on the same property; provided that, there
is very little or no parking demand or traffic associated with one of the non-
residential uses;
      (7)   On- and off-sale liquor establishments;
      (8)   Convenience food establishments;
      (9)   Restaurants; and
      (10)   Breweries with taprooms/distilleries with cocktail rooms.
   (E)   Prohibited uses. The following uses are not allowed in the HSD
District:
      (1)   Outdoor storage;
      (2)   Outdoor sales;
      (3)   Auto-oriented uses;
      (4)   Fuel sales;
      (5)   More than one detached single-family home;
      (6)   Warehousing and storage uses, except as an accessory use as
permitted in this district; and
      (7)   Drive through lanes.
   (F)   Performance standards. The following minimum requirements shall be
observed in the HSD District:
      (1)   Lot area: 8,700 square feet;
      (2)   Lot width: 65 feet;
      (3)   Setbacks:
         (a)   Front yards: ten feet. In the case of corner lots, two front
yards will be required;
         (b)   Interior side yards: ten feet if the adjacent property is zoned
for residential use, otherwise no side yard is required; and
         (c)   Rear yards: ten feet.
      (4)   All trash and recycling containers shall comply with screening
requirements of §
154.071 of this chapter;
      (5)   Landscaping: parcels with non-residential uses shall be landscaped
with at least two deciduous shade trees per 50 lineal feet of public right-of-
way frontage. Ornamental trees and/or shrubs may be substituted for shade trees
at the rate of three to one (3:1). Landscaping shall be placed within the
required ten-foot setback adjacent to public right-of-way;
      (6)   Maximum building/impervious surface coverage: 75%;
      (7)   New construction:
         (a)   Exterior building materials: the exterior walls of all new
structures shall be surfaced with any of the following materials: brick; stone;
rock faced block; stucco; EIFS; wood; fiber cement and glass; or other
materials as approved through the site plan approval process and shall be
reasonably compatible with adjacent properties;
         (b)   Off-street parking spaces for businesses shall not be located
between the principal structure and Hester Street; and
         (c)   Buildings shall be oriented, including front doors, to Hester
Street.
      (8)   All business use must be conducted in the principal structure.
   (G)   Site plan review. All plans for development shall require processing
of a formal site and building plan review according to §§
154.040 through
154.047 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 9; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-22-2023, § 14)
§ 154.094     P-OS, PUBLIC-OPEN SPACE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the P-OS, Public-Open Space District is to
provide for a specific zoning district allowing facilities devoted to serving
the public. It is unique in that the primary objective of uses within this
district is the provision of services, frequently on a non-profit basis, rather
than the sale of goods or services. It is intended that uses within such a
district will be compatible with adjoining development, and they will often be
located along arterial or major collector streets with full availability of
urban services.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses in the POS District include:
      (1)   Parks, trails, playfields, playgrounds and directly related
buildings and structures in the City only;
      (2)   Public civic or cultural buildings, such as libraries, public
administration buildings, fire stations, Police Department buildings and
historical developments in the City only;
      (3)   Governmental utility buildings, public maintenance buildings and
structures necessary for the health, safety and general welfare of the
community in the City only;
      (4)   Essential services;
      (5)   Storm water management facilities;
      (6)   Public docks, boat landings and boat launch areas; and
      (7)   Swimming pools, tennis courts and other recreational facilities.
   (C)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in a POS
District:
      (1)   Accessory uses and buildings incidental and customary to uses
allowed as permitted, conditional, interim and administrative permits in this
chapter;
      (2)   Fences as regulated by §
154.073 of this chapter;
      (3)   Off-street parking as regulated by §
154.067 of this chapter;
      (4)   Secondary or accessory use antennas or satellites as regulated by §
154.063 of this chapter; and
      (5)   Signs as regulated by §§
154.160 through
154.170 of this chapter.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following are conditional uses in a POS District
and require a conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth in and
regulated by §
154.022 of this chapter:
      (1)   Antennas: personal wireless service antennas and telephone antennas
not located on an existing structure or tower, as regulated by §
154.191 of this chapter;
      (2)   Automobile parking lots as a principal use; provided that, the
parking lot shall be subject to the requirements for off-street parking
established by §
154.067 of this chapter;
      (3)   Cemeteries;
      (4)   Day care facilities as a principal or accessory use, except as
otherwise allowed for by this chapter; provided that, the use complies with the
provisions of §
154.071 of this chapter;
      (5)   Essential services;
      (6)   Governmental and public regulated utility buildings, public
maintenance buildings and structures necessary for the health, safety and
general welfare of the community, other than City;
      (7)   Parks and recreational areas owned or operated by public bodies
other than the City; and
      (8)   Public civic auditoriums, indoor recreation centers, arenas or
other facilities both City or other government unit with an event seating
capacity of more than 300 persons; provided that, access to the facility shall
be provided only from a major collector or arterial street.
   (E)   Design standards. The architectural appearance and functional design
of the building and site shall maintain a high standard of architectural and
aesthetic compatibility with surrounding uses so as to positively reflect
desired community character. All sides of the principal and accessory
structures are to have essentially the same or coordinated, harmonious exterior
finish materials and treatment.
   (F)   Lot requirements and setbacks. The following minimum requirements
shall be observed in a P-OS District:
      (1)   Parks, trails, playfields and playgrounds:
         (a)   Lot area: none;
         (b)   Lot width: none;
         (c)   Setbacks (structures only):
            1.   Front yards: 30 feet;
            2.   Rear yards: 30 feet; and
            3.   Side yards: ten feet; 30 feet abutting an R District or public
right-of-way.
         (d)   Maximum building height: 35 feet.
      (2)   All other uses:
         (a)   Lot area: 20,000 square feet;
         (b)   Lot width: 100 feet;
         (c)   Setbacks:
            1.   Front yards: 30 feet;
            2.   Rear yards: 30 feet; and
            3.   Side yards: ten feet; 30 feet abutting an R District or public
right-of-way.
         (d)   Maximum building height: 35 feet.
         (e)   Impervious surface maximum: 35%.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 11; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-22-2023, § 15)
§ 154.095 B-1A, DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Downtown Business District is to provide
for medium intensity retail and service outlets which provide goods and
services in the downtown area of the City along and adjacent to Railway Street.
When a reference is made to the B-1 District it applies to both the B-1A and B-
1B Districts.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses in this district include:
      (1)   Bakeries;
      (2)   Financial institutions;
      (3)   Barber shops and beauty parlors;
      (4)   Commercial and professional offices;
      (5)   Convenience food establishments;
      (6)   Dry cleaning (pick up and drop off locations) and self-service
laundry establishments;
      (7)   Drug stores;
      (8)   Essential services;
      (9)   Grocery stores;
      (10)   Hardware, paint and building material sales (in enclosed buildings
only);
      (11)   Medical and dental offices and clinics;
      (12)   On- and off-sale liquor establishments;
      (13)   Repair services such as, but not limited to, jewelry, radio and
television repair shops;
      (14)   Public/government offices;
      (15)   Restaurants;
      (16)   Retail merchandising establishments similar, but not limited, to
those above;
      (17)   Hotels; and
      (18)   Brewery with taproom/distillery with cocktail room.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Permitted accessory uses in a B-1A District are those
commercial or business buildings and structures accessory to the principal use.
The accessory uses shall not exceed 30% of the gross floor space of the
principal use.
   (D)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Conditional uses in this district are subject to the following
requirements:
         (a)   A conditional use permit is applied for based on procedures set
forth in §
154.022 of this chapter;
         (b)   Screening from abutting residential uses and landscaping in
compliance with §
154.071 of this chapter shall be required;
         (c)   Off-street parking is provided in compliance with §
154.067 of this chapter; and
         (d)   Any other conditions deemed to be necessary to reduce possible
adverse impacts by the development, as determined by the Planning Commission or
City Council.
      (2)   Conditional uses in this district include:
         (a)   Commercial developments undertaken by two or more property
owners in which the extension of an existing structure is proposed or a
structure spans more than one lot. Side yards shall not be required in these
cases unless the side yard abuts residentially zoned property or a public road.
Side yard requirements specified below shall apply in these areas;
         (b)   Governmental and public regulated utility buildings and
structures necessary for the health, safety and general welfare of the
community;
         (c)   Apartments as an integral part of commercial structures and
which are located on the upper floors of the structure;
         (d)   Production of art and craft products and on-premises retail
sales of those products and related products.
   (E)   Performance standards. The following minimum requirements shall be
observed in a B-1 District:
      (1)   Lot width: 50 feet;
      (2)   Setbacks for all yards: 25 feet where abutting a residential
district, otherwise there is no minimum setback, a permissible zero-lot-line
setback, and a ten-foot maximum setback to a public right-of-way;
      (3)   Maximum size: 25,000 square feet for any retail building in this
district; and
      (4)   Signs: (See also §
154.071 of this chapter.) the aggregate square footage of sign space per lot
shall not exceed the greater of one and one-half square feet per lineal foot of
effective building frontage; or 10% of the gross area of the effective front
face of the building to the height of the eave line or top of parapet, not to
exceed 20 feet. This limitation shall include pylon or freestanding signs;
except that, the sign areas shall be computed on the basis of the area of one
side, if both sides are the same. EFFECTIVE BUILDING FRONTAGE is the length of
the face of the building parallel to the lot frontage, or as projected to a
line parallel to the lot frontage. The lot frontage is that side of the
building which includes the main entry of the building.
   (F)   Interim uses. The following are interim uses in a B-1 District and
require an interim use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated
by §
154.026 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 12; Ord 2019-08, passed 10-14-2019, § 1; Ord. 2023-
03, passed 5-22-2023, § 16, Ord. 2023-07, passed 8-28-2023, §§ 6, 7)
§ 154.096 B-1B, DOWNTOWN MIXED USE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Downtown Mixed Use District is to provide
for retail and service outlets and higher density residential units in the
downtown area of the City. When a reference is made to the B-1 District it
applies to both the B-1A and B-1B Districts.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses in this District include:
      (1)   All uses permitted within the B-1A District;
      (2)   Apartments; and
      (3)   Townhomes.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Permitted accessory uses in a B-1B District are those
commercial or business buildings and structures accessory to the principal use.
The accessory uses shall not exceed 30% of the gross floor space of the
principal use.
   (D)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Conditional uses in this District are subject to the following
requirements:
         (a)   A conditional use permit is applied for based on procedures set
forth in §
154.022 of this chapter;
         (b)   Screening from abutting residential uses and landscaping in
compliance with §
154.071 of this chapter shall be required;
         (c)   Off-street parking is provided in compliance with §
154.067 of this chapter; and
         (d)   Any other conditions deemed to be necessary to reduce possible
adverse impacts by the development, as determined by the Planning Commission or
City Council.
      (2)   Conditional uses in this District include:
         (a)   Commercial developments undertaken by two or more property
owners in which the extension of an existing structure is proposed or a
structure spans more than one lot. Side yards shall not be required in these
cases unless the side yard abuts residentially zoned property or a public road.
Side yard requirements specified below shall apply in these areas;
         (b)   Governmental and public regulated utility buildings and
structures necessary for the health, safety and general welfare of the
community; and
         (c)   Production of art and craft products and on-premises retail
sales of those products and related products.
   (E)   Performance standards. The following minimum requirements shall be
observed in a B-1B District:
      (1)   Lot width: 75 feet;
      (2)   Setbacks for all yards: 25 feet where abutting a residential
district, otherwise there is no minimum setback, a permissible zero-lot-line
setback, and a ten-foot maximum setback to a public right-of-way;
      (3)   Maximum size: 25,000 square feet for any retail building in this
District; and
      (4)   Signs: (See also §
154.071 of this chapter) the aggregate square footage of sign space per lot
shall not exceed the greater of one and one-half square feet per lineal foot of
effective building frontage; or 10% of the gross area of the effective front
face of the building to the height of the eave line or top of parapet, not to
exceed 20 feet. This limitation shall include pylon or freestanding signs;
except that, the sign areas shall be computed on the basis of the area of one
side, if both sides are the same. EFFECTIVE BUILDING FRONTAGE is the length of
the face of the building parallel to the lot frontage, or as projected to a
line parallel to the lot frontage. The lot frontage is that side of the
building which includes the main entry of the building.
      (5)   Impervious surface maximum: 90%.
   (F)   Interim uses. The following are interim uses in a B-1B District and
require an interim use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated
by §
154.026 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-22-2023, § 17)
§ 154.097 B-2, HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The B-2 Highway Commercial District is intended to provide a
district allowing for the development of highway oriented businesses and “big
box” retail uses which require concentrations of auto traffic closely related
to existing urban areas and/or major transportation routes. The district is
also intended to accommodate those commercial uses which may be incompatible
with predominantly retail uses permitted in the downtown business district and
whose service is not confined to any one neighborhood or community.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses in the B-2 District include:
      (1)   Day care center;
      (2)   Retail centers and commercial office buildings. Development of
individual and/or groups of buildings that are 80,000 square feet (individually
and cumulatively) and larger require zoning as PUD. Expansions of existing
buildings over 80,000 square feet or expansions resulting in buildings that are
80,000 square feet (individually and cumulatively) also require zoning as a
PUD. The projects will be evaluated based on the design guidelines in §§
154.115 through
154.128 of this chapter;
      (3)    All permitted uses allowed in the B-1A District; and
      (4)   Day care center.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Permitted accessory uses in the B-2 District are those
commercial or business buildings and structures accessory to the principal use.
The accessory uses shall not exceed 30% of the gross floor space of the
principal use.
   (D)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Conditional uses in this district are subject to the following
requirements:
         (a)   A conditional use permit is applied for based on procedures set
forth in § 154.022 of this chapter;
         (b)   Screening and landscaping in compliance with § 154.071 of this
chapter shall be required; and
         (c)   Off-street parking is provided in compliance with § 154.067 of
this chapter.
      (2)   Conditional uses in this district include:
         (a)   Commercial developments undertaken by two or more property
owners in which the extension of an existing structure is proposed, a new
structure is proposed, or a structure spans more than one lot. Side yards shall
not be required (a zero lot line setback) in these cases unless the side yard
abuts residentially zoned property or a public road. Side yard requirements
specified below shall apply in these areas;
         (b)   Accessory adult uses as defined in
Ch. 117 of this code;
         (c)   Motor fuel station;
         (d)   Auto sales;
         (e)   Car wash; and
         (f)   Auto repair facility - minor.
   (E)   Performance standards. The following minimum requirements shall be
observed in the B-2 District:
      (1)   Lot area: 15,000 square feet;
      (2)   Lot width: 75 feet;
      (3)   Setbacks:
         (a)   Front yards: not less than 25 feet. In the case of corner lots,
two front yards will be required.
         (b)   Side yards: not less than ten feet on each side, except where
there is a permissible zero lot line setback pursuant to division (D)(2)(a)
above or 25 feet when abutting a public right-of-way or a residential district;
and
         (c)   Rear yards: not less than 25 feet.
      (4)   Impervious surface maximum: 65%.
   (F)   Interim uses. The following are interim uses in a B-2 District and
require an interim use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated
by § 154.026 of this chapter: none.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 13; Ord. 2017-01, passed 3-27-2017; Ord. 2019-01,
passed 1-28-2019, § 1; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-22-2023, § 18; Ord. 2023-07,
passed 8-28-2023, §§ 8 - 10)
§ 154.098 B-3, GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The B-3, General Commercial District is intended to provide
for the development of general business, assembly, office, and similar uses.
The District is located on the periphery of the retail commercial oriented
areas.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses in the B-3 District include:
      (1)   Adult education/vocational schools;
      (2)   Banquet halls/conference centers;
      (3)   Club or lodge;
      (4)   Commercial recreation - indoor;
      (5)   Day care center;
      (6)   Funeral home;
      (7)   Library;
      (8)   Theater;
      (9)   Retail centers and commercial office buildings. Development of
individual and/or groups of buildings that are 80,000 square feet (individually
and cumulatively) and larger require zoning as PUD. Expansions of existing
buildings over 80,000 square feet or expansions resulting in buildings that are
80,000 square feet (individually and cumulatively) also require zoning as a
PUD. The projects will be evaluated based on the design guidelines in §§
154.115 through
154.128 of this chapter; and
      (10)   All permitted uses allowed in the B-1A District.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Permitted accessory uses in the B-2 District are those
commercial or business buildings and structures accessory to the principal use.
The accessory uses shall not exceed 30% of the gross floor space of the
principal use.
   (D)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Conditional uses in this District are subject to the following
requirements:
         (a)   A conditional use permit is applied for based on procedures set
forth in §
154.022 of this chapter;
         (b)   Screening and landscaping in compliance with §
154.071 of this chapter shall be required; and
         (c)   Off-street parking is provided in compliance with §
154.067 of this chapter.
      (2)   Conditional uses in this District include:
         (a)   Commercial developments undertaken by two or more property
owners in which the extension of an existing structure is proposed, a new
structure is proposed, or a structure spans more than one lot. Side yards shall
not be required (a zero lot line setback) in these cases unless the side yard
abuts residentially zoned property or a public road. Side yard requirements
specified below shall apply in these areas;
         (b)   Accessory adult uses as defined in
Ch. 117 of this code;
         (c)   Places of worship, conditioned on access being provided only off
of a collector road;
         (d)   Motor fuel station;
         (e)   Auto sales;
         (f)   Car wash;
         (g)   Auto repair facility - minor; and
         (h)   Public or private school.
   (E)   Performance standards. The following minimum requirements shall be
observed in the B-3 District:
      (1)   Lot area: 15,000 square feet;
      (2)   Lot width: 75 feet;
      (3)   Setbacks:
         (a)   Front yards: not less than 25 feet. In the case of corner lots,
two front yards will be required.
         (b)   Side yards: not less than ten feet on each side, except where
there is a permissible zero lot line setback pursuant to division (D)(2)(a)
above or 25 feet when abutting a public right-of-way or a residential district;
and
         (c)   Rear yards: not less than 25 feet.
      (4)   Impervious surface maximum: 65%.
   (F)   Interim uses. The following are interim uses in a B-2 District and
require an interim use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated
by §
154.026 of this chapter: none.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 8-28-2023, § 11; Ord. 2024-03, passed 11-25-2024, § 4)
§ 154.099 LI, LIMITED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Limited Industrial District is to
establish and preserve areas for industrial and related uses of such a nature
that they do not create serious problems of compatibility with other land uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses in the LI District include:
      (1)   Light manufacturing uses that are not similar to any of the uses
allowed or prohibited in the GI District and that do not cause noise, dust or
other pollution that are a nuisance to neighbors;
      (2)   Wholesaling;
      (3)   Warehousing;
      (4)   Bulk storage of under 1,000 gallons accessory to other uses
permitted in the district;
      (5)   Laboratories;
      (6)   Offices (except contractors offices), office-showrooms and office-
warehouses;
      (7)   Machine and metal shops;
      (8)   Essential services;
      (9)   Government and public utility buildings and structures;
      (10)   Broadcasting antennas;
      (11)   Printing and publishing establishments;
      (12)   Fuel sales and service stations, to include accessory retail and
food service uses, that are fully contained within the principal use structure;
      (13)   Government and public utility buildings and structures;
      (14)   Outdoor civic events conducted by non-profit organizations, each
such outdoor event being limited to 14 days in any calendar year;
      (15)   Radio and television stations;
      (16)   Commercial printing establishments;
      (17)   Trade schools;
      (18)   Minor auto repair; and
      (19)   Brewery or distillery without taproom or cocktail room.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Permitted accessory uses in an LI District are those
incidental repair, retail trade, processing or storage facilities necessary to
conduct a permitted principal use:
      (1)   Retail sales of products manufactured on the site shall be allowed
as an accessory use. A maximum of 20% of the floor area of the space occupied
by the manufacturing company may be used for retail sales purposes;
      (2)   Off-street loading;
      (3)   Off-street parking, but not including semi-trailer trucks; and
      (4)   Semi-truck parking, incidental to the principal use.
   (D)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Conditional uses in this district are subject to the following
requirements:
         (a)   A conditional use permit is applied for based on procedures set
forth in §
154.022 of this chapter;
         (b)   Screening and landscaping in compliance with §
154.071 of this chapter shall be required;
         (c)   Servicing of motor freight vehicles and heavy construction
equipment; directly related accessory materials and parts sales for the repair
and servicing (not including new or used vehicles sales); and accessory
materials and parts warehousing which is related to and dependent upon the
uses; provided that:
            1.   To the extent required by state law and regulations, painting
shall be conducted in an approved paint booth, which thoroughly controls the
emission of fumes, dust or other particulate matter;
            2.   Storage and use of all flammable materials, including liquids
and rags, shall conform to applicable provisions of the state’s Uniform Fire
Code; and
            3.   The storage of damaged vehicles and vehicle parts and
accessory equipment must be completely inside a principal or accessory
building;
         (d)   Off-street parking is provided in compliance with §
154.067 of this chapter.
      (2)   Conditional uses in this district include:
         (a)   Maintenance garages and shops;
         (b)   Contractors offices, shops and accessory uses where there is no
outside storage;
         (c)   Bulk storage of more than 1,000 gallons;
         (d)   Any permitted use under this section, if any proposed building
or structure exceeds 35 in height. A conditional use permit under this section
may only be approved if a development plan is first approved by the Planning
Commission and City Council, and complies in other respects with the
performance requirements of the Light Industrial District. It must be found
that:
            1.   The site is capable of accommodating the increased height;
            2.   The increased height does not cause an increase in traffic
volumes beyond the capacity of the surrounding streets;
            3.   Public utilities and services are adequate;
            4.   For each additional story over three stories, front and side
yard setback requirements shall be increased by 5%; and
            5.   The increased height shall not, in the judgment of the City
Council, be adverse or detrimental to adjacent properties or the general area.
         (e)   Open or outdoor service, sale and rental as a principal or
accessory uses; provided that:
            1.   Outside services, sales and equipment rental is limited to 30%
of the gross floor area of the principal use;
            2.   Outside sales areas are fenced or screened from view of
neighboring residential uses or an abutting R District based upon a plan
approved by the City Council;
            3.   All lighting shall be hooded and so directed that the light
source shall not be visible from the public right-of-way or from neighboring
residences and shall be based upon a plan approved by the City Council;
            4.   The use does not take up required parking space;
            5.   Sales area is grassed or surfaced to control dust; and
            6.   The proposed use shall not, in the judgment of the City
Council, be adverse or detrimental to adjacent properties or the general area.
         (f)   Commercial recreation facilities; provided that:
            1.   The architectural appearance and function plan of the building
and the site shall be designed with a high standard of architectural and
aesthetic compatibility with surrounding properties. Building materials,
orientation, colors, height, roof design, lighting, signage and site
landscaping shall be designed to complement the surrounding industrial
properties and demonstrate potential industrial reuse. All sides of the
principal and accessory structures are to have essentially the same or a
coordinated, harmonious exterior finish treatment;
            2.   A commercial recreational use shall not be located within a
shared tenancy building containing a use classified as an “H” occupancy, as
defined by the state’s Building Code, as may be amended;
            3.   In multiple occupancy buildings, a material safety data sheet
(MSDS) shall be required identifying all materials stored or used in the
operation of the tenant businesses. Any change in building tenants shall
require that the MSDS be updated and provided to all other tenants in the
multi-tenant building;
            4.   A commercial recreational use in a shared tenancy building
shall have its own exterior entrance and exit;
            5.   The site must be accessed via a collector street. Vehicular
access points shall create a minimum of conflict with through traffic movement
and shall be subject to the approval of the City Engineer;
            6.   Adequate off-street parking and off-street loading and shall
be subject to the approval of the City Engineer; and
            7.   The proposed use shall not, in the judgment of the City
Council, be adverse or detrimental to adjacent properties or the general area.
         (g)   Animal kennels; provided that:
            1.   The animal kennel shall be located in a freestanding building;
            2.   The animal kennel shall be located on a lot at least two acres
in size;
            3.   An exercise area at least 100 square feet in size shall be
provided to accommodate the periodic exercising of animals boarded at the
kennel;
            4.   If an outdoor exercise area is provided, it shall be at least
150 square feet in size and shall be restricted to the exercising of one
animal, on leash, under the control of a handler, in the pet exercise area, at
a time;
            5.   Outdoor exercise areas shall be fenced, not less than six feet
in height with an additional two-foot security arm with an internal orientation
set at a 30-degree angle and shall be of sufficient strength to retain kenneled
animals. The fence shall be located in a side or rear yard and shall provide a
complete visual screen from surrounding properties. The fence shall be set back
at least 100 feet from any side or rear property line;
            6.   Outdoor exercise areas must be cleaned at least once a day to
prevent the accumulation of animal wastes and the spread of disease;
            7.   A ventilation system shall be designed so that no odors or
organisms will spread between wards or to the outside air, and will be capable
of completely exchanging internal air at a rate of at least twice per hour. Air
temperature must be maintained between 60°F and 75°F;
            8.   A room separate from the kennel area shall be provided of
sufficient size to adequately separate animals that are sick or injured from
healthy animals;
            9.   Indoor animal kennel floors and walls shall be made of non-
porous materials or sealed concrete to make it non-porous;
            10.   Animal wastes shall be flushed down an existing sanitary
sewer system or enclosed in a container of sufficient construction to eliminate
odors and organisms and shall be properly disposed of at least once a day;
            11.   The appropriate license is obtained from the City Clerk-
Treasurer;
            12.   All State Health Department and State Pollution Control
Agency requirements for the facilities are met; and
            13.   The proposed use shall not, in the judgment of the City
Council, be adverse or detrimental to adjacent properties or the general area.
         (h)   Self-storage facilities.
         (i)   Day care center.
         (j)   Major auto manufactured repair such as a transmission repair,
body work and painting; provided that:
            1.   All servicing of vehicles and equipment shall occur entirely
within the principal structure;
            2.   To the extent required by state law and regulations, painting
shall be conducted in an approved paint booth, which thoroughly controls the
emission of fumes, dust or other particulate matter;
            3.   Storage and use of all flammable materials, including liquids
and rags, shall conform to applicable provisions of the state’s Uniform Fire
Code; and
            4.   The storage of damaged vehicles and vehicle parts and
accessory equipment must be completely inside a principal or accessory
building.
         (k)   Taproom or cocktail room associated with a brewery or
distillery.
   (E)   Lot requirements and setbacks. The following minimum requirements
shall be observed in an LI District:
      (1)   Lot area: 20,000 square feet;
      (2)   Lot width: 100 feet;
      (3)   Setbacks:
         (a)   Front yards: not less than 35 feet, except when across the
street from residentially-zoned property. In such cases, the setback shall be
100 feet. The setback shall contain a berm with trees and shrubs to provide a
buffer between the industrial and residential use. In the case of corner lots,
two front yards will be required;
         (b)   Side yards: not less than ten feet on each side nor less than 35
feet when abutting a public right-of-way. A setback of 100 feet shall be
required when an industrial district abuts a residential district. The setback
shall contain a berm with trees and shrubs to provide a buffer between the
industrial and residential use; and
         (c)   Rear yards: not less than 30 feet.
      (4)   Building height: the following building height requirements shall
apply:
         (a)   No structure shall exceed three stories or 35 feet, whichever is
less, unless a conditional use is approved for the increased height; and
         (b)   No excluded roof equipment or structural element extending
beyond the limited height of a building may occupy more than 25% of the area of
the roof, nor exceed ten feet, unless otherwise noted.
      (5)   Outside storage: outside storage of materials shall be prohibited
in the LI District;
      (6)   Water usage: no use may consume more than 1,300 gallons of water
per acre per day, or as prorated for developments of less than one acre,
without specific authorization of the City Council; and
      (7)   Sewer discharge: if the proposed use requires any sanitary sewer
discharge for industrial (non-human) waste, a sewer discharge plan must be
submitted to the City for evaluation and approval. Industrial sewer discharge
may require pre-treatment, for reduction of BOD, suspended solids or other
minerals or materials, at the industrial site, before discharge into the
Dundas/Northfield sanitary sewer system.
      (8)   Impervious surface maximum: 50%.
   (F)   Interim uses. The following are interim uses in a LI District and
require an interim use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated
by §
154.026 of this chapter: none.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 14; Ord. 2019-01, passed 1-28-2019, §§ 2, 3; Ord.
2020-04, passed 5-11-2020; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-22-2023, § 19)
§ 154.100 GI, GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to allow industrial uses that
have a greater impact on surrounding property than those uses allowed in the
limited industrial district and to prohibit certain industrial uses that have
impacts that are not compatible with surrounding properties in the City.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses in the GI District include:
      (1)   All uses permitted in the LI District;
      (2)   Manufacturing, bulk handling and storage, processing, packaging or
assembly of products and materials such as stone, brick, glass, lime, gypsum,
plaster of paris, glue, size, cloth, batteries (wet cell), ceramic products,
plastics, rubber products, grain, agricultural products, feed, food, flour and
paint (pigment manufacturing). Industrial activities such as mill working,
metal polishing and plating, foundry, vinegar distillation, grain milling,
cement production and all other similar uses as determined by the City’s Zoning
Officer;
      (3)   Agricultural uses limited to raising of crops and forestry;
      (4)   Adult uses as defined and controlled in
Ch. 117 of this code of ordinances;
      (5)   Commercial truck storage and parking;
      (6)   Bulk storage plants and establishments (see the limitation on
storage of liquids under conditional use permits below);
      (7)   Cartage and express facilities;
      (8)   Building materials sales;
      (9)   Transportation terminals; and
      (10)   Industrial, compounding, assembly, packaging, treatment or storage
of products and materials, except waste.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Permitted accessory uses in an GI District are those
incidental repair, retail trade, processing or storage facilities necessary to
conduct a permitted principal use:
      (1)   Buildings and structures for a use accessory to the principal use;
      (2)   Off-street loading;
      (3)   Off-street parking, but not including semi-trailer trucks;
      (4)   Semi-truck parking; and
      (5)   Retail sales of products manufactured on the site shall be allowed
as an accessory use. A maximum of 20% of the floor area of the space occupied
by the manufacturing company may be used for retail sales purposes.
   (D)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Conditional uses in this district are subject to the following
requirements:
         (a)   A conditional use permit is applied for based on procedures set
forth in §
154.022 of this chapter;
         (b)   Screening and landscaping in compliance with §
154.071 of this chapter shall be required; and
         (c)   Off-street parking is provided in compliance with §
154.067 of this chapter.
      (2)   Conditional uses in this district include:
         (a)   All permitted industries listed above which have outside or open
storage of parts, products or fuels;
         (b)   Buildings or structures exceeding 35 feet in height;
         (c)   Advertising signs (subject to §§
154.160 through
154.170 of this chapter);
         (d)   Bulk storage of more than 1,000 gallons of fuel, fertilizer,
agricultural chemicals or agricultural products;
         (e)   Refuse transfer stations; and
         (f)   Creameries.
         (g)   Accessory exterior storage, provided such storage is screened
from all rights-of-way and adjacent non-industrial uses.
   (E)   Prohibited uses. The following uses (or essentially similar uses as
determined by the City Council) shall be prohibited in the GI District:
      (1)   Junkyards;
      (2)   Manufacture of explosives;
      (3)   Petroleum or ethanol refineries;
      (4)   Asphalt plants;
      (5)   Landfills of products other than filling or grading of land with
totally buildable materials to prepare land for development;
      (6)   Sludge disposal;
      (7)   Permanent or temporary storage of hazardous waste as a principal
use;
      (8)   Acid manufacturing;
      (9)   Creosote treatment or manufacture;
      (10)   Rendering plants;
      (11)   Meat packing; and
      (12)   Incinerators of toxic or medical waste.
   (F)   Performance standards. The following minimum requirements shall be
observed in a GI District:
      (1)   Lot area: one acre;
      (2)   Lot width: 200 feet;
      (3)   Setbacks:
         (a)   Front yards: not less than 35 feet, except when across the
street from residentially zoned property. In such cases, the setback shall be
100 feet. The setback shall contain a berm with trees and shrubs to provide a
buffer between the industrial and residential use. In the case of corner lots,
two front yards will be required;
         (b)   Side yards: not less than ten feet on each side, nor less than
35 feet when abutting a public right-of-way. A setback of 100 feet shall be
required when an industrial district abuts a residential district. The setback
shall contain a berm with trees and shrubs to provide a buffer between the
industrial and residential use. In the case of corner lots, two front yards
will be required; and
         (c)   Rear yards: not less than 30 feet.
      (4)   Height: 35 feet, unless a greater height is authorized by
conditional use permit;
      (5)   Water usage: no use may consume more than 1,300 gallons of water
per acre per day, or as prorated for developments of less than one acre,
without specific authorization of the City Council;
      (6)   Sewer discharge: if the proposed use requires any sanitary sewer
discharge for industrial (non-human) waste, a sewer discharge plan must be
submitted to the City for evaluation and approval. Industrial sewer discharge
may require pre-treatment, for reduction of BOD, suspended solids or other
minerals or materials, at the industrial site, before discharge into the
Dundas/Northfield sanitary sewer system; and
      (7)   Outside storage of materials: outside storage areas are permitted
in:
         (a)   Side yards not adjacent to or across the street from residential
districts;
         (b)   Rear yard, except within 50 feet of residential property;
         (c)   Open storage areas shall be screened by walls of buildings or a
screening fence compatible with the principle building and surrounding land
uses. The fence will be at least six feet high and 100% opaque. Gates will be
of the same height and opaqueness as the fence. The height of the fence will be
increased to a height approved by the Planning Commission, to screen materials
of greater height from non-industrial land uses and adjoining public streets.
Fire lanes shall be maintained as determined by the Fire Department; and
         (d)   Outside storage is not permitted between building and street
right-of-way.
      (8)   Impervious surface maximum: 40%.
   (G)   Interim uses. The following are interim uses in a GI District and
require an interim use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated
by §
154.026 of this chapter: mining and extraction.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 15; Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-22-2023, § 20)
§ 154.101 PUD, PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. This overlay district is established to achieve the
coordinated integration of land parcels and large commercial and retail
establishments into the community, as well as appropriate mixes of residential,
commercial and industrial uses. It is recognized that traditional setbacks,
parking, open space requirements, use and subdivision regulations may not
always be appropriate to achieve high quality development. Specifically, the
PUD Overlay District is intended to encourage:
      (1)   Innovations in residential development to provide for greater
variety in tenure, type, design and siting of dwellings, open space and
parking; and to promote conservation and more efficient use of land;
      (2)   More convenience in location of accessory commercial and service
areas;
      (3)   The preservation and enhancement of desirable site characteristics
such as natural topography and geologic features and the prevention of soil
erosion;
      (4)   To allow variation from the provisions of this chapter including
setbacks, height, lot area, width, depth, yards and the like; and
      (5)   A high standard of site and building design for commercial and
retail establishments that integrate well into the community.
   (B)   Authorization. A rezoning to a PUD Overlay District may allow the
following:
      (1)   Variety. Within a comprehensive site design concept, a mixture of
land uses, housing types and densities;
      (2)   Sensitivity. Through the departure from the strict application of
required setbacks, yard areas, lot sizes, minimum house sizes, minimum
requirements and other performance standards associated with traditional
zoning, a PUD can maximize the development potential of land while remaining
sensitive to its unique and valuable natural characteristics;
      (3)   Efficiency. The consolidation of areas for recreation and
reductions in street lengths and other utility-related expenses;
      (4)   Flexibility. The project may be granted flexibility from the strict
zoning standards of this chapter to promote a desirable and creative
environment that might be prevented through the strict application of zoning
and subdivision regulations of the city.
      (5)   Density transfer. The project density may be clustered, basing
density on a number of units per acre in place of specific lot dimensions; and
      (6)   District integration. The combination of uses that are allowed in
separate zoning districts such as:
         (a)   Mixed residential uses to allow both densities and unit types to
be varied within the project;
         (b)   Mixed residential uses with increased density based upon the
greater sensitivity of PUD projects to regulation; and
         (c)   Mixed land uses with the integration of compatible land uses
within the project.
   (C)   Approval standards. The city shall consider a proposed PUD Overlay
District against the following standards:
      (1)   The PUD provides a development pattern in harmony with the
objectives of the Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   The PUD is designed in accordance with the design guidelines in §§
154.115 through
154.128 of this chapter.
      (3)   The PUD prioritizes the conservation of woodlands, wetlands, other
natural features, where applicable.
      (4)   The PUD does not conflict with the protection of health, safety and
welfare of the community.
      (5)   The location of the buildings, parking areas, and other features is
compatible with respect to the topography of the area and existing natural
features such as streams, bluffs and woodlands.
      (6)   The proposed layout of parking, internal streets and driveways is
efficient, adequate, and safe.
      (7)   There are adequate green areas and/or open space in appropriate
locations; and the adequacy and location of green areas.
      (8)   The city finds that the use of PUD zoning for this project achieves
the city's land use objectives in a manner equal or superior to the use of
conventional zoning.
   (D)   Approval standards for NRSF District.
      (1)   This purpose of this section is intended to encourage creative site
design for the conservation of land and provision of other public benefits
through density incentives and by allowing deviation from the strict provisions
of this chapter related to setbacks, heights, lot area, width, depth and yards.
Density incentives are provided to owners and developers of all land in the
Natural Resource Single-Family Residential District regardless of size. Density
incentives are offered in exchange for public benefits that achieve
Comprehensive Plan goals for open space, habitat and rural character
protection, low impact storm water design, trails, high quality housing and use
of public sewer and water service by:
         (a)   Defining in quantified terms the significant public benefits
that can be used to earn density incentives;
         (b)   Providing rules and formulas for guiding the calculation of
density incentives earned by each benefit;
         (c)   Preserving land for wildlife habitat and unique natural
resources and reducing negative impacts on the environment;
         (d)   Designing land efficiently resulting in smaller networks of
utilities and streets thereby lowering development costs and public
investments;
         (e)   Creating common open space that provides a unified landscape for
the use and enjoyment of the neighborhood community and/or the general public;
and
         (f)   Providing a review process to allow evaluation of proposed
density increases and the public benefits offered to earn them, and to give the
public opportunities to review and comment.
      (2)   The density incentive system is described and defined as follows:
         (a)   The density incentive is expressed as additional dwelling or
bonus units (BU) earned per specified amount of public benefit provided;
         (b)   Bonus units may be earned through any combination of the listed
public benefits or amenities;
         (c)   Through the review process, public benefits and bonus units not
identified in this section may be proposed by either the developer or the City;
and
         (d)   The awarding of bonus units for each proposed public benefit
shall be guided by the following framework. The applicant, Planning Commission,
City Council and staff may suggest other award levels for benefits that are in
keeping with the overall purpose of this section. The City Council shall award
the bonus units based on its evaluation of the entire PUD proposal. Based on
this evaluation, the Council may deviate from the following framework at its
discretion. In its evaluation of each project, the City will consider the
capacity of the land to handle increased densities. The City may determine that
the land cannot support the proposed densities due to physical limitations or
potential negative impacts which may include, but are not limited to: soils;
slope; loss of vegetation; drainage; habitat; sewer capacity; and traffic.
Bonus Density Incentive Framework
Public Benefit or Amenity Qualifying Condition Bonus Unit (BU)
Bonus Density Incentive Framework
Public
Benefit or    Qualifying Condition                                                           Bonus Unit (BU)
Amenity
Accessible    20% of homes in project achieve a performance level of “bronze” for accessiBonus units are awarded per allowable unit at base density for the following
design        design as defined and updated by the City                                      performance tiers: .25 bonus units “bronze”; .50 bonus units “silver”; .75 bonus
                                                                                             units “gold”
Dedication of
active or
passive
recreation
public open   Dedication of land or granting a permanent easement for land containing public
space or      open space to the City (or designee) meeting the City’s standards for open   .5 BU per acre of buildable land exceeding the 10% park dedication requirement
corridor      space
contributing
to the rural
character of
the City
                                                                                             .5 - .8 BU per acre of park depending on the amount and quality of improvements.
Improved park Improvements to a dedicated public park site                                   Bonus units earned shall be in addition to bonus units earned by dedication of raw
                                                                                             land
Improved      Improvement to a dedicated corridor land segment meeting City multi-purpose    .3 - .8 BU per quarter-mile of trail constructed depending on level and quality of
trail         trail standards                                                                improvements
LEED
(leadership
in energy
efficient
design)       All homes in project achieve U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) LEED          Bonus units are awarded per allowable unit at base density for each LEED performance
certification certification as defined and updated by USGBC                                  tier: .25 bonus units “certified”; .50 bonus units “silver”; .75 bonus units “gold”;
of                                                                                           1.0 bonus units “platinum”
residential
houses built
in
subdivisions
Low impact
design storm  The implementation low impact design storm water systems that retain and       2 BU per allowable unit at base density for runoff volume no greater than
water         infiltrate annual runoff volumes on-site to that of predevelopment conditions  predevelopment natural vegetative conditions
management    with natural vegetation
systems
Other benefit Developer or City proposed benefits not listed above                           Bonus units assigned through staff recommendation and Commission and Council review
                                                                                             and approval
Tree          Preservation of 70% or more of tree canopy within developed area (lots,        1 BU per allowable unit at base density if 70-75% of canopy preserved; 2 BU per
preservation  streets, storm water management and the like. At least 50% of developed area   allowable unit at base density if 75-80% of canopy preserved; 3 BU per allowable
              must be covered by tree canopy to qualify                                      unit at base density if over 80% of canopy preserved
 
      (3)   The rules for determining total permitted dwelling units are
defined as follows.
         (a)   The formula for calculating the total number of dwelling units
(DW) permitted through the review process shall be:
Dwelling Units allowed at base density + Bonus Units (Bu) = Total Dwelling
Units
         (b)   The dwelling units allowed at base density is determined by
dividing the total buildable area (acres) of the project site by the minimum
lot size allowed in the base zoning district. Buildable area excludes slopes of
12% or greater, wetlands, poor soils and resources identified to be protected
in the Comprehensive Plan.
         (c)   The bonus units for each public benefit shall be calculated
individually and rounded to the nearest tenth. In summing the bonus units for
more than one public benefit, fractional numbers shall be added together and
rounded to the nearest whole number; one-half or more dwelling units are
rounded up.
         (d)   The total number of dwelling units may not exceed a gross
maximum density of two units per buildable acre. Higher maximum densities may
be allowed based on demonstrated land development capacity, environmental
impact, impact on adjacent properties and transportation system as well as
available capacity of City sewer and water service.
      (4)   All properties, regardless of size, in the NRSF District are
subject to this division (D), which creates a PUD Overlay District to encourage
density incentives within said districts.
   (E)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   The PUD development plan shall identify all the proposed land uses.
A majority of the uses within a PUD should be those allowed in the underlying
zoning district. Additional uses in the PUD District may be allowed; provided,
they are compatible with the permitted uses normally allowed in the district
and consistent with the comprehensive plan.
      (2)   Any change in the uses presented in the final development plan will
be considered an amendment to the PUD and must follow the procedures specified
in this section.
   (F)   Provisions of original district. The provisions of the zoning district
within which the PUD is established shall guide preparation of a PUD, except as
otherwise provided in approval of the final development plan. Every PUD shall
have an underlying zoning district.
   (G)   Coordination with subdivision regulations. If a PUD involves the
subdivision of land, then a subdivision review shall be carried out
simultaneously with the review of the PUD. The plans required under this
section shall be submitted in a form that will satisfy the requirements for a
sketch/concept plan, preliminary plat and final plat.
   (H)   Application conference. Prior to filing of an application for a PUD,
the developer may arrange for and attend a conference with the Zoning
Administrator, and City Engineer. The primary purpose of the conference shall
be to provide the developer with an opportunity to gather information and
obtain guidance as to the general suitability of developer's proposal for the
area for which it is proposed, and its conformity to the provisions of this
section, before incurring substantial expense in the preparation of plans,
surveys and other data.
   (I)   Sketch/concept plan. The sketch plan provides an opportunity for an
applicant to submit an informal plan to the City. Twenty copies and one
electronic file shall be submitted, showing the applicant’s basic intent and
general nature of the development. The sketch plan is intended to provide
feedback from the Planning Commission before the applicant incurs substantial
cost in the preparation of formal plans. The sketch plan shall be considered a
partial, incomplete application prior to formal submittal of the complete
application and scheduling of hearings.
   (J)   Preliminary development plan. The purpose of a preliminary development
plan is to formally present a PUD application, and a preliminary plat
application if subdivision of land is a part of the PUD, in a public hearing
before the Planning Commission. The application shall include 20 copies and one
electronic file of the preliminary development plan, including all of the
following exhibits, analyses and plans:
      (1)   Preliminary plat for any land being subdivided;
      (2)   The landowner's name and address and the landowner's interest in
the property;
      (3)   The developer's name and address if different from the landowner;
      (4)   The names and addresses of all professional consultants who have
contributed to the development of the PUD plan being submitted, including
attorney, land planner, engineer and surveyor;
      (5)   Evidence that the developer has sufficient control over the
property to effectuate the proposed PUD, including a statement of all legal,
beneficial, tenancy and contractual interests held in or affecting the property
and including an up-to-date certified abstract of title or registered property
report and other evidence as the City Attorney may require to show the status
of title or control of the property;
      (6)   The address and legal description of the property;
      (7)   The existing zoning classification and present use of the property
and all lands within 300 feet of the property;
      (8)   A map depicting the existing development of the property and all
land within 300 feet thereof and indicating the location of existing streets,
property lines, easements, water mains and storm and sanitary sewers, with
invert elevations on and within 100 feet of the property;
      (9)   A written statement generally describing the proposed PUD and the
market which it is intended to serve and its demand showing its relationship to
the city's comprehensive plan and how the proposed pud is to be designed,
arranged and operated in order to permit the development and use of neighboring
property in accordance with the applicable regulations of the city;
      (10)   Overall maximum PUD density;
      (11)   Location of all streets and pedestrian ways;
      (12)   Location and extent of public and private open space;
      (13)   Location of residential and non-residential land uses with
approximate type of intensities of development;
      (14)   Staging and time schedule of development;
      (15)   A traffic generation and routing analysis prepared by a licensed
professional;
      (16)   Graphic reproductions of the existing site conditions at a scale
of not less than one inch equals 100 feet including:
         (a)   Grading plan with contours, minimum two-foot intervals;
         (b)   Area devoted to residential use by building type;
         (c)   Area devoted to private open space;
         (d)   Area devoted to public open space;
         (e)   Area devoted to streets;
         (f)   Area devoted to, and number of, off-street parking;
         (g)   Parking and loading spaces and related access;
         (h)   Approximate area and floor area devoted to commercial uses;
         (i)   Approximate area and floor area devoted to industrial or office
use; and
         (j)   Total area of the property.
      (17)   When the PUD is to be constructed in stages during a period of
time extending beyond a single construction season, a schedule for the
development of such stages or units shall be submitted stating the approximate
beginning and completion date for each stage or unit and the proportion of the
total PUD public or common open space and dwelling units to be provided or
constructed during each stage and overall chronology of development to be
followed from stage to stage;
      (18)   When the proposed PUD includes provisions for public or common
open space or service facilities, a statement describing the provision that is
to be made for the care and maintenance of the open space or service
facilities;
      (19)   Any restrictive covenants that are to be recorded with respect to
property included in the proposed PUD;
      (20)   A complete plan set as described in § 154.042 of this chapter
including, but not limited to, architectural plans; and
      (21)   The city may require the submission of any additional information
or documentation that it may find necessary.
   (K)   Exceptions to submittal requirements. The City may excuse a developer
from submitting any specific item of information or document required in this
stage that it finds to be unnecessary to the consideration of the specific
proposal.
   (L)   Schedule for city review of the preliminary development plan.
      (1)   Pursuant to the requirements of M.S. § 15.99, after verification by
the Zoning Administrator that the required plan and supporting data is
adequate, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing. The city's
planning application schedule provides specific deadlines for the application
process.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall conduct the hearing and report its
findings and make recommendations to the City Council.
      (3)   The city may request additional information from the developer
concerning operational factors or retain expert testimony at the expense of the
developer concerning operational factors.
      (4)   If the Planning Commission fails to take action on the matter on or
before a date 60 days after the application is deemed adequate, then the City
Council may proceed without the Planning Commission's recommendation.
   (M)   Final development plan. Following approval of the preliminary
development plan, the applicant shall submit an application for the final
development plan, and a final plat if subdivision of land is a part of the PUD.
If appropriate, because of the limited scale of the proposal, the Zoning
Administrator may permit the preliminary development plan and final development
plan to proceed through the review and approval processes simultaneously. In
cases where the final plan is reviewed separately, the plan shall be submitted
to the City Council for consideration. Provided the final plan is consistent
with the approved preliminary plan, the Council may approve the request.
   (N)   Final development plan submission requirements. The final development
plan submission should depict and outline the proposed implementations of the
preliminary development plan for the PUD. Information from the preliminary
development plan may be included for background and to provide a basis for the
submitted plan. The final development plan submissions shall include, but not
be limited to:
      (1)   A final plat for any land to be subdivided and information required
by this code;
      (2)   Twenty sets of final plans, including one electronic file, drawn to
a scale of not less than one inch equals 100 feet (or other scale requested by
the City Engineer) containing at least the following information:
         (a)   Proposed name of the development, which shall not duplicate nor
be similar in pronunciation to the name of any plat previously recorded in the
county;
         (b)   Property boundary lines and dimensions of the property and any
significant topographical or physical features of the property;
         (c)   The location, size use and arrangement including height in
stories and feet and total square feet of ground area coverage and floor area
of proposed buildings, including manufactured homes, and existing buildings
which will remain, if any;
         (d)   Location, dimensions of all driveways, entrances, curb cuts,
parking stalls, loading spaces and access aisles, and all other circulation
elements including bike and pedestrian; and the total site coverage of all
circulation elements;
         (e)   Location, designation and total area of all public and private
open space;
         (f)   Location, designation and total area proposed to be conveyed or
dedicated for public open space, including parks, playgrounds, school sites and
recreational facilities;
         (g)   Proposed lots and blocks, if any, and numbering system;
         (h)   The location use and size of structures and other land uses on
adjacent properties;
         (i)   Detailed sketches and provisions of proposed landscaping;
         (j)   General grading and drainage plans for the developed PUD; and
         (k)   Any other information that may have been required by the
Planning Commission, or other affected agency, in conjunction with the approval
of the preliminary development plan.
      (3)   An accurate legal description of the entire area within the PUD for
which final development plan approval is sought;
      (4)   A tabulation indicating the number of residential dwelling units,
expected population and traffic generation;
      (5)   A tabulation indicating the number of non-residential uses and
expected traffic generation;
      (6)   Preliminary architectural “typical” plans indicating use, floor,
plan, elevations and exterior wall finishes of proposed building, including
manufactured homes;
      (7)   A detailed site plan, suitable for recording, showing the physical
layout, design and purpose of all streets, easements, rights-of-way, utility
lines and facilities, lots, blocks, public and common open space, general
landscaping plan, structures, including manufactured homes, and uses;
      (8)   Preliminary grading and site alteration plan illustrating changes
to existing topography and natural site vegetation. The final development plan
should clearly reflect the site treatment and its conformance with the approved
preliminary development plan;
      (9)   A final plat prepared in accordance with this chapter if land is
being subdivided; and
      (10)   A soil erosion control plan acceptable to watershed districts,
Department of Natural Resources, Soil Conservation Service, MPCA or any other
agency with review authority clearly illustrating erosion control measures to
be used during construction and as permanent measures.
   (O)   Ordinance approval procedures and recording. The City Council shall
adopt an ordinance approving all PUD Overlay Districts concurrent with any
approval of a preliminary plan. Approval shall follow the same requirements as
the approval of a zoning map amendment. After approval by the City Council, the
PUD zoning ordinance map amendment shall be published, with reference made to
the PUD agreement text.
   (P)   Effective date. The effective date of the PUD shall be after:
      (1)   Approval of the PUD overlay ordinance and text, the final
development plan documents and the developers agreement and its requirements;
and
      (2)   Publication of the ordinance.
   (Q)   Procedures for post approval changes, revisions and/or changes to
plans between final approval and construction.
      (1)   Minor changes in location, placement and height. Minor changes in
the location, placement and height of structures may be authorized by the
Zoning Administrator if required by engineering or other circumstances not
foreseen at the time the final plan was approved and filed with the Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)   Significant changes in use location size and height. Changes in
uses, significant changes in location, size or height of structures, any
rearrangement of lots, blocks and building tracts, changes in provision of
common open spaces and all other changes to the approved final development plan
may be made only after a public hearing conducted by the Planning Commission.
Upon determination by the Zoning Administrator that a major change has been
proposed, the developer shall apply for an amended PUD. The application to
amend the PUD shall be treated as a new zoning application. Upon acceptance of
a complete application, the Planning Commission shall hold a hearing as set
forth in this code. Any changes shall be recorded as amendments to the recorded
copy of the final development plan, and shall include an amended developers
agreement, as appropriate.
   (R)   Construction progress. If substantial development has not occurred as
established by the PUD agreement, the City Council may instruct the Planning
Commission to initiate rezoning to the original zoning district. It shall not
be necessary for the City Council to find that the rezoning was in error.
   (S)   Compliance with conditions of approval. Within the PUD agreement, the
City may schedule formal City Council review periods on an annual or less
frequent basis to ascertain that actual development on the site meets the
conditions of the approved PUD.
   (T)   Phasing and guarantee of performance.
      (1)   Comparison with approved development schedule. The Planning
Commission shall compare the actual development accomplished in the various
portions of the PUD with the approved development schedule.
      (2)   Extension of limits of development schedule. Upon recommendation of
the Planning Commission and for good cause shown by the developer, the City
Council may extend the limits of the development schedule.
      (3)   Construction rates of dwelling and open space. The construction and
provision of all of the common open space and public and recreational
facilities that are shown on the final development plan must proceed at the
same rate as the construction of dwelling units, if any. The Zoning
Administrator shall review all of the building permits issued for the PUD and
examine the construction that has taken place on the site. If it is found that
the rate of construction of dwelling units is greater than the rate at which
common open spaces and public and recreational facilities have been constructed
and provided, the Zoning Administrator shall forward this information to the
City Council for action.
      (4)   Security. A irrevocable letter of credit in form acceptable to the
City shall be required to guarantee performance by the developer. The amount of
the letter of credit and the specific elements of the development program that
it is intended to guarantee will be stipulated in the PUD agreement.
   (U)   Control of PUD following completion.
      (1)   Final development plan governs. After a certificate of occupancy
has been issued for all or any portion of a PUD, the use of the land covered by
the certificate of occupancy and the construction, modification and alteration
of any buildings or structures within the PUD shall be governed by the final
development plan.
      (2)   Changes after issuance of certificate of occupancy. After a
certificate of occupancy has been issued for all or any portion of a PUD, no
changes shall be made in the approved final development plan, except upon
application as provided below.
         (a)   Any minor extensions, alterations or modifications of existing
buildings or structures may be authorized by the Zoning Administrator if they
are consistent with the purposes and intent of the final development plan. No
change authorized by this section may increase the mass or volume of any
building or structure by more than 10%.
         (b)   Any building or structure that is totally or substantially
destroyed may be reconstructed only in compliance with the final development
plan unless an amendment to the final development plan is approved under this
section.
      (3)   Changes by amendment. Changes in the use of the common open spaces
may be authorized by an amendment to the final development plan by the City’s
Planning Commission after a public hearing as provided in this chapter and
without all the documents necessary for the original application.
      (4)   Other changes. Any other changes in the final development plan must
be authorized by an amendment of the final development plan under this section.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 16; Ord. 2019-07, passed 10-14-2019, §§ 1-6; Ord.
2023-03, passed 5-22-2023, § 21)
§ 154.102 CANNON RECREATIONAL RIVER DISTRICT OVERLAY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section of the zoning code is to regulate
development within the Cannon Recreational River District as required by M.S.
§§ 104.31 through 104.40, as they may be amended from time to time, Minn. Rules
part 6105 and the Cannon River Management Plan (Minn. Rules parts 6105.1550
through 6105.1700).
   (B)   Scope, interpretation and application.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all lands located
within 300 feet of the banks of the Cannon River, within the corporate limits
of the City, in accordance with the Land Use District descriptions of Minn.
Rules part 6105.1680.
      (2)   The provisions of this chapter shall be interpreted to be minimum
requirements. Where definition of any of the terms of this chapter are in
dispute, the definitions of Minn. Rules parts 6105.0040 and 6105.2500 shall be
controlling.
      (3)   The provisions of Minn. Regs. NV 82-84 and NV 78-81 shall apply
within the Cannon Recreational River District as specified in the Cannon River
Management Plan (6 MCAR § 1.2900). Where the provisions of this chapter or any
other ordinance are in conflict with the above mentioned regulations, the
regulations shall take precedence. Copies of the aforementioned regulations
shall be kept on file with the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
      (4)   The provisions of this chapter shall be considered as an overlay-
type district. All provisions of any underlying zoning district which are
required by other zoning ordinances shall remain in effect unless superseded by
a more restrictive provision contained in this chapter.
   (C)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses in the overlay district include:
      (1)   Public recreational uses; and
      (2)   All permitted uses allowed in the underlying zoning district,
unless listed as a conditional or prohibited use in this chapter.
   (D)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   All uses considered conditional uses in the underlying zoning
district shall be considered conditional uses under this chapter, unless
prohibited by this or other applicable ordinances.
      (2)   Private campgrounds (subject to the conditions of Minn. Rules parts
6105.1630 through 6130.1670);
      (3)   Other private open space uses (subject to the conditions of Minn.
Rules parts 6105.1610 et seq.);
      (4)   Utility transmission lines (subject to the conditions of Minn.
Rules part 6105.0170 and 6105.0180);
      (5)   Public roads (subject to the conditions of Minn. Rules 6105.0190);
      (6)   Canoe rental establishments (subject to the conditions of Minn.
Rules part 6105.1610); and
      (7)   Sand and gravel extraction (subject to the conditions of Minn.
Rules 6105.1610, subp. 5).
   (E)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Inner tube rental establishments;
      (2)   Commercial manufacturing of sand and gravel by-products; and
      (3)   Any other uses not listed as permitted or conditional in this
chapter or the underlying zoning district.
   (F)   District provisions.
      (1)   The following standards for general development waters shall apply
to all lands located on the N1/2 of the N1/2 of Section 15 and in Section 10 of
T111N, R20W, that are within 300 feet of the ordinary high water mark (bank) of
the Cannon River. The following standards for natural environment waters shall
apply to all lands located in the S1/2 of the N1/2 of Section 15 and Section 11
of T111N R20W, that are within 300 feet of the ordinary high water mark (bank)
of the Cannon River.
      (2)   Dimensional standards:
 Natural Environment Waters General Environment Waters
                          Natural Environment Waters General Environment Waters
                         S1/2 of N1/2 of Sec. 15    N1/2 of N1/2 of Sec. 15
                          and Sec. 11, T111N, R20W   and Sec. 10, T111N, R20W
Building height           35 feet                    35 feet
limitation*
Building setback from     200 feet                   75 feet
ordinary high water mark
Building setback from     50 feet (federal, state or 20 feet (municipal or
roads and highways        county)                    private)
Lot area                  80,000 square feet         20,000 square feet
Sewage system setback
from ordinary high water  150 feet                   50 feet
mark
Sewage system elevation
above highest ground      3 feet                     3 feet
water level or bedrock
Sewered Areas: All provisions for unsewered areas shall apply to sewered areas,
except for the following, which shall supersede the provisions applied to
unsewered areas:
   Lot area waterfront 40,000 square feet 20,000  15,000 square feet 10,000
lots                      square feet                square feet
   Other lots
Building setback from     150 feet                   50 feet
ordinary high water mark
Water frontage and lot    125 feet                   75 feet
width at building line
NOTES TO TABLE:
* Does not apply to buildings used for agricultural purposes.
 
         (a)   Between the ordinary high water mark (bank) and the applicable
building setback line, clear cutting of trees over four inches in diameter
shall be prohibited. Clear cutting landward of the setback lines shall be
limited to the minimum necessary to accommodate permitted or conditional uses.
         (b)   Grading and filling in of the natural topography shall require a
grading and filling permit from the Zoning Administrator prior to initiation of
any such work. Such a permit may be issued if the conditions of Minn. Rules
part 6105.0160 and part 6120.3300, subp. 4 are satisfied.
         (c)   No land shall be subdivided which is determined by the City or
the Commissioner of Natural Resources to be unsuitable by reason of flooding,
inadequate drainage, soil and rock formations with severe limitations for
development, severe erosion potential, unfavorable topography, inadequate water
supply or sewage treatment capabilities or any other features likely to be
harmful to the health, safety or welfare of the future residents of the
proposed subdivision or the community. Soil percolation rate tests and soil
borings shall be required in any proposed subdivision within the Cannon River
District, to establish the suitability of the land for development. The testing
is required before any final plat may be approved, but may be waived by the
Zoning Administrator when adequate data is already available.
         (d)   Planned unit developments may be allowed in this district if
preliminary plans are first approved by the Commissioner of Natural Resources.
Lot size, setbacks and structure height requirements may be varied for a
planned unit development in accordance with state regulation.
         (e)   When land in the Cannon River Recreational district is annexed,
incorporated or in any other way transferred to another jurisdiction, a
moratorium shall exist on all subdivision platting, building permits,
construction, grading and filling and vegetative cutting until the City adopts
zoning for that land. The zoning shall meet the provisions of these rules that
applied to the land before the transfer. This provision does not apply to work
for which lawful permits were previously issued.
         (f)   No structures shall be placed in the floodway of the Cannon
River. Structures may be placed outside of the floodway; provided that, they
are elevated above the level of the 100-year flood, in accordance with Minn.
Rules part 6120.5000 et seq. or any ordinance adopted pursuant to M.S. §
104.04, as it may be amended from time to time.
         (g)   No structure shall be placed on land that slopes over 13% unless
the conditions of Minn. Rules part 6120.3300 are fully met.
   (G)   Sanitary standards.
      (1)   No person, firm or corporation shall install, alter, repair or
extend an individual sewer treatment system without first obtaining a permit
for such action from the Zoning Administrator or other person designated by the
City Council.
      (2)   No permit to install, alter, repair or extend an individual sewer
treatment system shall be issued where public collection and treatment
facilities are available and feasible.
      (3)   All individual sewer treatment systems shall be installed in
conformance with the requirements of this chapter and the state’s Individual
Sewage Treatment Systems Standards (Minn. Rules parts 7080.1050 et seq.), which
is hereby adopted as part of this chapter. A copy of these standards shall be
on file in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (H)   Non-conforming uses. Non-conforming sanitary systems: see §
154.025 of this chapter.
   (I)   Administration.
      (1)   Permits are required for building, moving or altering a structure;
grading and filling of land; and for individual sewage systems installation,
alteration or repair within the Cannon Recreational River District.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall send copies of all notices of
hearings or meetings and final decisions relating to plats, variances,
ordinance, amendments, planned unit developments and conditional use permits
affecting any land within this district to the appropriate DNR office at least
ten days prior to the hearing and within ten days of the final action. Final
decisions on variances and ordinance amendments shall not become effective
until certified by the DNR, in accordance with Minn. Rules part 6105.0040.
      (3)   Variances and zoning amendments to the ordinance are subject to the
definition, administrative requirements and conditions of Minn. Rules part
6105.0040.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 17)
§ 154.103 FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statutory authorization, findings of fact and purpose.
      (1)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the state has, in M.S.
Ch. 103F and 462, as they may be amended from time to time, delegated the
responsibility to local government units to adopt regulations designed to
minimize flood losses.
      (2)   Findings of fact.
         (a)   General. The flood hazard areas of City are subject to periodic
inundation which results in potential loss of property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures or flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax base, all
of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
         (b)   Methods used to analyze flood hazards. This section is based
upon a reasonable method of analyzing flood hazards which is consistent with
the standards established by the state’s Department of Natural Resources.
         (c)   National flood insurance program compliance. This section is
adopted to comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program codified as 44 C.F.R. parts 59 through 78, as amended, so as
to maintain the City’s eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program.
      (3)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this section to promote
the public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize those losses
described in division (A)(2)(a) above by provisions contained herein.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Lands to which chapter applies. This section shall apply to all
lands within the jurisdiction of the City shown on the official zoning map and/
or the attachments thereto as being located within the boundaries of the
Floodway or Flood Fringe Districts. General Floodplain Districts or the area
subject to the provisions of division (C)(1)(d) below.
      (2)   Establishment of official zoning map. The official zoning map
together with all materials attached thereto is hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this section. The attached material shall include the
Flood Insurance Study for Rice County, Minnesota, and Incorporated Areas and
Flood Insurance Rate Map panels therein numbered 27131C0154D, 27131C0162D,
27131C0165D and 27131C0170D, all dated 4-3-2012, and prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The official zoning map shall be on file in the
office of the City Administrator/Clerk/Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   Interpretation.
         (a)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
section shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the City and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal
of any other powers granted by state statutes.
         (b)   The boundaries of the zoning districts shall be determined by
scaling distances on the official zoning map. Where interpretation is needed as
to the exact location of the boundaries of the district as shown on the
official zoning map, as for example where there appears to be a conflict
between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions and there is a formal
appeal of the decision of the Zoning Administrator, the Board of Adjustment
shall make the necessary interpretation. All decisions will be based on
elevations on the regional (100-year) flood profile, the ground elevations that
existed on the site at the time the City adopted its initial floodplain
ordinance or on the date of the first National Flood Insurance Program map
showing the area within the 100-year floodplain, if earlier, and other
available technical data. Persons contesting the location of the district
boundaries shall be given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the
Board and to submit technical evidence.
      (4)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended by this
section to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this section imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this section shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent
with this section are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
      (5)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. This section does not imply
that areas outside the floodplain districts or land uses permitted within these
districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. This section shall not
create liability on the part of City or any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
      (6)   Severability. If any division, clause, provision or portion of this
section is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this section shall not be affected thereby.
      (7)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with,
and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
         BASEMENT. Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its
floor or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless of
the depth of excavation below ground level.
         CONDITIONAL USE. A specific type of structure or land use listed in
the official control that may be allowed, but only after an in-depth review
procedure and with appropriate conditions or restrictions as provided in the
official zoning controls or Building Codes and upon a finding that:
            1.   Certain conditions as detailed in the zoning ordinance exist;
and
            2.   The structure and/or land use conforms to the comprehensive
land use plan, if one, and is compatible with the existing neighborhood.
         EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location of
floodway boundaries so that floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
         FLOOD. A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream or in the
stage of a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry
areas.
         FLOOD FREQUENCY. The frequency for which it is expected that a
specific flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
         FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway.
FLOOD FRINGE is synonymous with the term FLOODWAY FRINGE used in the Flood
Insurance Study for Rice County, Minnesota, and Incorporated Areas.
         FLOOD-PROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding, primarily for the
reduction or elimination of flood damages.
         FLOODPLAIN. The beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional flood.
         FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a
watercourse and those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably
required to carry or store the regional flood discharge.
         LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR.
         MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include the term “recreational vehicle”.
         OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile,
abutment, projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building,
wire, fence, stockpile refuse, fill, structure or matter in, along, across or
projecting into any channel, watercourse or regulatory floodplain which may
impede, retard or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself
or by catching or collecting debris carried by the water.
         PRINCIPAL USE OR STRUCTURE. All uses or structures that are not
accessory uses or structures.
         REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment
of a stream or river influenced by a natural or human-made obstruction. In an
urban area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive bridge
crossings would most typically constitute a REACH.
         RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is built on a single chassis, is
400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection, is
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck, and
is designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use. For the
purposes of this chapter, the term RECREATIONAL VEHICLE shall be synonymous
with the term TRAVEL TRAILER/TRAVEL VEHICLE.
         REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known
to have occurred generally in the state and reasonably characteristic of what
can be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 100-
year recurrence interval. REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the term BASE FLOOD
used in a flood insurance study.
         REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. An elevation no lower than one
foot above the elevation of the regional flood plus any increases in flood
elevation caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from
designation of a floodway.
         STRUCTURE. Any thing constructed or erected on the ground or attached
to the ground or on-site utilities, including, but not limited to, buildings,
factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins, manufactured homes, recreational
vehicles not meeting the exemption criteria specified in division (I)(3)(a)
below and other similar items.
         SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure
where the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would
equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
         SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Within any consecutive 365-day period, any
reconstruction, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance and repair),
repair after damage, addition or other improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the
“start of construction” of the improvement. This term includes structures that
have incurred “substantial damage”, regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The term does not, however, include either:
            1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
            2.   Any alteration of an “historic structure”; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an
“historic structure”. For the purpose of this chapter, “historic structure”
shall be as defined in 44 C.F.R. § 59.1.
         VARIANCE. A modification of a specific permitted development standard
required in an official control including this chapter to allow an alternative
development standard not stated as acceptable in the official control, but only
as applied to a particular property for the purpose of alleviating a hardship,
practical difficulty or unique circumstance as defined and elaborated upon in a
City’s respective planning and zoning enabling legislation.
      (8)   Annexations. The Flood Insurance Rate Map panels adopted by
reference into division (B)(2) above may include floodplain areas that lie
outside of the corporate boundaries of the City at the time of adoption of this
chapter. If any of these floodplain land areas are annexed into the City after
the date of adoption of this chapter, the newly annexed floodplain lands shall
be subject to the provisions of this chapter immediately upon the date of
annexation into the City.
   (C)   Establishment of zoning districts.
      (1)   Districts.
         (a)   Floodway District. The Floodway District shall include those
areas designated as floodway on the Flood Insurance Rate Map adopted in
division (B)(2) above.
         (b)   Flood Fringe District. The Flood Fringe District shall include
those areas designated as floodway fringe. The Flood Fringe District shall
include those areas shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map as adopted in
division (B)(2) above.
         (c)   General Floodplain District. The General Floodplain District
shall include those areas designated as Zone A or Zones AE without a floodway
on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps adopted in division (B)(2) above.
         (d)   Restrictions. The following restrictions shall apply to land
which is not located within the Floodway District or the Flood Fringe District,
as designated on the official zoning map adopted in division (B)(2) above, but
are subject to the requirements of the Letter of Map Revision (LOMR), effective
on 12-18-2001.
            1.   No new structure shall be used and no structure shall be
located, extended, converted or structurally altered within the following
described area, unless the lowest floor level is at an elevation of at least
924.5 feet (NGVD1929): the Dundas Commercial Park Second Addition, lying south
of Hester Street.
            2.   No new structure shall be used and no structure shall be
located, extended, converted or structurally altered within the following
described area, unless the lowest floor level is at a minimum elevation of
922.0 feet (NGVD1929): all that part of the Dundas Commercial Park Addition
lying north of Hester Street; Lots 1 through 16, Block 5, Dundas 1st Addition;
and that land lying westerly of the Dundas Commercial Park Addition identified
as tax Parcel 1711350004 (aka Schilling Park).
            3.   All structures constructed in the areas described in divisions
(C)(1)(d)1. and (C)(1)(d)2. above shall be subject to “as-built” requirements
of this chapter set forth in divisions (C)(2)(c) and (J)(2) below.
      (2)   Compliance. No new structure or land shall hereafter be used and no
structure shall be constructed, located, extended, converted or structurally
altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this
chapter.
Within the Floodway and Flood Fringe and General Floodplain Districts, all uses
not listed as permitted uses or conditional uses in divisions (D), (E) and (F)
below that follow, respectively, shall be prohibited. In addition, a caution is
provided here that:
         (a)   New manufactured homes, replacement manufactured homes and
certain travel trailers and travel vehicles are subject to the general
provisions of this chapter and, specifically, division (I) below;
         (b)   Modifications, additions, structural alterations, normal
maintenance and repair, or repair after damage to existing non-conforming
structures and non-conforming uses of structures or land are regulated by the
general provisions of this chapter and specifically division (K) below; and
         (c)   As-built elevations for elevated or flood-proofed structures
must be certified by ground surveys and flood-proofing techniques must be
designed and certified by a registered professional engineer or architect as
specified in the general provisions of this chapter and specifically as stated
in division (J) below.
   (D)   Floodway District (FW).
      (1)   Permitted uses:
         (a)   General farming, pasture, grazing, outdoor plant nurseries,
horticulture, truck farming, forestry, sod farming and wild crop harvesting;
         (b)   Industrial-commercial loading areas, parking areas and airport
landing strips;
         (c)   Private and public golf courses, tennis courts, driving ranges,
archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching ramps, swimming areas, parks,
wildlife and nature preserves, game farms, fish hatcheries, shooting preserves,
target ranges, trap and skeet ranges, hunting and fishing areas and single- or
multiple-purpose recreational trails; and
         (d)   Residential lawns, gardens, parking areas and play areas.
      (2)   Standards for floodway permitted uses:
         (a)   The use shall have a low flood damage potential;
         (b)   The use shall be permissible in the underlying zoning district
if one exists; and
         (c)   The use shall not obstruct flood flows or increase flood
elevations and shall not involve structures, fill, obstructions, excavations or
storage of materials or equipment.
      (3)   Conditional uses:
         (a)   Structures accessory to the uses listed in division (D)(1) above
and the uses listed in divisions (D)(3)(b) through (D)(3)(h) below;
         (b)   Extraction and storage of sand, gravel and other materials;
         (c)   Marinas, boat rentals, docks, piers, wharves and water control
structures;
         (d)   Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines and
pipelines;
         (e)   Storage yards for equipment, machinery or materials;
         (f)   Placement of fill or construction of fences;
         (g)   Recreational vehicles either on individual lots of record or in
existing or new subdivisions or commercial or condominium type campgrounds,
subject to the exemptions and provisions of division (I)(3) below; and
         (h)   Structural works for flood control such as levees, dikes and
floodwalls constructed to any height where the intent is to protect individual
structures and levees or dikes where the intent is to protect agricultural
crops for a frequency flood event equal to or less than the ten-year frequency
flood event.
      (4)   Standards for floodway conditional uses:
         (a)   No structure (temporary or permanent), fill (including fill for
roads and levees), deposit, obstruction, storage of materials or equipment or
other uses may be allowed as a conditional use that will cause any increase in
the stage of the 100-year or regional flood or cause an increase in flood
damages in the reach or reaches affected;
         (b)   All floodway conditional uses shall be subject to the procedures
and standards contained in division (J)(4) below;
         (c)   The conditional use shall be permissible in the underlying
zoning district if one exists;
         (d)   1.   Fill, dredge spoil and all other similar materials
deposited or stored in the floodplain shall be protected from erosion by
vegetative cover, mulching, riprap or other acceptable method.
            2.   Dredge spoil sites and sand and gravel operations shall not be
allowed in the floodway unless a long-term site development plan is submitted
which includes an erosion/sedimentation prevention element to the plan.
            3.   As an alternative, and consistent with division (D)(4)(d)2.
above, dredge spoil disposal, and sand and gravel operations may allow
temporary, on-site storage of fill or other material which would have caused an
increase to the stage of the 100-year or regional flood, but only after the
City has received an appropriate plan which assures the removal of the
materials from the floodway based upon the flood warning time available. The
conditional use permit must be title registered with the property in the office
of the County Recorder.
         (e)   Accessory structures:
            1.   Accessory structures shall not be designed for human
habitation;
            2.   Accessory structures, if permitted, shall be constructed and
placed on the building site so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the flow
of flood waters;
               a.   Whenever possible, structures shall be constructed with the
longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood flow; and
               b.   So far as practicable, structures shall be placed
approximately on the same flood flow lines as those of adjoining structures.
            3.   Accessory structures shall be elevated on fill or structurally
dry flood-proofed in accordance with the FP-1 or FP-2 flood-proofing
classifications in the state’s Building Code. As an alternative, an accessory
structure may be flood-proofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 flood-proofing
classification in the state’s Building Code; provided, the accessory structure
constitutes a minimal investment, does not exceed 500 square feet in size at
its largest projection, and for a detached garage, the detached garage must be
used solely for parking of vehicles and limited storage. All flood-proofed
accessory structures must meet the following additional standards, as
appropriate.
               a.   The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure and shall be designed
to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
               b.   Any mechanical and utility equipment in a structure must be
elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or properly
flood-proofed.
               c.   To allow for the equalization of hydrostatic pressure,
there must be a minimum of two “automatic” openings in the outside walls of the
structure having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding. There must be openings on at
least two sides of the structure and the bottom of all openings must be no
higher than one foot above the lowest adjacent grade to the structure. Using
human intervention to open a garage door prior to flooding will not satisfy
this requirement for automatic openings.
         (f)   1.   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive or potentially injurious to human, animal or
plant life is prohibited.
            2.   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if
readily removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning
and in accordance with a plan approved by the City.
         (g)   Structural works for flood control that will change the course,
current or cross section of protected wetlands or public waters shall be
subject to the provisions of M.S. Ch. 103G, as it may be amended from time to
time. City-wide structural works for flood control intended to remove areas
from the regulatory floodplain shall not be allowed in the floodway; and
         (h)   A levee, dike or floodwall constructed in the floodway shall not
cause an increase to the 100-year or regional flood and the technical analysis
must assume equal conveyance or storage loss on both sides of a stream.
   (E)   Flood Fringe District (FF).
      (1)   Permitted uses shall be those uses of land or structures listed as
permitted uses in the underlying zoning use district(s). If no pre-existing,
underlying zoning use districts exist, then any residential or non-residential
structure or use of a structure of land shall be a permitted use in the Flood
Fringe District; provided, the use does not constitute a public nuisance. All
permitted uses shall comply with the standards for Flood Fringe permitted uses
listed in division (E)(2) below and the standards for all Flood Fringe
permitted and conditional uses listed in division (E)(5) below.
      (2)   Standards for flood fringe permitted uses:
         (a)   All structures, including accessory structures, must be elevated
on fill so that the lowest floor including basement floor is at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation. The finished fill elevation for
structures shall be no lower than one foot below the regulatory flood
protection elevation and the fill shall extend at an elevation at least 15 feet
beyond the outside limits of the structure erected thereon;
         (b)   As an alternative to elevation on fill, accessory structures
that constitute a minimal investment and that do not exceed 500 square feet at
its largest projection may be internally flood-proofed in accordance with
division (D)(4)(e)3. above;
         (c)   The storage of any materials or equipment shall be elevated on
fill to the regulatory flood protection elevation; and
         (d)   The provisions of division (E)(5) below shall apply.
      (3)   Conditional uses: any structure that is not elevated on fill or
flood-proofed in accordance with divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) above or any use
of land that does not comply with the standards of divisions (E)(2)(c) and (E)
(2)(d) above shall only be allowable as a conditional use. An application for a
conditional use shall be subject to the standards and criteria and evaluation
procedures specified in divisions (E)(4), (E)(5) and (J)(5) below.
      (4)   Standards for flood fringe conditional uses:
         (a)   1.   Alternative elevation methods other than the use of fill
may be utilized to elevate a structure’s lowest floor above the regulatory
flood protection elevation. These alternative methods may include the use of
stilts, pilings, parallel walls and the like or above-grade, enclosed areas
such as crawl spaces or tuck under garages. The base or floor of an enclosed
area shall be considered above-grade and not a structure’s basement or lowest
floor if:
               a.   The enclosed area is above-grade on at least one side of
the structure;
               b.   It is designed to internally flood and is constructed with
flood resistant materials; and
               c.   It is used solely for parking of vehicles, building access
or storage.
            2.   The above-noted alternative elevation methods are subject to
the following additional standards.
               a.   Design and certification. The structure’s design and as-
built condition must be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect as being in compliance with the general design standards of the
state’s Building Code and specifically, that all electrical, heating,
ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment, and other service
facilities must be at or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or be
designed to prevent flood water from entering or accumulating within these
components during times of flooding.
               b.   Specific standards for above-grade, enclosed areas. Above-
grade, fully enclosed areas such as crawl spaces or tuck under garages must be
designed to internally flood and the design plans must stipulate:
                  i.   The minimum area of openings in the walls where internal
flooding is to be used as a flood-proofing technique. There shall be a minimum
of two openings on at least two side of the structure and the bottom of all
openings shall be no higher than one foot above grade. The automatic openings
shall have a minimum net areas of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding unless a licensed professional
engineer or architect certifies that a smaller net area would suffice. The
automatic openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters without any form of human intervention; and
                  ii.   The enclosed area will be designed of flood resistant
materials in accordance with the FP-3 or FP-4 classifications in the state’s
Building Code and shall be used solely for building access, parking of vehicles
or storage.
         (b)   Basements, as defined by division (B)(8) above, shall be subject
to the following.
            1.   Residential basement construction shall not be allowed below
the regulatory flood protection elevation.
            2.   Non-residential basements may be allowed below the regulatory
flood protection elevation provided the basement is structurally dry flood-
proofed in accordance with division (E)(4)(c) below.
         (c)   All areas of non-residential structures including basements to
be placed below the regulatory flood protection elevation shall be flood-
proofed in accordance with the structurally dry flood-proofing classifications
in the state’s Building Code. Structurally dry flood-proofing must meet the FP-
1 or FP-2 flood-proofing classification in the state’s Building Code and this
shall require making the structure water-tight with the walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effects of
buoyancy. Structures flood-proofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 classification shall not
be permitted;
         (d)   1.   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive or potentially injurious to human, animal or
plant life is prohibited; and
            2.   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if
readily removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning
and in accordance with a plan approved by the City.
         (e)   The provisions of division (E)(5) below shall also apply.
      (5)   (a)   Accessory land uses, such as yards, railroad tracks and
parking lots may be at elevations lower than the regulatory flood protection
elevation. However, a permit for such facilities to be used by the employees or
the general public shall not be granted in the absence of a flood warning
system that provides adequate time for evacuation if the area would inundated
to a depth and velocity such that when multiplying the depth (in feet) times
velocity (in feet per second) the product number exceeds four upon occurrence
of the regional flood.
         (b)   Measures shall be taken to minimize interference with normal
plant operations especially along streams having protracted flood durations.
Certain accessory land uses such as yards and parking lots may be at lower
elevations subject to requirements set out in division (E)(5)(a) above. In
considering permit applications, due consideration shall be given to needs of
an industry whose business requires that it be located in floodplain areas.
         (c)   Fill shall be properly compacted and the slopes shall be
properly protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other acceptable
method. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established criteria
for removing the special flood hazard area designation for certain structures
properly elevated on fill above the 100-year flood elevation. FEMA’s
requirements incorporate specific fill compaction and side slope protection
standards for multi-structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should
be investigated prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of
special flood hazard area designation will be requested.
         (d)   Floodplain developments shall not adversely affect the hydraulic
capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary watercourse
or drainage system where a floodway or other encroachment limit has not been
specified on the official zoning map.
         (e)   Standards for recreational vehicles are contained in division
(I)(3) below.
         (f)   All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse and
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited
to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
forces.
   (F)   General Floodplain District.
      (1)   Permitted uses:
         (a)   The uses listed in division (D)(1) above shall be permitted
uses; and
         (b)   All other uses shall be subject to the floodway/flood fringe
evaluation criteria pursuant to division (F)(3) below. Division (D) above shall
apply if the proposed use is in the Floodway District and division (E) above
shall apply if the proposed use is in the Flood Fringe District.
      (2)   Procedures for floodway and flood fringe determinations within the
General Floodplain District:
         (a)   Upon receipt of an application for a permit or other approval
within the General Floodplain District, the applicant shall be required to
furnish such of the following information as is deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator for the determination of the regulatory flood protection
elevation and whether the proposed use is within the Floodway or Flood Fringe
District:
            1.   A typical valley cross-section(s) showing the channel of the
stream, elevation of land areas adjoining each side of the channel, cross-
sectional areas to be occupied by the proposed development, and high water
information;
            2.   Plan (surface view) showing elevations or contours of the
ground, pertinent structure, fill or storage elevations, the size, location and
spatial arrangement of all proposed and existing structures on the site, and
the location and elevations of streets;
            3.   Photographs showing existing land uses, vegetation upstream
and downstream and soil types; and
            4.   Profile showing the slope of the bottom of the channel or flow
line of the stream for at least 500 feet in either direction from the proposed
development.
         (b)   The applicant shall be responsible to submit one copy of the
above information to a designated engineer or other expert person or agency for
technical assistance in determining whether the proposed use is in the Floodway
or Flood Fringe District and to determine the regulatory flood protection
elevation. Procedures consistent with Minn. Rules, 1983, parts 6120.5000
through 6120.6200 and 44 C.F.R. part 65 shall be followed in this expert
evaluation. The designated engineer or expert is strongly encouraged to discuss
the proposed technical evaluation methodology with the respective Department of
Natural Resources’ area hydrologist prior to commencing the analysis. The
designated engineer or expert shall:
            1.   Estimate the peak discharge of the regional flood;
            2.   Calculate the water surface profile of the regional flood
based upon a hydraulic analysis of the stream channel and overbank areas; and
            3.   Compute the floodway necessary to convey or store the regional
flood without increasing flood stages more than one-half foot. A lesser stage
increase than one-half foot shall be required if, as a result of the additional
stage increase, increased flood damages would result. An equal degree of
encroachment on both sides of the stream within the reach shall be assumed in
computing floodway boundaries.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall present the technical evaluation
and findings of the designated engineer or expert to the City. The City must
formally accept the technical evaluation and the recommended Floodway and/or
Flood Fringe District boundary or deny the permit application. The City, prior
to official action, may submit the application and all supporting data and
analyses to the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Department of Natural
Resources or the Planning Commission for review and comment. Once the Floodway
and Flood Fringe District boundaries have been determined, the governing body
shall refer the matter back to the Zoning Administrator who shall process the
permit application consistent with the applicable provisions of divisions (D)
and (E) above.
   (G)   Subdivisions. Note: this section is not intended as a substitute for
§§
154.185 through
154.196 of this chapter. It is intended that the more stringent conditions of
this division (G) or the referenced §§
154.185 through
154.196 of this chapter be applied.
      (1)   Review criteria. No land shall be subdivided which is unsuitable
for the reason of flooding, inadequate drainage, water supply or sewage
treatment facilities. All lots within the floodplain districts shall be able to
contain a building site outside of the Floodway District at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation. All subdivisions shall have water and
sewage treatment facilities that comply with the provisions of this chapter and
have road access both to the subdivision and to the individual building sites
no lower than two feet below the regulatory flood protection elevation. For all
subdivisions in the floodplain, the Floodway and Flood Fringe boundaries, the
regulatory flood protection elevation and the required elevation of all access
roads shall be clearly labeled on all required subdivision drawings and
platting documents.
      (2)   Floodway/flood fringe determination in the General Floodplain
District. Where applicable as determined by the Zoning Administrator, in the
General Floodplain District, applicants shall provide the information required
in division (F)(2) above to determine the 100-year flood elevation, the
Floodway and Flood Fringe District boundaries and the regulatory flood
protection elevation for the subdivision site.
      (3)   Removal of special flood hazard area designation. The Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established criteria for removing the
special flood hazard area designation for certain structures properly elevated
on fill above the 100-year flood elevation. FEMA’s requirements incorporate
specific fill compaction and side slope protection standards for multi-
structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should be investigated
prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of special flood hazard
area designation will be requested.
   (H)   Public utilities, railroads, roads and bridges.
      (1)   Public utilities. All public utilities and facilities such as gas,
electrical, sewer and water supply systems to be located in the floodplain
shall be flood-proofed in accordance with the state’s Building Code or elevated
to above the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (2)   Public transportation facilities. Railroad tracks, roads and
bridges to be located within the floodplain shall comply with divisions (D) and
(E) above. Elevation to the regulatory flood protection elevation shall be
provided where failure or interruption of these transportation facilities would
result in danger to the public health or safety or where the facilities are
essential to the orderly functioning of the area. Minor or auxiliary roads or
railroads may be constructed at a lower elevation where failure or interruption
of transportation services would not endanger the public health or safety.
      (3)   On-site sewage treatment and water supply systems. These systems
are not permitted by the City.
   (I)   Manufactured homes and manufactured home parks and placement of travel
trailers and travel vehicles.
      (1)   New manufactured home parks and expansion to existing manufactured
home parks shall be subject to the provisions placed on subdivisions by
division (G) above.
      (2)   (a)   The replacement of new or replacement manufactured homes in
existing manufactured home parks or on individual lots of record that are
located in floodplain districts will be treated as a new structure and may be
placed only if elevated in compliance with division (E) above.
         (b)   All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse and
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited
to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
forces.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles that do not meet the exemption criteria
specified in division (I)(3)(a) below shall be subject to the provisions of
this chapter and as specifically spelled out in divisions (I)(3)(c) and (I)(3)
(d) below.
         (a)   Exemption. Travel trailers and travel vehicles are exempt from
the provisions of this chapter if they are placed in any of the areas listed in
division (I)(3)(b) below and, further, they meet the following criteria:
            1.   Have current licenses required for highway use;
            2.   Are highway ready meaning on wheels or the internal jacking
system, are attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
commonly used in campgrounds and recreational parks and the travel trailer/
travel vehicle has no permanent structural type additions attached to it; and
            3.   The recreational vehicle and associated use must be
permissible in any preexisting, underlying zoning use district.
         (b)   Areas exempted for placement of travel/recreational vehicles.
            1.   Individual lots or parcels of record;
            2.   Existing commercial recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds;
and
            3.   Existing condominium type associations.
         (c)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles exempted in
division (I)(3)(a) above lose this exemption when development occurs on the
parcel exceeding $500 for a structural addition to the recreational vehicle or
exceeding $500 for an accessory structure such as a garage or storage building.
The recreational vehicle and all additions and accessory structures will then
be treated as a new structure and shall be subject to the elevation/flood-
proofing requirements and the use of land restrictions specified in divisions
(D) and (E) above. There shall be no development or improvement on the parcel
or attachment to the recreational vehicle that hinders the removal of the
recreational vehicle to a flood-free location should flooding occur.
         (d)   New recreational vehicle parks, campgrounds. New commercial
recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds and new residential type subdivisions
and condominium associations are not permitted.
   (J)   Administration.
      (1)   Zoning Administrator. A Zoning Administrator designated by the
governing body shall administer and enforce this chapter. If the Zoning
Administrator finds a violation of the provisions of this chapter, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the person responsible for the violation in
accordance with the procedures stated in division (L) below.
      (2)   Permit requirements.
         (a)   Permit required. A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter shall be secured prior to the
erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance
and repair), or alteration of any building, structure or portion thereof; prior
to the use or change of use of a building, structure or land; prior to the
construction of a dam, fence or on-site septic system; prior to the change or
extension of a non-conforming use; prior to the repair of a structure that has
been damaged by flood, fire, tornado or any other source; and prior to the
placement of fill, excavation of materials or the storage of materials or
equipment within the floodplain.
         (b)   Application for permit. Application for a permit shall be made
in duplicate to the Zoning Administrator on forms furnished by the Zoning
Administrator and shall include the following, where applicable: plans in
duplicate drawn to scale, showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the lot; existing or proposed structures, fill or storage of
materials; and the location of the foregoing in relation to the stream channel.
         (c)   State and federal permits. Prior to granting a permit or
processing an application for a conditional use permit or variance, the Zoning
Administrator shall determine that the applicant has obtained all necessary
state and federal permits.
         (d)   Certificate of zoning compliance for a new, altered or non-
conforming use. It shall be unlawful to use, occupy or permit the use or
occupancy of any building or premises or part thereof hereafter created,
erected, changed, converted, altered or enlarged in its use or structure until
a certificate of zoning compliance shall have been issued by the Zoning
Administrator stating that the use of the building or land conforms to the
requirements of this chapter.
         (e)   Construction and use to be as provided on applications, plans,
permits, variances and certificates of zoning compliance. Permits, conditional
use permits or certificates of zoning compliance issued on the basis of
approved plans and applications authorize only the use, arrangement and
construction set forth in the approved plans and applications, and no other
use, arrangement or construction. Any use, arrangement or construction at
variance with that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and
punishable as provided by division (L) below.
         (f)   Certification. The applicant shall be required to submit
certification by a licensed professional engineer, licensed architect or
licensed land surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were
accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Flood-proofing
measures shall be certified by a licensed professional engineer or licensed
architect.
         (g)   Record of first floor elevation. The Zoning Administrator shall
maintain a record of the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new structures and alterations or additions to existing structures in the
floodplain. The Zoning Administrator shall also maintain a record of the
elevation to which structures and alterations or additions to structures are
flood-proofed.
         (h)   Notification for watercourse alterations. The Zoning
Administrator shall notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and
the Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources prior to the City
authorizing any alteration or relocation of a watercourse. If the applicant has
applied for a permit to work in the beds of public waters pursuant to M.S. Ch.
103G, as it may be amended from time to time, this shall suffice as adequate
notice to the Commissioner of Natural Resources. A copy of the notification
shall also be submitted to the Chicago Regional Office of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA).
         (i)   Notification to FEMA when physical changes increase or decrease
the 100-year flood elevation. As soon as is practicable, but not later than six
months after the date the supporting information becomes available, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the Chicago Regional Office of FEMA of the changes
by submitting a copy of the technical or scientific data.
      (3)   Board of Adjustment.
         (a)   Rules. The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for the conduct
of business and may exercise all of the powers conferred on the boards by state
law.
         (b)   Administrative review. The Board shall hear and decide appeals
where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by an administrative official in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
         (c)   Variances. The Board may authorize, upon appeal in specific
cases, the relief or variance from the terms of this chapter as will not be
contrary to the public interest and only for those circumstances such as
hardship, practical difficulties or circumstances unique to the property under
consideration, as provided for in the respective enabling legislation for
planning and zoning for cities or counties as appropriate. In the granting of
the variance, the Board of Adjustment shall clearly identify in writing the
specific conditions that existed consistent with the criteria specified in this
chapter, any other zoning regulations in the City, and in the respective
enabling legislation that justified the granting of the variance. No variance
shall have the effect of allowing in any district uses prohibited in that
district, permit a lower degree of flood protection than the regulatory flood
protection elevation for the particular area, or permit standards lower than
those required by state law. The following additional variance criteria of the
Federal Emergency Management Agency must be satisfied.
            1.   Variances shall not be issued by a City within any designated
regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
            2.   Variances shall only be issued by a City upon:
               a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
               b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
               c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
            3.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         (d)   Hearings. Upon filing with the Board of Adjustment of an appeal
from a decision of the Zoning Administrator, or an application for a variance,
the Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for a hearing and give due
notice to the parties in interest as specified by law. The Board of Adjustment
shall submit by mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources a copy of the
application for proposed variances sufficiently in advance so that the
Commissioner will receive at least ten days’ notice of the hearing.
         (e)   Decisions. The Board shall arrive at a decision on such appeal
or variance within 45 days. In passing upon an appeal, the Board of Adjustment
may, so long as such action is in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning Administrator or other
public official. It shall make its decision in writing, setting forth the
findings of fact and the reasons for its decisions. In granting a variance, the
Board of Adjustment may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards such as
those specified in division (J)(4)(f) below, which are in conformity with the
purposes of this chapter. Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when
made a part of the terms under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter punishable under division (L) below. A copy of all
decisions granting variances shall be forwarded by mail to the Commissioner of
Natural Resources within ten days of the action.
         (f)   Appeals. Appeals from any decision of the Board may be made, and
as specified in this community’s official controls and also state statutes.
         (g)   Flood insurance notice and record keeping. The Zoning
Administrator shall notify the applicant for a variance that:
            1.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
            2.   The construction below the 100-year or regional flood level
increases risks to life and property. The notification shall be maintained with
a record of all variance actions. The City shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report the
variances issued in its annual or biennial report submitted to the
Administrator of the National Flood Insurance Program.
      (4)   Conditional uses. The Planning Commission shall hear and decide
applications for conditional uses permissible under this chapter. Applications
shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator who shall forward the
application and Planning Commission recommendation to the City Council for
final consideration.
         (a)   Hearings. Upon filing with the Zoning Administrator, an
application for a conditional use permit, the Zoning Administrator shall submit
by mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources a copy of the application for
proposed conditional use sufficiently in advance so that the Commissioner will
receive at least ten days’ notice of the hearing before the Planning
Commission.
         (b)   Decisions. The City Council shall arrive at a decision on a
conditional use within 30 days. In granting a conditional use permit the City
Council shall prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards, in addition to
those specified in division (J)(4)(f) below which are in conformity with the
purposes of this chapter. Violations of the conditions and safeguards, when
made a part of the terms under which the conditional use permit is granted,
shall be deemed a violation of this section punishable under division (L)
below. A copy of all decisions granting conditional use permits shall be
forwarded by mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten days of
the action.
         (c)   Procedures to be followed by the City Council in passing on
conditional use permit applications within all floodplain districts.
            1.   Require the applicant to furnish such of the following
information and additional information as deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator for determining the suitability of the particular site for the
proposed use:
               a.   Plans in triplicate drawn to scale showing the nature,
location, dimensions and elevation of the lot, existing or proposed structures,
fill, storage of materials, flood-proofing measures and the relationship of the
above to the location of the stream channel; and
               b.   Specifications for building construction and materials,
flood-proofing, filling, dredging, grading, channel improvement, storage of
materials, water supply and sanitary facilities.
            2.   Transmit one copy of the information described in division (J)
(4)(a)1. above to a designated engineer or other expert person or agency for
technical assistance, where necessary, in evaluating the proposed project in
relation to flood heights and velocities, the seriousness of flood damage to
the use, the adequacy of the plans for protection and other technical matters;
and
            3.   Based upon the technical evaluation of the designated engineer
or expert, the Planning Commission shall determine the specific flood hazard at
the site and evaluate the suitability of the proposed use in relation to the
flood hazard.
         (d)   Factors upon which the Planning Commission recommendations, then
the decision of the City Council shall be based. In considering conditional use
applications, the Planning Commission and City Council shall consider all
relevant factors specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
            1.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights
of velocities caused by encroachments;
            2.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others, or they may block bridges, culverts or
other hydraulic structures;
            3.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the
ability of these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary
conditions;
            4.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents
to flood damage and the effect of the damage on the individual owner;
            5.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the City;
            6.   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location;
            7.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to
flooding for the proposed use;
            8.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing
development and development anticipated in the foreseeable future;
            9.   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan
and floodplain management program for the area;
            10.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
            11.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site; and
            12.   Other factors which are relevant to the purposes of this
chapter.
         (e)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits. Upon
consideration of the factors listed above and the purpose of this chapter, the
City Council shall attach the conditions to the granting of conditional use
permits as it deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this chapter. The
conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
            1.   Modification of waste treatment and water supply facilities;
            2.   Limitations on period of use, occupancy and operation;
            3.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties and deed
restrictions;
            4.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications,
compensatory storage, dikes, levees and other protective measures; and
            5.   Flood-proofing measures, in accordance with the state’s
Building Code and this chapter. The applicant shall submit a plan or document
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect that the flood-
proofing measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection elevation
and associated flood factors for the particular area.
   (K)   Non-conforming uses.
      (1)   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of this chapter, but which is not in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions.
      (2)   Historic structures, as defined in division (B)(8) above, shall be
subject to the provisions of division (K)(2)(a) through (K)(2)(e) below.
         (a)   No such use shall be expanded, changed, enlarged or altered in a
way that increases its non-conformity.
         (b)   Any structural alteration or addition to a non-conforming
structure or non-conforming use which would result in increasing the flood
damage potential of that structure or use shall be protected to the regulatory
flood protection elevation in accordance with any of the elevation on fill or
flood-proofing techniques (i.e., FP-1 through FP-4 flood-proofing
classifications) allowable in the state’s Building Code, except as further
restricted for substantial improvements in division (K)(2)(e) below.
         (c)   If any non-conforming use is discontinued for 12 consecutive
months, any future use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
         (d)   If any non-conforming use or structure is substantially damaged,
as defined in division (B)(8) above, it shall not be reconstructed except in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter. The applicable provisions for
establishing new uses or new structures in divisions (D) and (E) above will
apply depending upon whether the use or structure is in the Floodway or Flood
Fringe District, respectively.
         (e)   If a substantial improvement occurs, as defined in division (B)
(8) above, from any combination of a building addition to the outside
dimensions of the existing building or a rehabilitation, reconstruction,
alteration or other improvement to the inside dimensions of an existing non-
conforming building, then the building addition and the existing non-conforming
building must meet the elevation on fill or FP-1 or FP-2 dry flood-proofing
requirements of divisions (D) or (E) above for new structures, depending upon
whether the structure is in the Floodway or Flood Fringe District,
respectively. If a substantial improvement occurs only from a building
addition, then the building addition must meet the elevation on fill or FP-1 or
FP-2 dry flood-proofing requirements of divisions (D) or (E) above for new
structures and the existing structure must also meet the elevation on fill or
FP-1 or FP-2 dry flood-proofing requirements of divisions (D) or (E) above for
new structures if any alteration is made to the common wall in excess of
installing a standard doorway.
   (L)   Penalties for violation.
      (1)   Violations of the provisions of this section or failure to comply
with any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or conditional uses) shall
constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as defined by law.
      (2)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City from taking other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. Such actions
may include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   In responding to a suspected ordinance violation, the Zoning
Administrator and City may utilize the full array of enforcement actions
available to it, including, but not limited to, prosecution and fines,
injunctions, after-the-fact permits, orders for corrective measures or a
request to the National Flood Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance
availability to the guilty party. The City must act in good faith to enforce
these official controls and to correct ordinance violations to the extent
possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
         (b)   When an ordinance violation is either discovered by or brought
to the attention of the Zoning Administrator, the Zoning Administrator shall
immediately investigate the situation, and document the nature and extent of
the violation of the official control. As soon as is reasonably possible, this
information will be submitted to the appropriate Department of Natural
Resources and Federal Emergency Management Agency Regional Office along with
the City’s plan of action to correct the violation to the degree possible.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the suspected party of the
requirements of this section and all other official controls, and the nature
and extent of the suspected violation of these controls. If the structure and/
or use is under construction or development, the Zoning Administrator may order
the construction or development immediately halted until a proper permit or
approval is granted by the City. If the construction or development is already
completed, then the Zoning Administrator may either:
            1.   Issue an order identifying the corrective actions that must be
made within a specified time period to bring the use or structure into
compliance with the official controls; or
            2.   Notify the responsible party to apply for an after-the-fact
permit/development approval within a specified period of time not to exceed 30
days.
         (d)   If the responsible party does not appropriately respond to the
Zoning Administrator within the specified period of time, each additional day
that lapses shall constitute an additional violation of this chapter and shall
be prosecuted accordingly. The Zoning Administrator shall also, upon the lapse
of the specified response period, notify the landowner to restore the land to
the condition which existed prior to the violation of this chapter.
   (M)   Amendments.
      (1)   The floodplain designation on the official zoning map shall not be
removed from floodplain areas unless it can be shown that the designation is in
error, or that the area has been filled to or above the elevation of the
regional flood and is contiguous to lands outside the floodplain. Special
exceptions to this rule may be permitted by the Commissioner of Natural
Resources if he or she determines that, through other measures, lands are
adequately protected for the intended use.
      (2)   All amendments to this chapter, including amendments to the
official zoning map as they relate to the provisions of this chapter, must be
submitted to and approved by the Commissioner of Natural Resources prior to
adoption. Changes in the official zoning map must meet the Federal Emergency
Management Agency’s (FEMA) technical conditions and criteria and must receive
prior FEMA approval before adoption. The Commissioner of Natural Resources must
be given ten days’ written notice of all hearings to consider an amendment to
this chapter and said notice shall include a draft of the ordinance amendment
or technical study under consideration.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 18)
§ 154.104 BP, BLUFF PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this district is to protect and preserve the natural
and scenic resources of bluffs and steep slopes.
      (2)   These resources represent an enhancement to the community and if
left unprotected, risk impairment to the health, safety, tax base and general
welfare of the community and natural ecological functioning of the local
environment.
   (B)   Scope, interpretation and application.
      (1)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all lands located
within the Bluff Protection District, within the corporate limits of the City,
and are delineated on the official zoning map of the City.
      (2)   Where the provisions of this chapter or any other ordinance are in
conflict, the more restrictive regulations shall take precedence.
   (C)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses in the overlay district include all
permitted and accessory uses allowed in the underlying zoning district, unless
listed as a conditional or prohibited use in this chapter.
   (D)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   All uses considered conditional uses in the underlying zoning
district shall be considered conditional uses under this chapter, unless
prohibited by this or other applicable ordinances;
      (2)   Campgrounds;
      (3)   Utility transmission lines; and
      (4)   Infrastructure owned and constructed by the City.
   (E)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Sand and gravel extraction;
      (2)   Commercial manufacturing of sand and gravel by-products;
      (3)   Junkyards;
      (4)   Downhill ski areas;
      (5)   Cemeteries; and
      (6)   All other uses not authorized in the underlying zoning district.
   (F)   District dimensional requirements.
      (1)   The following chart sets forth the minimum area, setbacks and other
requirements of the Bluff Protection District.
 
Standard                                                       All Lots
Building setback from top of bluff                             100 feet
Building setback from toe of bluff                             25 feet
Maximum lot area covered by impervious surface measured to the 10%
centerline of the road
Vegetative cutting area setback from top of bluff              50 feet
 
      (2)   No structures shall be placed or result in grading on any slope
equal to or greater than 12% as measured over a 50-foot distance.
   (G)   General performance standards.
      (1)   The exterior color of new or renovated structures, including roofs,
shall be of earth or summer vegetation tones, unless completely screened from
Highway 3.
      (2)   No land shall be subdivided which is determined by the City to be
unsuitable by reason of flooding, inadequate drainage, soil and rock formations
with severe limitations for development, severe erosion potential, unfavorable
topography, inadequate water supply or any other features likely to be harmful
to the health, safety or welfare of the future residents of the proposed
subdivision or the community. Soil borings shall be required in any proposed
subdivision within the Bluff Protection District, to establish the suitability
of the land for development. The testing is required before any preliminary
plat may be approved, but may be waived by the Zoning Administrator when
adequate data is already available.
      (3)   Existing drainage patterns shall not be disturbed except by public
rights-of-way or easements which cross drainage patterns in a general
perpendicular direction.
   (H)   Grading and erosion control standards. Grading, filling, excavating or
otherwise changing the topography shall not be conducted without a grading
permit from the Zoning Administrator. A grading permit may be issued only if:
      (1)   Slopes equal to or greater than 12% are not affected;
      (2)   No more than one-third of the surface of the development area shall
be devoid of vegetative ground cover at any time;
      (3)   Temporary ground cover such as mulch shall be used and permanent
cover such as sod shall be planted as soon as possible;
      (4)   An erosion control plan to prevent erosion and trap sediment shall
be employed in accordance with regulations of the state’s Pollution Control
Agency and approved by the City Engineer;
      (5)   Fill is stabilized according to accepted engineering standards;
      (6)   Alternations to topography do not adversely affect adjacent or
nearby properties;
      (7)   Site design that minimizes vegetation removal and slope alteration;
and
      (8)   Clear cutting of vegetation is prohibited, except to remove the
minimum amount of vegetation necessary for placing roads, trails, utilities,
structures and parking areas.
   (I)   Vegetation removal performance standards. On slopes of 12% or greater
(measured over a 50-foot distance), there shall be no vegetative cutting of
live trees or shrubs without a vegetative cutting permit from the Zoning
Administrator. A permit may be issued under the following conditions:
      (1)   The cutting, including topping, involves trees less than four
inches DBH (diameter at breast height as measured at 54 inches above the
ground);
      (2)   The cutting, including topping, involves vegetation which is not
screening any structure from view from Highway 3;
      (3)   The essential character, quality and density of existing growth is
preserved and continuous canopy cover is maintained;
      (4)   Removal of dead or diseased trees;
      (5)   The cutting is necessary for the maintenance of transportation or
utility rights-of-way; and
      (6)   A vegetative cutting permit is not required for the following;
provided, the existing quality, character, density and canopy is maintained as
viewed from Highway 3:
         (a)   Clearing for a validly permitted structures, roadways and
parking areas; and
         (b)   Maintenance, trimming or pruning located within a transportation
or utility right-of-way.
   (J)   Stairway and lift standards. All stairways and lifts on bluffs shall
be visually inconspicuous. Stairways and lifts are the preferred alternatives
to major topographic alterations for achieving access up and down bluffs and
steep slopes. Stairways, lifts and landings shall meet the following design
requirements.
      (1)   Stairways and lifts must not exceed four feet in width on
residential lots. Wider stairways may be used for public open space uses.
      (2)   Landings for stairways and lifts must not exceed 32 square feet in
area. Landings larger than 32 square feet may be used for public open space
uses.
      (3)   Canopies or roofs are not permitted in stairways, lifts or
landings.
      (4)   Stairways, lifts and landings may be either constructed on posts or
pilings, or placed into the ground; provided, they are designed in a manner
that ensures control of soil erosion.
      (5)   Stairways, lifts and landings shall be located in the most visually
inconspicuous portion of lots, as viewed from adjacent areas, assuming summer,
leaf-on conditions.
   (K)   Conservation design - planned unit developments. A pattern of
subdivision development which places dwelling units into compact groupings is
encouraged when the proposed grouping provides a better means of preserving
open space, natural hydrological functioning, woods, scenic views and other
natural features than the application of the standard dimensional requirements.
Exceptions to impervious surface and setback requirements may be allowed for
planned unit developments that provide significant public and environmental
benefits as described in the City’s PUD ordinance.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 19)
§ 154.105 WETLAND PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this overlay district is to conserve and
protect wetlands through sound management practices that maintain and enhance
the natural ecological functioning of wetlands in order to enhance the health,
safety and welfare of residents. The City seeks to accomplish the following
purposes:
      (1)   To satisfy the requirements of the Wetland Conservation Act and
achieve no net loss of wetlands. When wetlands are altered or destroyed,
mitigation or replacement must be provided to re-create the functions and
values of the lost wetland;
      (2)   To enhance the rural character of the City and preserve open space
amenities for current and future residents;
      (3)   To promote water quality by maintaining the ability of wetlands to
recharge ground water; and
      (4)   To provide wildlife habitat and support the diversity of both plant
and animal species within the City.
   (B)   Scope, interpretation and application.
      (1)   This chapter incorporates by reference the Wetland Conservation Act
of 1991 (M.S. § 103G.221, as it may be amended from time to time), hereinafter
referred to as the WCA.
      (2)   This chapter shall apply to all parcels containing wetlands defined
by the WCA. The City shall maintain official maps identifying all wetlands
contained on the National Wetlands Inventory and other classified wetlands. The
presence or absence of a wetland on the map does not represent a definitive
determination as to whether a wetland covered by this chapter is or is not
present.
      (3)   Wetlands are to be delineated prior to any development activity
covered by §§
154.040 through
154.047 and
154.185 through
154.196 of this chapter. It is the responsibility of an applicant to delineate
the exact wetland boundary or to determine that no wetland exists on a subject
property. Wetland delineations supplied by applicants shall be certified by a
qualified wetland delineator.
      (4)   (a)   Wetlands are lands transitional between terrestrial and
aquatic systems where the water table is usually at or near the surface or the
land is covered by shallow water.
         (b)   Surface water features classified as wetlands in the United
States Fish and Wildlife Service Circular #39 (1971 edition) are incorporated
by reference.
         (c)   For purposes of this chapter, wetlands must have the following
three attributes:
            1.   Have a predominance of hydric soils; (HYDRIC SOILS are
saturated, flooded or ponded long enough during the growing season to develop
anaerobic conditions in the upper part.)
            2.   Are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of hydrophytic
vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions; and
(HYDROPHYTIC VEGETATION is macrophytic plant life growing in water, soil or on
a substrate that is at least periodically deficient in oxygen as a result of
excessive water content.)
            3.   Under normal circumstances support a prevalence of the
vegetation.
   (C)   General performance standards.
      (1)   Storm water runoff must not be discharged directly into wetlands.
      (2)   The MPCA’s best management practices shall be followed to avoid
erosion and sedimentation during the construction process.
      (3)   For lots of record created after (date ordinance adopted), a
vegetative buffer strip shall be maintained abutting all wetlands. Buffer
strips shall be 30 feet in depth beginning at the delineated wetland edge. The
use of a meandering buffer strip to maintain a natural appearance is encouraged
in areas of flat topography.
      (4)   Septic systems must be setback at least 150 feet from the edge of
the wetland.
      (5)   Structures shall be setback at least 75 feet from the edge of the
wetland.
      (6)   The lowest ground floor elevation of all structures must be at
least three feet above the seasonal high water elevation.
      (7)   Structures intended to provide access across a wetland shall be
prohibited unless a permit is obtained from the appropriate regulatory
agencies.
         (b)   The seed mix to be used shall consist of at least 12 pounds pure
live seed (PLS) per acre of native prairie grass seed and five pounds PLS per
acre of native forbs. Native prairie grass and native forb mixes shall contain
no fewer than four and five species respectively.
         (c)   The annual nurse or cover crop shall be applied at a rate of 20
pounds per acre.
         (d)   Native shrubs may be substituted for forbs. The shrubs may be
bare root seedlings and shall be planted at a rate of 60 plants per acre.
Shrubs shall be distributed so as to provide a natural appearance and shall not
be planted in rows.
         (e)   Any ground cover or shrub plantings installed in buffer areas
are independent of landscaping requirements set forth elsewhere in the City
code and City policy.
         (f)   Native prairie grasses and forbs shall be planted by a qualified
contractor using a drill designed for native prairie grass seedlings, such as a
Truax or Nesbitt Native Grass Drill or a John Deere 1550 Power-Till Seeder.
         (g)   No fertilizer shall be used in establishing new buffer zones,
except on highly disturbed sites where deemed necessary to establish acceptable
buffer vegetation and then limited to amounts indicated by an accredited soil
testing laboratory.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 26)
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR LARGE COMMERCIAL AND RETAIL DEVELOPMENTS
§ 154.115 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The City adopted this subchapter to enact these guidelines as a
means of guiding the development of large commercial and retail establishments
through the PUD process and to provide clear expectations to mitigate negative
impacts associated with large developments.
      (2)   These guidelines are a response to dissatisfaction with corporate
chain marketing strategy dictating design that is indifferent to local identity
and interests. The main goal is to encourage development that contributes to
the City as a unique place by reflecting its physical character and adding to
it in appropriate ways.
      (3)   Large retail developments depend on high visibility from major
public streets. In turn, their design determines much of the character and
attractiveness of major streetscapes in the City. The marketing interests of
many corporations, even with strong image-making design by professional
designers, can be potentially detrimental to community aspirations and sense of
place when they result in massive individual developments that do not
contribute to or integrate with the City in a positive way.
      (4)   The City already has performance standards and requirements as
specified in §§
154.060 through
154.074 of this chapter that promote solutions to general issues concerning
commercial development. The purpose of these guidelines for large commercial
development is to augment those existing performance standards with more
specific interpretations that apply to the design of large commercial-retail
store developments.
      (5)   These guidelines require a basic level of architectural variety,
compatible scale, pedestrian and bicycle access and mitigation of negative
impacts. The guidelines are by no means intended to limit creativity; it is the
City’s hope that they will serve as a useful tool for design professionals
engaged in designing a site within the “Dundas” context. They are placed within
the framework of the existing Zoning Code to communicate the importance the
City places on these site design policies.
      (6)   (a)   The following guidelines are intended to be used as a design
aid by developers proposing large commercial developments in community and
regional shopping centers and as an evaluation tool by the City staff and the
Planning Commission in their review processes. These guidelines apply to all
projects where a proposed building (or group of buildings) exceeds 80,000
square feet.
         (b)   These guidelines are to be used in conjunction with existing
performance standards (§§
154.060 through
154.074   of this chapter).
   (B)   Site design.
      (1)   To create efficient, attractive, inviting spaces that complement
public right-of-way as well as adjacent private uses. Spaces that draw the eye
and the user deeper into the site are encouraged to avoid shallow “strip”
development.
      (2)   (a)   All buildings and parking should be visibly organized by a
clear design concept.
         (b)   Buildings should be placed with the long dimension perpendicular
to highway or street frontage. The end of the building should be placed close
to the highway or street with room for one to two rows of parking, perimeter
landscaping and public sidewalks.
         (c)   The long dimension of the primary parking area should be placed
perpendicular to the highway or street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fea97f17e63fa05fca36cd209d09d1e24a0c1ae4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1337.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 24, Art. I, 1)
§ 154.116 MULTIPLE STORES/STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The presence of multiple stores/structures gives a center a stronger
community character and appearance by creating variety, breaking up large
expanses of building or parking lots and expanding the range of the site’s
activities. Architecture, landscaping and window displays of the stores/
structures should be used to contribute to the visual interest of the site. The
standards presented in this section are directed toward those situations where
additional, smaller buildings and stores, with separate, exterior customer
entrances are located in the principal buildings or scattered throughout the
site.
   (B)   Any parcel containing a building of more than 80,000 square feet shall
include at least one of the following approaches to adding variety to the site.
      (1)   Liner stores. Smaller stores must occupy at least 50% of any facade
facing a public street.
      (2)   Individual or building clusters. Multi-tenant or individual
buildings housing commercial businesses shall be mixed into the parking lot or
along the perimeter of the property.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 24, Art. I, 2)
§ 154.117 ENTRANCES.
   (A)   Large retail buildings should feature multiple entrances. Multiple
building entrances reduce walking distances from cars, facilitate pedestrian
and bicycle access from public sidewalks and provide convenience where certain
entrances offer access to individual stores, or identified departments of a
store. Multiple entrances also mitigate the effect of the unbroken walls and
neglected areas that often characterize building facades that face bordering
land uses.
   (B)   At least two sides of a large retail establishment shall feature
customer entrances. This standard may be met on one side by the presence of
“liner” stores. The two required sides shall be those planned to have the
highest level of public pedestrian activity, and one of the sides shall be that
which most directly faces a street with pedestrian access. The other of the two
sides may face a second street with pedestrian access and/or a main parking lot
area. All entrances shall be architecturally prominent and clearly visible from
the abutting public street. Movie theaters are exempt from this requirement.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fea97f17e63fa05fca36cd209d09d1e24a0c1ae4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1339.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 24, Art. I, 3)
§ 154.118 PARKING LOT ORIENTATION.
   (A)   (1)   Parking areas should provide safe, convenient and efficient
access. They should be distributed around large buildings in order to shorten
the distance to other buildings and public sidewalks and to reduce the overall
scale of the paved surface.
      (2)   If buildings are located closer to streets; the scale of the
complex is reduced, pedestrian traffic is encouraged and architectural details
take on added importance.
   (B)   (1)   No more than 50% of the off-street parking area for the lot,
tract or area of land devoted to the large retail establishment shall be
located between the front facade of the large retail establishment and the
abutting streets (the “front parking area”).
      (2)   Curbed islands of no less than 600 square feet shall be allowed in
parking lots in lieu of several smaller islands.
      (3)   A landscaped perimeter or buffer strip of at least ten feet wide
shall be provided between all parking areas, the public sidewalk or street and
property lines in accordance with the performance standards in §§
154.060 through
154.074 of this chapter.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fea97f17e63fa05fca36cd209d09d1e24a0c1ae4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1341.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 24, Art. I, 4)
§ 154.119 PEDESTRIAN AND BIKE CIRCULATION.
   (A)   Pedestrian and bike accessibility better connects auto-oriented
developments to the surrounding community, reducing traffic impacts and
enabling the development to be better integrated into the community. This
section sets forth standards for public sidewalks and internal pedestrian and
bicycle circulation systems that can provide user-friendly pedestrian access as
well as pedestrian safety, shelter and convenience within the center grounds.
   (B)   (1)   Sidewalks shall be included on both sides of a major entrance.
Sidewalks shall continue through the development to connect with the primary
entrances for all buildings.
      (2)   Bike storage facilities shall be provided at the rate of one bike
for every 20 vehicle parking spaces in visible and sheltered locations near
entrance doors.
      (3)   Trail connections shall be made in coordination with the City’s
park and trail plan.
      (4)   Sidewalks at least eight feet in width shall be provided along all
sides of the lot that abut a public street.
      (5)   Continuous internal pedestrian walkways, no less than eight feet in
width, shall be provided from the public sidewalk or right-of-way to the
principal customer entrance of all principal buildings on the site. At a
minimum, walkways shall connect focal points of pedestrian activity such as,
but not limited to, transit stops, street crossings, building and store entry
points, and shall feature adjoining landscaped areas that include trees,
shrubs, benches, flower beds, ground covers or other such materials for no less
than 50% of their length. The number of internal street crossings shall be
minimized.
      (6)   Sidewalks, no less than eight feet in width, shall be provided
along the full length of the building along any facade featuring a customer
entrance, and along any facade abutting public parking areas. The sidewalks
shall be located at least six feet from the facade of the building to provide
planting beds for foundation landscaping, except where features such as arcades
or entryways are part of the facade.
      (7)   Internal pedestrian walkways provided in conformance with division
(B)(5) above shall provide weather protection features such as awnings or
arcades within 30 feet of all customer entrances.
      (8)   All internal pedestrian walkways shall be distinguished from
driving surfaces through the use of durable, low maintenance surface materials
such as pavers, bricks or scored concrete to enhance pedestrian safety and
comfort, as well as the attractiveness of the walkways.
      (9)   Wherever designated by the City park and trail plan, accommodations
(easements) for public trails shall be provided to coordinate with the park and
trail plan.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fea97f17e63fa05fca36cd209d09d1e24a0c1ae4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1343.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fea97f17e63fa05fca36cd209d09d1e24a0c1ae4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1345.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 24, Art. I, 5)
§ 154.120 BACK SIDES.
   (A)   The rear or sides of buildings often present an unattractive view of
blank walls, loading areas, storage areas, HVAC units, garbage receptacles and
other such features. Architectural and landscaping features should mitigate
these impacts.
   (B)   The minimum setback for any building facade shall be 35 feet from the
nearest property line. Where the back or side facade faces adjacent residential
uses, an earthen berm containing landscape material according to standards in
§§
154.060 through
154.074 of this chapter shall be provided.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 24, Art. I, 6)
§ 154.121 OUTDOOR STORAGE, TRASH COLLECTION AND LOADING AREAS.
   (A)   Loading areas and outdoor storage areas exert visual and noise impacts
on surrounding neighborhoods. These areas, when visible from adjoining
properties and/or public streets, should be screened, recessed or enclosed.
While screens and recesses can effectively mitigate these impacts, the
selection of inappropriate screening materials can exacerbate the problem.
Appropriate locations for loading and outdoor storage areas include areas
between buildings, where more than one building is located on a site and the
buildings are not more than 40 feet apart, or on those sides of buildings that
do not have customer entrances.
   (B)   (1)   Areas for outdoor storage, truck parking, trash collection or
compaction, loading or other such uses shall not be visible from adjacent
properties or public right-of-way.
      (2)   No areas for outdoor storage, trash collection or compaction,
loading or other such uses shall be located within 35 feet of any public
street, public sidewalk or internal pedestrian way.
      (3)   Loading docks, truck parking, outdoor storage, utility meters, HVAC
equipment, trash collection, trash compaction and other service functions shall
be incorporated into the overall design of the building and the landscaping so
that the visual and acoustic impacts of these functions are fully contained and
out of view from adjacent properties and public streets, and no attention is
attracted to the functions by the use of screening materials that are different
from or inferior to the principal materials of the building and landscape.
      (4)   Non-enclosed areas for the storage and sale of seasonal inventory
shall be permanently defined and screened with walls and/or fences. Materials,
colors and design of screening walls and/or fences and the cover shall conform
to those used as predominant materials and colors on the building. If such
areas are to be covered, then the covering shall conform to those used as
predominant materials and colors on the building.
      (5)   Landscape screening shall meet the standards of §§
154.060 through
154.074 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 24, Art. I, 7)
§ 154.122 CENTRAL FEATURES AND COMMUNITY SPACES.
   (A)   (1)   Buildings should offer attractive and inviting pedestrian scale
features, spaces and amenities.
      (2)   Entrances and parking lots should be configured to be functional
and inviting with walkways conveniently tied to logical destinations.
      (3)   Bus stops and drop-off/pick-up points should be considered as
integral parts of the configuration.
      (4)   Pedestrian ways should be anchored by special design features such
as towers, arcades, porticos, pedestrian light fixtures, bollards, planter
walls and other architectural elements that define circulation ways and outdoor
spaces.
      (5)   Examples of outdoor spaces are plazas, patios, courtyards and
window shopping areas.
      (6)   The features and spaces should enhance the building and the center
as integral parts of the community fabric.
   (B)   (1)   Each retail establishment larger than 80,000 square feet shall
contribute to the establishment or enhancement of community and public spaces
by providing at least two of the following: patio/seating area; pedestrian
plaza with benches; transportation center; window shopping walkway; outdoor
playground area; kiosk area; water feature; clock tower; or other deliberately
shaped area and/or a focal feature or amenity that, in the judgment of the
Planning Commission, adequately enhances the community and public spaces.
      (2)   Any such areas shall have direct access to the public sidewalk
network and the features shall not be constructed of materials that are
inferior to the principal materials of the building and landscape.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fea97f17e63fa05fca36cd209d09d1e24a0c1ae4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1347.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 24, Art. I, 8)
§ 154.123 LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Low impact development (LID) is a comprehensive approach rather
than a technique.
      (2)   The idea behind LID is to develop a site so that post-development
runoff conditions mimic or imitate pre-settlement runoff.
      (3)   The premise of LID is that storm water is an asset and necessary
element in the natural environment and it should not be managed for “disposal”.
      (4)   The approach emphasizes the integration of site design and planning
techniques in order to design the built environment so that it remains a
functioning part of an ecosystem, rather than existing apart from it.
      (5)   Specifically, LID aims to:
         (a)   Preserve open space and minimize land disturbance;
         (b)   Protect natural systems and processes (drainage ways,
vegetation, soils and sensitive areas);
         (c)   Reexamine the use and sizing of traditional site infrastructure
(lots, streets, curbs, gutters, sidewalks) and customize site design to each
site;
         (d)   Incorporate natural site elements (wetlands, stream corridors,
mature forests) as design elements; and
         (e)   Decentralize and micromanage storm water at its source.
   (B)   (1)   Each establishment larger than 80,000 square feet shall
contribute to the enhancement of the community, environment and public spaces
by infiltrating storm water onsite to the greatest possible extent.
      (2)   Low impact development strategies to be considered, but are not
limited to:
         (a)   Reduced street width;
         (b)   Use of pervious pavements;
         (c)   Use of bio-retention/rainwater gardens and/or infiltration
swales along roads and parking lots and within parking lots;
         (d)   Amending/restoring soils to increase infiltration;
         (e)   Preserve existing vegetation;
         (f)   Constructing wetlands for storm water treatment;
         (g)   Disconnecting impervious surfaces; and
         (h)   Installing green roofs.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fea97f17e63fa05fca36cd209d09d1e24a0c1ae4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1349.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 24, Art. I, 9)
§ 154.124 FACADES AND EXTERIOR WALLS.
   (A)   (1)   Facades should be articulated to reduce the massive scale and
the uniform, impersonal appearances of large retail buildings and provide
visual interest that will be consistent with the community’s identity,
character and scale.
      (2)   The intent is to encourage a more human scale that City residents
will be able to identify with their community.
   (B)   (1)   Any facade greater than 100 feet in length, measured
horizontally, shall incorporate wall plane projections or recesses having a
depth of at least 3% of the length of the facade and extending at least 20% of
the length of the facade.
      (2)   No uninterrupted length of any facade shall exceed 100 horizontal
feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fea97f17e63fa05fca36cd209d09d1e24a0c1ae4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1351.jpg]
 
      (3)   Ground floor facades that face public streets shall have arcades,
display windows, entry areas, awnings or other such features along no less than
60% of their horizontal length.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fea97f17e63fa05fca36cd209d09d1e24a0c1ae4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1353.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 24, Art. II, 1)
§ 154.125 DETAIL FEATURES AND LOCAL CHARACTER.
   (A)   (1)   Buildings should have architectural features and patterns that
provide visual interest, at the scale of the pedestrian, reduce massive
aesthetic effects and recognize local character.
      (2)   The elements in the following standard should be integral parts of
the building fabric and not superficially applied trim or graphics or paint.
   (B)   (1)   Any building facade must include a repeating pattern that shall
include no less than three of the elements listed below. At least one of these
elements shall repeat horizontally. All elements shall repeat at intervals of
no more than 30 feet, either horizontally or vertically:
         (a)   Color change;
         (b)   Texture change;
         (c)   Material module change; and
         (d)   Expression of architectural or structural bay through a change
in plane no less than 12 inches in width, such as an offset, reveal or
projecting rib.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fea97f17e63fa05fca36cd209d09d1e24a0c1ae4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1355.jpg]
 
      (2)   Design elements, styles and motifs based on historic City buildings
shall be incorporated into the overall structure design.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fea97f17e63fa05fca36cd209d09d1e24a0c1ae4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1357.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 24, Art. II, 2)
§ 154.126 ROOFS.
   (A)   Variations in roof lines should be used to add interest to, and reduce
the massive scale of, large buildings. Roof features should complement the
character of adjoining neighborhoods.
   (B)   Roofs shall have no less than two of the following features on any
side:
      (1)   Parapets concealing flat roofs and rooftop equipment such as HVAC
units from public view. The average height of the parapets shall not exceed 15%
of the height of the supporting wall and the parapets shall not at any point
exceed one-third of the height of the supporting wall. The parapets shall
feature three dimensional cornice treatment;
      (2)   Overhanging eaves, extending no less than three feet past the
supporting walls;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fea97f17e63fa05fca36cd209d09d1e24a0c1ae4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1359.jpg]
 
      (3)   Sloping roofs that do not exceed the average height of the
supporting walls, with an average slope greater than or equal to one foot of
vertical rise for every three feet of horizontal run and less than or equal to
one foot of vertical rise for every one foot of horizontal run; and
      (4)   Three or more roof slope planes.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 24, Art. II, 3)
§ 154.127 MATERIALS AND COLORS.
   (A)   (1)   Exterior building materials and colors comprise a significant
part of the visual impact of a building.
      (2)   Therefore, they should be aesthetically pleasing and compatible
with materials and colors used in adjoining neighborhoods.
   (B)   (1)   Predominant exterior building materials shall be high quality
materials. These include, without limitation:
         (a)   Brick;
         (b)   Wood;
         (c)   Stone; and
         (d)   Tinted, textured, concrete masonry units.
      (2)   Facade colors shall be low reflectance, subtle, neutral or earth
tone colors. The use of high intensity colors, metallic colors, black or
fluorescent colors are prohibited.
      (3)   Building trim and accent areas may feature brighter colors,
including primary colors, but neon tubing shall not be an acceptable feature
for building trim or accent areas.
      (4)   Predominant exterior building materials should not include the
following:
         (a)   Smooth-faced concrete block;
         (b)   Tilt-up concrete panels; and
         (c)   Pre-fabricated steel panels.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 24, Art. II, 4)
§ 154.128 ENTRYWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   Entryway design elements and variations should give orientation
and aesthetically pleasing character to the building.
      (2)   The standards identify desirable entryway design features.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Each principal building on a site shall have clearly
defined, highly visible customer entrances featuring no less than three of the
following:
            1.   Canopies or porticos;
            2.   Overhangs;
            3.   Recesses/projections;
            4.   Arcades;
            5.   Raised corniced parapets over the door;
            6.   Peaked roof forms;
            7.   Arches;
            8.   Outdoor patios;
            9.   Display windows;
            10.   Architectural details such as tile work and moldings which
are integrated into the building structure and design; and
            11.   Integral planters or wing walls that incorporate landscaped
areas and/or places for sitting.
         (b)   Where additional stores will be located in the principal
building, each such store shall have at least one exterior customer entrance,
which shall conform to the above requirements.
      (2)   Deciduous and/or ornamental trees are required near the front
entrance of buildings. Deciduous trees shall be planted a minimum of 20 feet
and ornamental trees a minimum of 15 feet from the building(s).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fea97f17e63fa05fca36cd209d09d1e24a0c1ae4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1361.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 24, Art. II, 5)
TREE PRESERVATION AND MANAGEMENT PRACTICES
§ 154.140 PURPOSE.
   The City finds it is in the best interest of the public to design
subdivisions that preserve trees and minimize tree removal during land
development. Through specific design and management practices, the City seeks
to protect and preserve wooded areas to the greatest extent possible.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 25, sub. 1)
§ 154.141 SCOPE AND APPLICATION.
   A tree preservation goal shall be established for all subdivisions. A tree
inventory and preservation plan may be required for submittal and approval by
the City depending on overall preservation goals. A tree protection management
plan shall be submitted to and approved by the City and implemented for all
subdivisions. If no significant trees or woodlands are present on the site,
tree preservation goals and plans will not be required.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 25, sub. 2)
§ 154.142 SUBDIVISION APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General design standards.
      (1)   Incorporate the preservation of trees into the overall design of
the plat through the sensitive placement of roads and developed lots;
      (2)   Structures, structure pad siting, parking areas and driveways shall
be designed to “fit” existing topography and tree cover to the maximum feasible
extent;
      (3)   The design and location of utilities and installation methods shall
preserve trees to the greatest extent practicable;
      (4)   Retaining walls shall be used where appropriate to manage grade
changes in order to protect trees;
      (5)   Shared driveways and other design features shall be explored in
order to protect trees;
      (6)   Flexibility on street standards and setback requirements shall be
explored in order to protect trees; and
      (7)   Trees shall be preserved in areas of steep slopes and unstable
soils as well as in areas needed to protect and preserve existing drainage
patterns.
   (B)   Tree preservation goal setting, review process and submittal
requirements.
      (1)   The applicant shall meet with City staff prior to submittal of the
concept plan to determine the most feasible and practical placement of
buildings, parking, driveways, streets, storage and other physical features, in
order that the fewest trees are destroyed or damaged.
      (2)   During the concept design and review phase, goals for the
preservation of trees shall be determined by the Planning Commission and City
Council based on the general quantity, quality and location of trees. A 60 to
70% goal for the preservation of canopy cover in the plat will typically be
considered; however, a higher or lower percentage may be set depending on the
topography, soils and drainage patterns. Total canopy cover will be determined
using aerial photography. Proposed grading limits shall be overlaid on the
aerial photo. Canopy cover within the grading limits is assumed to be removed
and canopy cover outside of the grading limits is assumed to be preserved.
Percentage of cover removed and saved shall be submitted for concept review.
Achievement of the tree preservation goal will be evaluated as part of
preliminary plat approval.
      (3)   (a)   For concepts not meeting the preservation goal determined for
the plat, a tree inventory and preservation plan shall be required for all
areas within the grading limits of the plan and submitted as part of the
preliminary plat submittal requirements. The inventory shall be completed for
all trees over four inches DBH (diameter at breast height as measured at 54
inches above the ground). The purpose of the tree inventory is to assess the
impact on trees and guide the development of a preservation plan through
alternative designs that will achieve the overall preservation goal determined
for the plat.
         (b)   Based on the tree inventory, lots with ten or more trees over
four inches (DBH) shall be designated as custom graded lots in the preservation
plan, unless exempted by the City. The lots shall not be included in mass
grading at time of street and utility installation. The siting of structures
and grading plans for each custom graded lot shall be reviewed and approved as
part of the building permit approval process.
         (c)   The tree inventory and preservation plan shall be submitted by a
forester or landscape architect retained by the applicant and shall consist of
the following items:
            1.   Location of all trees within the grading limits on the
property being platted with an ID number that corresponds to the inventory;
            2.   Tree inventory that includes the size (DBH), species and ID
number of all trees within the grading limits;
            3.   Areas of mass grading;
            4.   Designated lots to be custom graded at time of building permit
application;
            5.   Trees proposed to be saved and trees proposed to be removed;
and
            6.   Tree protection zones located within the drip line around
trees to be saved.
         (d)   The tree inventory and preservation plan will be evaluated as
part of the preliminary plat review process for conformance to the tree
preservation goal established by the City in the concept plan phase.
   (C)   Tree protection management practices. All subdivisions must comply
with the following tree protection management practices unless exempted by the
City. The practices shall implement any tree preservation plan approved by the
City as part of the preliminary plat approval process:
      (1)   Tree removal procedures including directional felling away from
existing trees to be saved and trenching to separate root systems prior to
bulldozing trees or stumps;
      (2)   Installation of signage at all tree protection areas that instructs
workers to stay out;
      (3)   Installation of fencing or safety netting to designate the tree
protection zone for all tree to be preserved as identified in the tree
preservation plan (if required) or as determined by the tree preservation goal
determined at concept phase; (The safety netting shall be located at the drip
line around all trees to be saved for all trees in the area being platted. The
City must approve the location of all safety netting.)
      (4)   Designation of a construction staging area along with a designated
area for the storage of equipment and stockpiling of materials that is not
within tree protection zone or buffer areas;
      (5)   Construction access locations that minimize impact on tree
preservation;
      (6)   No grading permit will be approved nor soil disturbance occur
within the subdivision until the development agreement is approved, and tree
protection management practices are in place on site;
      (7)   Fill shall not be placed against tree trunks, within the drip line,
or in critical root zones of trees to be saved;
      (8)   Pruning of oak trees shall not take place from April 1 through
October. If wounding of oak trees occurs, a non-toxic tree wound dressing must
be applied immediately. Excavators shall have a non-toxic tree wound dressing
with them at the work site;
      (9)   Tree protection measures shall remain in place until all grading
and construction is completed; and
      (10)   Creation of a temporary access road. When temporary site access
through a significant tree stand or a critical root zone of a significant tree
to be saved is necessary, it shall meet the following standards.
         (a)   The temporary access road shall be routed in a manner that is
least disruptive to the significant tree stand per the approval of the Zoning
Administrator.
         (b)   Temporary access roads shall not exceed 25 feet in width and
shall be delineated by snow fencing or safety fencing.
         (c)   An eight-inch deep cover of wood chip mulch shall be placed over
the temporary access road to cushion the critical root zones from compaction.
         (d)   The temporary access road shall be removed as soon as other
access routes become available.
   (D)   Certification of tree protection management plan implementation. After
mass grading has been completed and streets and utilities installed, the
subdivider’s forester or landscape architect shall:
      (1)   Certify in writing to the City the status of all trees to be saved
or removed as stated in the approved tree protection management plan; and
      (2)   Certify in writing to the City that all tree protection measures
were installed.
   (E)   Financial security. The developer shall provide a financial guarantee
acceptable to the City as part of the development agreement to guarantee the
preparation and implementation of the tree protection management plan and the
replacement of all trees which were to be saved, but were actually destroyed or
damaged. The financial security shall be in an amount as determined by the
City. The financial security will be released upon approval by the City,
following, certification in writing by the forester or landscape architect
indicating that the tree protection management practices were installed on mass
graded lots and any tree replacement is completed.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 25, sub. 3)
§ 154.143 CUSTOM GRADED LOTS/HOME BUILDER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Submittal requirements. Home builders shall furnish the following
items for tree preservation at the time the building permit application is
submitted for all lots designated as custom graded lots on the subdivision tree
preservation plan (if required):
      (1)   A proposed lot grading/tree preservation plan. The tree inventory
created by the subdivider shall be used as the base for the lot grading/tree
preservation plan. The home builder shall meet with City staff to review the
proposed plan to determine the placement of the home where the fewest trees
would be destroyed or damaged. The individual lot tree preservation/grading
plan shall be approved by City staff prior to issuance of a building permit.
Site grading for individual lots shall be consistent with the final grading
plan of the plat;
      (2)   A tree protection management plan consistent with the requirements
of §
154.142(C) of this chapter; and
      (3)   A financial security acceptable to the City in the amount of $350
per tree designated to be saved. Builders shall be liable for their
subcontractors that destroy or damage trees that were indicated to be saved on
the individual lot tree preservation plan.
   (B)   Certification of plan implementation.
      (1)   The Building Inspector shall monitor the tree protection management
practices at the time of routine inspections.
      (2)   Prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy and release of
tree preservation security, the Building Inspector shall certify in writing the
final disposition of saved trees on the lot and that all the tree protection
measures identified on the tree preservation plan were installed from the start
of construction to the end of construction and tree replacement is completed,
if necessary.
      (3)   If tree replacement is required on the individual lot because the
builder destroyed or damaged a tree which was to be saved, the Building
Inspector in conjunction with the property owner/builder shall determine where
the replacement tree shall be installed. Tree replacement shall be consistent
with §
154.144 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 25, sub. 4)
§ 154.144 TREE REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   Subdividers and/or home builders shall be required to replace trees
which were indicated on the tree protection management plan to be saved but
ultimately were destroyed or damaged. The subdivider and home builder shall be
required to replace each tree destroyed or damaged with two replacement trees.
   (B)   Replacement trees may consist of existing trees moved from a tree
removal zone or nursery stock and be a species similar to the trees which were
destroyed or damaged, and be approved by the City. All replacement trees shall
meet the following size requirements:
      (1)   Deciduous trees: no less than two and one-half inches in diameter
(DBH); and
      (2)   Coniferous trees: no less than six feet high.
   (C)   Replacement trees shall not be placed on easements or street rights-
of-way. The Zoning Administrator shall determine the locations of tree
replacement for subdivider’s tree plans.
   (D)   Any replacement tree which is not alive or healthy, as determined by
the Zoning Administrator, or which subsequently dies within one year after the
date of planting, shall be removed by the developer/builder and replaced with a
new healthy tree meeting the same minimum size requirements within eight months
of removal.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 25, sub. 5)
§ 154.145 COMPLIANCE WITH PLAN.
   The applicant shall implement the tree preservation and tree protection
management plans prior to and during any construction. The tree protection
practices of the plan shall remain in place until all grading and construction
activity is terminated, and a release approved by the City. The City shall have
the right to inspect the development and/or building site in order to determine
compliance with the approved tree preservation and protection management plan.
The City shall determine whether compliance with these plans have been
achieved.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 25, sub. 6)
SIGNS
§ 154.160 FINDINGS, PURPOSE AND EFFECT.
   (A)   Findings. The City Council hereby finds as follows:
      (1)   Exterior signs have a substantial impact on the character and
quality of the environment;
      (2)   Signs provide an important medium through which individuals may
convey a variety of messages;
      (3)   Signs can create traffic hazards, aesthetic concerns and detriments
to property values, thereby threatening the public health, safety and welfare;
and
      (4)   The City code has included the regulation of signs in an effort to
provide adequate means of expression and to promote the economic viability of
the business community, while protecting the City and its citizens from a
proliferation of signs of a type, size, location and character that would
adversely impact the aesthetics of the community and threaten the health,
safety and welfare of the community. The regulation of physical characteristics
of signs within the City has had a positive impact on traffic safety and the
overall appearance of the community.
   (B)   Purpose and intent. It is not the purpose or intent of this subchapter
to regulate the message displayed on any sign; nor is it the purpose or intent
of this subchapter to regulate any building design or any display not defined
as a sign, or any sign which cannot be viewed from outside a building. The
purpose and intent of this subchapter is to:
      (1)   Regulate the number, location, size, type, illumination and other
physical characteristics of signs within the City in order to promote the
public health, safety and welfare;
      (2)   Maintain, enhance and improve the aesthetic environment of the City
by preventing visual clutter that is harmful to the appearance of the
community;
      (3)   Improve the visual appearance of the City, while providing for
effective means of communication, consistent with constitutional guarantees and
the City’s goals of public safety and aesthetics; and
      (4)   Provide for fair and consistent enforcement of the sign regulations
set for herein under the zoning authority of the City.
   (C)   Effect. A sign may be erected, mounted, displayed or maintained in the
City if it is in conformance with the provisions of these regulations. The
effect of this subchapter, as more specifically set forth herein, is to:
      (1)   Allow a wide variety of sign types in commercial zones and a more
limited variety of signs in other zones, subject to the standards set forth in
this subchapter;
      (2)   Allow certain small, unobtrusive signs incidental to the principal
use of a site in all zoning districts, subject to the standards set forth in
this subchapter;
      (3)   Prohibit signs whose location, size, type, illumination or other
physical characteristics negatively affect the environment and where the
communication can be accomplished by means having a lesser impact on the
environment and the public health, safety and welfare; and
      (4)   Provide for the enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 27, sub. 1)
§ 154.161 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED SIGN. Any sign and/or its supporting sign structure which remains
without a message or whose display surface remains blank for a period of six
months or more, or any sign which pertains to a time, event or purpose which no
longer applies, shall be deemed to have been ABANDONED. Signs applicable to a
business temporarily suspended because of a change in ownership or management
of the business shall not be deemed abandoned unless the property remains
vacant for a period of one year or more. Any sign remaining after demolition of
a principal structure shall be deemed to be ABANDONED. Signs which are present
because of being legally established non-conforming signs or signs which have
required a conditional use permit or a variance shall also be subject to the
definition of ABANDONED SIGN. Signs for which permit fees have not been paid
shall be classified as abandoned.
   AWNING. A roof-like cover, often of fabric, plastic, metal or glass designed
and intended for protection from the weather or as a decorative embellishment,
and which projects from a wall or roof of a structure primarily over a window,
walk or the like. Any part of an awning which also projects over a door shall
be counted as an AWNING.
   AWNING SIGN. A building sign or graphic printed on or in some fashion
attached directly to the awning material.
   BALLOON SIGN. A sign consisting of a bag made of lightweight material
supported by helium, hot or pressurized air which is greater than 24 inches in
diameter.
   BANNER. A sign constructed of a strip of durable fabric or material on which
a message is printed.
   BILLBOARD. See OFF-PREMISES SIGN.
   BUILDING SIGN. Any sign attached or supported by any building.
   CANOPY. A roof-like cover, often of fabric, plastic, metal or glass on a
support, which provides shelter over an entrance or window.
   CANOPY SIGN. Any sign that is part of or attached to a canopy, made of
fabric, plastic or structural protective cover over an entrance or window. A
CANOPY SIGN is not a marquee and is different from a canopy and related signage
over a fuel station service area.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign or portion thereof that has a reader board for
the display of text information in which each alphanumeric character, graphic
or symbol is defined by objects not consisting of an illumination device and
may be changed or rearranged manually or mechanically with characters,
illustrations, letters or numbers that can be changed or rearranged without
altering the face or surface of the sign structure.
   COMMERCIAL SPEECH. Speech advertising a business, profession, commodity,
service or entertainment.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A sign designed to guide or direct pedestrian or vehicular
traffic to an area, place or convenience and may include incidental graphics
such as trade names and trademarks.
   DYNAMIC DISPLAY SIGN. A sign or portion thereof that displays electronic
information in which each alphanumeric character, graphic or symbol is defined
by a small number of matrix elements using different combinations of light
emitting diodes (LEDs), fiber optics, light bulbs or other illumination devices
within the display area. The signs include computer programmable,
microprocessor controlled electronic displays. The signs include projected
images or messages with these characteristics onto buildings or objects.
   ELECTRONIC CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. See DYNAMIC DISPLAY SIGN.
   ELEVATION. The view of the side, front or rear of a given structure(s).
   ELEVATION AREA. The area of all walls that face any lot line.
   ERECT. Activity of constructing, building, raising, assembling, placing,
affixing, attaching, creating, painting, drawing or any other way of bringing
into being or establishing.
   FLAG. Any fabric or similar lightweight material attached at one end of the
material, usually to a staff or pole, so as to allow movement of the material
by atmospheric changes and which contains distinctive colors, patterns,
symbols, emblems, insignia or other symbolic devices.
   FLASHING SIGN. A directly or indirectly illuminated sign or portion thereof
that exhibits changing light or color effect by any means, so as to provide
intermittent illumination that changes light intensity in sudden transitory
bursts and creates the illusion of intermittent flashing light by streaming,
graphic bursts showing movement or any mode of lighting which resembles
zooming, twinkling or sparkling.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. Any sign which has supporting framework that is placed
on, or anchored in, the ground and which is independent from any building or
other structure.
   GRADE. The final ground elevation after construction. Earth mounding
criteria for landscaping and screening is not part of the final GRADE for sign
height computation.
   GROUND SIGN. Any freestanding sign with its sign face mounted on the ground
or mounted on a base at least as wide as the sign and which has a total height
not exceeding eight feet.
   HEIGHT OF SIGN. The height of the sign shall be computed as the vertical
distance measured from the base of the sign at grade to the top of the highest
attached component of the sign.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign which contains an element designed to emanate
artificial light internally or externally.
   MARQUEE. Any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building or
extending along and projecting beyond the wall of that building, generally
designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
   MARQUEE SIGN. Any building sign painted, mounted, constructed or attached in
any manner, on a marquee.
   MULTI-VISION SIGN. Any sign composed in whole or part of a series of
vertical or horizontal slats or cylinders that are capable of being rotated at
intervals so that partial rotation of the group of slats or cylinders produces
a different image and when properly functioning allows on a single sign
structure the display at any given time one of two or more images.
   MULTIPLE TENANT SITE. Any site which has more than one tenant, and each
tenant has a separate ground level exterior public entrance.
   NON-COMMERCIAL SPEECH. Dissemination of messages not classified as
commercial speech which include, but are not limited to, messages concerning
political, religious, social, ideological, public service and informational
topics.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A commercial speech sign which directs the attention of
the public to a business, activity conducted or product sold or offered at a
location not on the same lot where such sign is located. For purposes of this
subchapter, easements and other appurtenances shall be considered to be outside
the lot and any sign located or proposed to be located in an easement or other
appurtenance shall be considered an OFF-PREMISES SIGN.
   OFFICIAL SIGN. Signs of a public non-commercial nature including public
notification signs, safety signs, traffic signs, direction to public facilities
when erected by or on behalf of a public official or employee in the
performance of official duty.
   ON-PREMISES SIGN. A commercial speech sign which directs the attention of
the public to a business activity conducted, or product sold or offered at a
location on the same lot where the sign is located.
   OWNER. In the case of a lot, the legal owner of the lot as officially
recorded by the county, and including fee owners, contract for deed purchasers
and ground lessees. In the case of a sign, the OWNER of the sign including any
lessees.
   PENNANTS. A sign constructed of a durable fabric which may or may not
contain a printed message.
   POLE SIGN. See PYLON SIGN.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign which is manifestly designed to be transported,
including by trailer or on its own wheels, even though the wheels of the sign
may be removed and the remaining chassis or support is converted to another
sign or attached temporarily or permanently to the ground since this
characteristic is based on the design of such a sign; a temporary sign.
   PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign which is affixed to a building or wall in a manner
that its leading edge extends more than two feet beyond the surface of the
building or wall face.
   PUBLIC NOTICES. Official notices posted by public officers, employees or
their agents in the performance of their duties, or as directed by the
officers, employees or agents.
   PUBLIC STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire right-of-way of any public street.
   PYLON SIGN. Any freestanding sign which has its supportive structure(s)
anchored in the ground and which has a sign face elevated above ground level by
pole(s) or beam(s) and with the area below the sign face open.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. Any district zoned for residential uses.
   ROOF. The exterior surface and its supporting structure on the top of a
building or structure. The structural make-up of which conforms to the roof
structures, roof construction and roof covering sections of the International
Building Code.
   ROOF LINE. The upper-most edge of the roof or in the case of an extended
facade or parapet, the upper-most height of the facade.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected and constructed wholly on and above the roof of
a building, supported by the roof structure and extending vertically above the
highest portion of the roof.
   ROOF SIGN, INTEGRAL. Any building sign erected or constructed as an integral
or essentially integral part of a normal roof structure of any design, so that
no part of the sign extends vertically above the highest portion of the roof
and so that no part of the sign is separated from the rest of the roof by a
space of more than six inches.
   ROTATING SIGN. A sign or portion of a sign which turns about on an axis.
   SHIMMERING SIGN. A sign which reflects an oscillating sometimes distorted
visual image.
   SIGN. Any letter, word or symbol, poster, picture, statuary, reading matter
or representation in the nature of advertisement, announcement, message or
visual communication, whether painted, posted, printed, affixed or constructed,
including all associated brackets, braces, supports, wires and structures,
which is displayed for informational or communicative purposes.
   SIGN FACE. The surface of the sign upon, against or through which the
message of the sign is exhibited.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure including the supports, uprights, bracing and
framework which supports or is capable of supporting any sign.
   SITE. A lot or combination of contiguous lots which are intended, designated
and/or approved to function as an integrated unit.
   SUSPENDED SIGN. Any building sign that is suspended from the underside of a
horizontal plane surface and is connected to this surface.
   TIME AND TEMPERATURE SIGN. A sign that displays only current time and
temperature information.
   TOTAL SITE SIGNAGE. The maximum permitted combined area of all signs allowed
on a specific lot.
   VIDEO DISPLAY SIGN. See DYNAMIC DISPLAY SIGN.
   VISIBILITY TRIANGLE. The visibility triangle shall be determined as follows;
starting at the intersection of the property lines along the intersecting
streets, measure away from the point of intersection a distance of 30 feet
along both property lines. Connect these points with an imaginary line. The
VISIBILITY TRIANGLE shall be the triangle defined by the two property lines and
the imaginary line.
   VISIBLE. Capable of being seen by a person of normal visual acuity (whether
legible or not) without visual aid.
   WALL. Any structure which defines the exterior boundaries or courts of a
building or structure and which has a slope of 60 degrees or greater with the
horizontal plane.
   WALL SIGN. Any building sign attached parallel to, but within two feet of a
wall, painted on the wall surface of, or erected and confined within the limits
of an outside wall of any building or structure, which is supported by the wall
or building, and which displays only one sign surface.
   WINDOW SIGN. Any building sign, pictures, symbol, or combination thereof,
designed to communicate information about an activity, business, commodity,
event, sale or service, that is placed inside a window or upon the window panes
or glass and is visible from the exterior of the window.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 27, sub. 2)
§ 154.162 SUBSTITUTION.
   The owner of any sign which is otherwise allowed by this subchapter may
substitute non-commercial copy in lieu of any other commercial or non-
commercial copy. This substitution of copy may be made without any additional
approval or permitting. The purpose of this provision is to prevent any
inadvertent favoring of commercial speech over non-commercial speech, or
favoring of any particular non-commercial message over any other non-commercial
message. This provision prevails over any more specific provision to the
contrary.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 27, sub. 3)
§ 154.163 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this subchapter is
for any reason held to be invalid, the decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this subchapter. The City Council hereby declares
that it would have adopted this subchapter in each section, division, sentence
or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
divisions, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 27, sub. 4)
§ 154.164 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Application submission requirements. No sign or structure shall be
erected, constructed, altered, rebuilt or relocated until a permit has first
been issued by the Zoning Administrator, except as provided for in §
154.165 of this chapter. The following information for a sign permit shall be
supplied on an application for a sign permit:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of person making application;
      (2)   Name, address and telephone number of person owning sign;
      (3)   The name, address telephone number and signature of the person
owning the property upon which the sign is to be located;
      (4)   A site plan to scale showing the location of lot lines, building
structures, parking areas, existing and proposed signs;
      (5)   A scaled elevation showing the height and width of the front of the
building;
      (6)   An accurately dimensioned drawing of the sign indicating the
following: support system, sign material, dimensions and height, size of the
lettering and content of the message on the sign;
      (7)   Plans, location and specifications and method of construction and
attachment to the buildings or placement method in the ground;
      (8)   Landscape and lighting plans for area around signs;
      (9)   Written consent of the owner or lessee of any site on which the
sign is to be erected;
      (10)   Any electrical permit required and issued for the sign;
      (11)   Future maintenance plans;
      (12)   Sign value; and
      (13)   The applicant shall certify that the application is in full
compliance with this chapter and all other applicable provisions of the City
code.
   (B)   Application processing and action.
      (1)   Within 15 working days of receiving an application for a sign
permit, the Zoning Administrator shall review it for completeness. If the
application is complete, it shall then be processed. If the Zoning
Administrator finds that it is incomplete, the Zoning Administrator shall,
within the 15-working day period, send to the applicant a notice of the
specific ways in which the application is deficient, with appropriate
references to the applicable sections of this chapter and/or the City code.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a complete application, the Zoning Administrator
shall review and comment upon application and shall either:
         (a)   Issue the sign permit, if the sign(s) that is the subject of the
application conforms in every respect with the requirements of this chapter and
the City code; or
         (b)   Reject the sign permit if the sign(s) that is the subject of the
application fails in any way to conform with the requirements of this chapter
and the City code.
      (3)   In case of a rejection, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the
applicant in writing specifying the reasons for rejection or inconsistencies
with this chapter and/or the City code.
      (4)   If the work authorized under a permit has not been initiated within
one year after the date of issuance, the permit shall be null and void.
   (C)   Fees. Fees for the review and processing of sign permit applications
shall be imposed in accordance with the schedule established by §
34.01 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Inspection. All signs shall be subject to inspection by the Zoning
Administrator and/or Building Official upon installation to ensure compliance
with plans.
   (E)   Removal of signs.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator and/or Building Official shall order the
removal of any illegal non-conforming sign erected or maintained in violation
of this subchapter. Notice in writing shall be given by the City to the owner
of the sign, or of the building, structure or property on which the sign is
located, to remove the sign or to bring it into compliance with the provisions
of this section within 15 days from the date of the notice.
      (2)   Upon failure to remove the sign or to comply with this notice, the
City may remove the sign. Any costs of removal incurred by the City shall be
assessed to the owner of the property on which the sign is located and may be
collected in the manner of ordinary debt or in the manner of taxes and all
costs shall be assessed against the property.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator and/or Building Official may order the
immediate removal of any sign without notice, which is in violation of the
following:
         (a)   Signs located within the public right-of-way;
         (b)   Temporary signs that have exceeded the time limits allowed in
this section; and
         (c)   The condition of the sign is such as to present an immediate
threat to the safety of the public.
   (F)   Violations. Violations of this section is a misdemeanor. Each day that
the violation continues is a separate offense.
   (G)   Exemptions, no permit required. The following signs shall not require
a permit. These exemptions, however, shall not be construed as relieving the
owner of the sign from the responsibility of its erection and maintenance, and
its compliance with the provisions of this chapter or any other law or
ordinance regulating the same:
      (1)   The changing of the display surface of any permitted sign
structure;
      (2)   Signs two square feet or less in size;
      (3)   One sign per property in residential districts that is six square
feet or less in size and no more than eight feet in height;
      (4)    All non-commercial signs of any size posted in any number
beginning 46 days before the state primary in a state general election year
until ten days following the state general election, and 90 days prior to any
special election until ten days following the special election in accordance
with M.S. § 211B.045, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (5)   Window signs are allowed; however, visibility and public safety
shall not be compromised;
      (6)   Any signs in the public interest, erected by, or on the order of,
public officers in the performance of their public duty, such as directional
signs, regulatory signs, warning signs and informational signs and all warning
signs posted by public utilities whether or not such signs are in the public
rights-of-way;
      (7)   One sign shall be allowed per street frontage when a building is
offered for sale or lease, in non-residential areas or where the parcel of land
exceeds ten acres; no sign shall exceed 64 square feet in area or ten feet in
height;
      (8)   Banners, pennants and similar devices if no more than 25% of total
area allowed for signs and if the signs are changed at least every 60 days. All
signs must be well secured; and
      (9)   Portable signs less than six square feet on public sidewalks in the
Downtown Commercial (B-1) and Hester Street Business (HSB) Districts.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 27, sub. 5; Ord. 2020-06, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 154.165 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided for by this section, all signs shall be defined as
an accessory use.
   (B)   No signs, other than those of governmental jurisdictions, shall be
permitted within public right-of-way or roadway easements.
   (C)   No sign or sign structure, unless otherwise regulated by this section,
shall be closer to any right-of-way than five feet, unless a conditional use
permit is granted for placement less than this. On corner lots, no sign shall
be located between two and one-half feet and eight feet of ground level within
the visibility triangle or within 20 feet of a non-single-family residential
access drive.
   (D)   No sign shall be placed within any drainage or utility easement.
   (E)   No signs, guys, stays or attachments shall be erected, placed or
maintained on fences, or trees, nor interfere with any electric light, power,
telephone or telegraph wires or the supports thereof, with the exception of
signs necessary for security, or to preserve public safety, as determined by
the City Council.
   (F)   No sign shall be attached or be allowed to hang from any building
until all necessary wall and roof attachments have been approved by the City’s
Building Official.
   (G)   No sign shall be permitted to obstruct any window, door, fire escape,
stairway or opening intended to provide light, air, ingress or egress of any
building or structure.
   (H)   The installation of electrical signs shall be subject to the state’s
Electrical Code. Electrical service to the sign shall be underground.
   (I)   Illuminated signs shall be shielded to prevent lights from being
directed upward into the sky, onto residential property or at oncoming traffic
in such brilliance that it impairs the vision of the driver, nor shall such
signs interfere with or obscure an official traffic sign or signal. This
includes indoor signs which are visible from public streets and highways.
Lighting for all outdoor signs shall be turned off by 10:00 p.m. within
residential districts.
   (J)   Landscaping shall be in conformance to general performance standards
described in §
154.071 of this chapter.
   (K)   Signs and sign structures shall be properly maintained and kept in a
safe condition. Sign or sign structures which are rotted, unsafe, deteriorated
or defaced, as determined by the City’s Building Official or Zoning
Administrator, shall be removed, repainted, repaired or replaced by the permit
holder, owner or agent of the property upon which the sign stands.
   (L)   The owner, lessee or manager of any ground sign and the owner of the
land on which the same is located shall keep grass or weeds and other growth
cut and debris and rubbish cleaned up and removed from the lot on which a sign
is located.
   (M)   Except for farm buildings, at least one sign identifying the correct
property number as assigned by the county shall be required on each principal
building in all districts. The number shall be at least three inches in height.
   (N)   Existing off-premises signs greater than two square feet erected prior
to the effective date of this chapter are an allowed use subject to the
following requirements:
      (1)   The sign is defined as a principal use of the property upon which
it is located. No approval shall be granted for a another principal use on any
portion of a property being platted or otherwise being subdivided when one of
the principal uses on any portion of the subject property is a billboard
allowed by this section;
      (2)   The area of the sign shall not exceed 300 square feet;
      (3)   The structure shall not exceed 25 feet in height; and
      (4)   Annual permits are required for all off-premises signs. Off-
premises signs must be removed as a condition of construction of another
principal use upon the property or platting or subdivision approval for the
land on which it is located. Signs for which permit fees have not been paid
shall be classified as abandoned and removed as directed by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (O)   Portable signs require an annual permit. The annual permit allows up
to six display periods over 12 months. Each display period shall not exceed
more than 21 consecutive days. The following standards apply to the display of
portable signs:
      (1)   Sign contains no flashing lights;
      (2)   Sign is not located in the right-of-way;
      (3)   Sign area is 32 square feet or less, including any device the sign
is attached to;
      (4)   Sign is well maintained;
      (5)   Sign area is within the allowed area for the property. Applicant
must complete application demonstrating compliance with area requirements; and
      (6)   Decision on annual permit renewal shall be based on compliance with
performance standards.
   (P)   Dynamic display signs are allowed only on freestanding signs for
conditionally permitted uses in residential districts and for all uses in other
districts. The signs may occupy no more than 35% of the allowed area for
freestanding signs. The remainder of the sign must not have the capability to
have dynamic displays even if not used. Only one contiguous dynamic display
area is allowed on a sign face; all such signs must meet the following
performance standards.
      (1)   The size and location of the sign shall be consistent with all
other requirements of the sign ordinance.
      (2)   The electronic display background color tones, lettering, logos,
pictures, illustrations, symbols and any other electronic graphic or video
display shall not blink, flash, rotate, scroll, change in illumination
intensity or otherwise change in outward appearance, except when the electronic
message or display is changed to another message or display.
      (3)   The electronic display background color tones, lettering, logos,
pictures, illustrations, symbols and any other electronic graphic or video
display for on-site advertising signs shall not change at intervals less than
eight seconds.
      (4)   The electronic display background color tones, lettering, logos,
pictures, illustrations, symbols and any other electronic graphic or video
display for off-site advertising signs shall not change at intervals less than
20 minutes.
      (5)   The transition of the electronic image or message shall be
immediate, no fade in or fade out.
      (6)   All electronic messaging signs must be equipped with a default
mechanism that will stop the messaging or freeze the image in one position when
a malfunction in electronic programming occurs.
      (7)   Electronic messaging signs must not exceed a maximum illumination
of 5,000 nits (candelas per square meter) during daylight hours and a maximum
illumination of 500 nits (candelas per square meter) between dusk to dawn as
measured from the sign’s face at maximum brightness.
      (8)   Electronic messaging signs must have an automatic dimmer control to
produce a distinct illumination change from a higher illumination level to a
lower level for the time period between one-half hour before sunset and one-
half hour after sunrise.
      (9)   Audio speakers are not allowed with any electronic messaging sign,
except as provided in below.
      (10)   Any form of pyrotechnics is prohibited in association with an
electronic messaging sign.
      (11)   Permitted electronic messaging signs, not facing public roads or
residential properties and used in drive-through restaurants, gasoline stations
and similar establishments serving motorists, shall be exempt from divisions
(P)(1) through (P)(10) above; provided, the electronic messaging sign area does
not exceed eight inches in height or four feet in width or extend more than
five feet above the ground. Audio speakers used in connection with signs
permitted in this section shall not be audible beyond the property on which the
sign is located or 150 feet, whichever is less.
   (Q)   Within commercial and industrial zoning districts, an area not to
exceed 16 square feet within a freestanding or wall sign shall be allowed for
display of an electronic time and temperature sign subject to the sign
provisions for the zoning district in which the sign is located.
   (R)   Projecting signs may be allowed in commercial districts; provided
that:
      (1)   There is a minimum of eight feet of clearance under the base of the
sign to the ground below;
      (2)   The sign does not project over any vehicular drive aisle or
traveled portion of a public or private street and except in the B-1 Downtown
Business district may not project over a public right of way; and
      (3)   The area of the projecting sign is not more than 50% of the maximum
allowed sign area for the respective zoning district except for the B-
1 Downtown Business district.
   (S)   When a single principal building is devoted to two or more commercial
or industrial principal uses, individual tenant signs shall be allowed subject
to review and approval of the Zoning Administrator based upon the following
requirements.
      (1)   The cumulative area for all individual signs shall not exceed the
maximum provisions for the zoning district in §
154.168 of this chapter.
      (2)   Commercial retail, office or mixed use multiple occupancy buildings
may display a freestanding sign consistent with the applicable zoning district
provisions in §
154.168 of this chapter.
      (3)   Individual tenants of a multiple occupancy building shall not
display separate wall, canopy or marquee signs unless the tenant’s business has
an exclusive exterior entrance and subject to the following requirements.
         (a)   The number of individual wall, canopy or marquee signs shall be
limited to one per tenant space; except that, up to two signs may be displayed
for the tenant of a corner suite or a suite that extends through the building
thus having two exterior walls.
         (b)   Each sign shall be limited to the maximum wall sign size
permitted in the applicable zoning district provisions in §
154.168 of this chapter.
         (c)   The sign shall be located only on the exterior wall of the
tenant space to which the sign permit is issued, but are not required to face a
public street.
         (d)   A comprehensive sign plan is submitted that includes all of the
following information:
            1.   A site plan to scale showing the location of lot lines,
buildings, structures, parking areas, existing and proposed signs and any other
physical features of the area included within the proposed comprehensive sign
plan;
            2.   Elevations to scale of buildings included within the
comprehensive sign plan including the location of existing or proposed wall,
canopy or marquee signs; and
            3.   To scale plans for all existing and proposed signs of any type
included within the comprehensive sign plan indicating area, dimensions,
height, materials, colors and means of illumination (if any).
         (e)   No permit shall be issued for a new or replacement sign for an
individual tenant except upon a determination by the Zoning Administrator that
it is consistent with the approved comprehensive sign plan.
   (T)   Roof signs shall not exceed 35 feet in height as measured from the
ground.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 27, sub. 6)
§ 154.166 AREA MEASUREMENT.
   (A)   The area within the frame of a sign shall be used to calculate the
square footage; except that, the width of a frame exceeding 12 inches shall
constitute sign face, and if the letters or graphics be mounted directly on a
wall or fascia or in a way as to be without a frame the dimensions for
calculating the square footage shall be the area extending six inches beyond
the periphery formed around the letters or graphics in a plane figure bounded
by straight lines connecting the outermost points thereof. Each surface
utilized to display a message or to attract attention shall be measured as a
separate sign and shall be calculated in the overall square footage. Symbols,
flags, pictures, wording, figures or other forms of graphics painted on or
attached to windows, walls, awnings, freestanding structures, suspended by
balloons or kites or on persons, animals or vehicles are considered a sign and
are included in calculating the overall square footage.
   (B)   The sign area for a sign with more than one face shall be computed by
adding together the area of all sign faces visible from any one point. When two
identical sign faces are placed back to back, so that both faces cannot be
viewed from any point at the same time, and when the sign faces are part of the
same sign structure and are not more than 42 inches apart, the sign area shall
be computed by the measurement of one of the faces.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 27, sub. 7)
§ 154.167 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   All off-premises signs greater than two square feet in area such as
billboards, except as allowed by §
154.165(N) of this chapter;
   (B)   Any sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be or is an
imitation of or resembles any official traffic-control device or railroad sign
or signal, or emergency vehicle signs, or which attempts to direct the movement
of traffic or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any
official traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal;
   (C)   Signs painted, attached or in any other manner affixed to trees, or
similar natural surfaces, or attached to public utility poles, bridges, towers
or similar public structures;
   (D)   All signs over 440 square feet in area, except within the P-OS
District (water tower signs);
   (E)   Balloon signs;
   (F)   Flashing signs;
   (G)   Multi-vision signs;
   (H)   Rotating signs;
   (I)   Shimmering signs; and
   (J)   Content classified as “obscene”, as defined by M.S. § 617.241, as it
may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 27, sub. 8)
§ 154.168 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Within all residential districts, the following regulations apply:
      (1)   All signs as outlined in §
154.165(G) of this chapter;
      (2)   Except for the uses specified in division (A)(3) below, one sign
shall be allowed; provided that:
         (a)   The area of the sign shall not exceed 16 square feet;
         (b)   Freestanding signs shall be limited to a maximum height of eight
feet; and
         (c)   The following signs are not permitted: awning; canopy; marquee;
pole; pylon; and internally illuminated signs.
      (3)   Public or private educational, recreational, park or community
facilities, and religious institutions such as churches, chapels, temples and
synagogues shall be allowed the following signs:
         (a)   The maximum area of all signs allowed for such uses shall be
determined on the basis of the following criteria:
 
Site Area                Maximum Area For All Signs
0.0 acres to 5.0 acres   32 square feet
5.1 acres to 10.0 acres  64 square feet
10.1 acres to 15.0 acres 96 square feet
15.1 acres to 25.0 acres 128 square feet
25.0 acres or larger     160 square feet
 
         (b)   One sign shall be allowed for each principal use upon a site
that is less than 25 acres with the total area not to exceed the maximum
allowed per site.
         (c)   Two signs shall be allowed for each principal use upon a site
that is 25 acres or larger with the total area of all signs not to exceed the
maximum allowed per site.
         (d)   Freestanding signs shall be limited to a maximum height of eight
feet.
   (B)   Within the B-1 Downtown Commercial District, the following regulations
apply:
      (1)   All signs as outlined in §
154.164(G) of this chapter;
      (2)   Total area of signs: the total area of all signs displayed on a lot
shall not exceed 10% of the gross area of the effective building facade
fronting on not more than two public streets. Effective building facade
includes an area up to the height of the eave line or top of parapet, not to
exceed 20 feet; and
      (3)   Freestanding sign: one sign is allowed per lot. The area of a
freestanding sign may not exceed 16 square feet each side with a maximum height
of ten feet.
   (C)   Within the B-2 Highway Commercial District, the following regulations
apply:
      (1)   All signs as outlined in §
154.164(G) of this chapter;
      (2)   Total area of signs: the total area of all signs displayed on a lot
shall not exceed 15% of the gross area of the effective building facade
fronting on not more than two public streets. Effective building facade
includes an area up to the height of the eave line or top of parapet, not to
exceed 20 feet;
      (3)   Freestanding sign: one sign is allowed per lot. The area of a
freestanding sign may not exceed 100 square feet each side with a maximum
height of 20 feet. For signs in the B-2 District within 250 feet of the west
side of TH 3, sign height shall be measured from the centerline of the pavement
of TH 3; and
      (4)   Wall, canopy or marquee signs - single occupancy buildings: not
more than 10% of each street facing building facade may be used for wall,
canopy or marquee signage. For the purposes of this subchapter, building facade
includes an area from grade up to the height of the eave line or top of
parapet, not to exceed 20 feet.
   (D)   Within all industrial districts, the following regulations apply:
      (1)   All signs as outlined in §
154.164(G) of this chapter;
      (2)   Total area of signs: the total area of all signs displayed on a lot
shall not exceed 15% of the gross area of the effective building facade
fronting on not more than two public streets. Effective building facade
includes an area up to the height of the eave line or top of parapet, not to
exceed 20 feet;
      (3)   Freestanding sign: one sign is allowed per lot. The area of a
freestanding sign may not exceed 100 square feet each side with a maximum
height of ten feet; and
      (4)   Wall, canopy or marquee sign: for single occupancy buildings, not
more than one wall, canopy or marquee sign shall be permitted on one facade
fronting a public street, except in the case of a corner lot or through lot
where wall signs may be installed on two facades fronting a public street. The
area of individual signs shall not exceed 100 square feet.
   (E)   Within the P-OS Public-Open Space District, the following regulations
apply:
      (1)   All signs as outlined in §
154.164(G) of this chapter;
      (2)   Total area of signs: the area of signs shall not be limited;
      (3)   Freestanding sign: one sign is allowed per lot. The area of a
freestanding sign may not exceed 100 square feet each side with a maximum
height of 20 feet;
      (4)   Wall, canopy or marquee sign: for single occupancy buildings, not
more than one wall, canopy or marquee sign shall be permitted on one facade
fronting a public street, except in the case of a corner lot or through lot
where wall signs may be installed on two facades fronting a public street. The
area of individual signs shall not be limited; and
      (5)   Portable sign: a portable sign shall be allowed subject to the
following provisions.
         (a)   The sign shall not exceed 32 square feet.
         (b)   The sign shall not be illuminated with any flashing device.
         (c)   Not more than one banner, pennant or similar device shall be
displayed upon a property at any one time.
   (F)   Within a planned unit development overlay district, signing
restrictions shall be based upon the individual uses and structures contained
in the complex. Signs shall be in compliance with the restrictions applied in
the most restrictive zoning district in which the use is allowed.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 27, sub. 9; Ord. 2016-05, passed 9-26-2016)
§ 154.169 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Signs at the entrance to an area or subdivision from collector or
arterial street defined by the City’s Comprehensive Plan shall be allowed;
provided that:
      (1)   Not more than one sign shall be allowed at each entrance from a
collector or arterial street;
      (2)   Area:
         (a)   For residential districts, the area of each sign shall not
exceed 32 square feet; and
         (b)   For business, industrial or institutional districts, the area of
each sign shall not exceed 100 square feet.
      (3)   Height:
         (a)   For residential districts, the maximum height of each sign shall
be eight feet;
         (b)   For commercial districts, the maximum height of each sign shall
be 20 feet; and
         (c)   For industrial districts, the maximum height of each sign shall
be ten feet.
      (4)   Signs shall be located on outlots of sufficient size and area to
accommodate the structure. An association or other form of deed restriction and
ownership deemed acceptable by the City Council and involving all the
properties within the designated area shall be required, which shall own and be
responsible for the upkeep, perpetual maintenance, taxes, insurance, utilities
and other costs associated with the sign(s) and the outlot upon which it is
located. The association rules or by-laws, or similar legal document, shall
specify how the aforementioned sign responsibilities will be delegated and paid
for. The legal document shall be subject to the review and approval of the City
Attorney.
      (5)   Outlots for signs shall be considered and planned for at the time
of preliminary plat application and be included in the final plat. The
subdivision development contract between the City and the developer shall
specify the designated use of the outlot, its ownership and the respective
responsibilities regarding the outlot.
      (6)   The outlot area around the sign shall be landscaped in such a
manner to accent and enhance the sign while remaining sensitive to the natural
features of the site. Detailed site and landscape plans shall be included with
each sign permit application and shall be subject to City Council review and
comment.
      (7)   The design and construction of area identification signs shall be
done with the highest quality materials and workmanship to keep maintenance and
upkeep costs to a minimum and to minimize the potential for vandalism. Area
identification signs are to be aesthetically pleasing when designed and
constructed. The sign shall be compatible with nearby structures in the area.
Detailed construction plans and a materials list shall be included with each
sign permit application and shall be subject to City Council review and
approval.
      (8)   The City reserves the right to require the removal, at the owner’s
expense, of any sign when the requirements of this section are not completely
followed and adhered to, or if the sign is not properly maintained or falls
into a state of disrepair. The City shall not have any obligation or liability
to replace any sign when removed by the City.
   (B)   Additional signs shall be allowed upon approval of a final plat for a
subdivision having five or more lots; provided that:
      (1)   One sign shall be allowed per project or subdivision or one sign
for each frontage to a major collector or arterial street, whichever is
greater;
      (2)   The area of the sign shall not exceed 32 square feet;
      (3)   Freestanding signs shall be limited to a maximum height of eight
feet; and
      (4)   The sign shall not be displayed for a period to exceed 24 months
from the date a permit is issued for the sign or until building permits have
been issued for 85% of the lots or dwelling units within the subdivision,
whichever is less restrictive.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 27, sub. 10)
§ 154.170 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Non-conforming signs. Any non-conforming on-premises sign lawfully
existing upon the effective date of this section may be continued at the size
and in the manner existing upon such date, subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   Maintenance and repair. Nothing in this section shall be construed
as relieving the owner or user of a legal non-conforming sign or owner of the
property on which the legal non-conforming sign is located from the provisions
of this section regarding safety, maintenance and repair of signs; provided
that, any repainting, cleaning and other normal maintenance or repair of the
sign or sign structure shall not modify the sign structure or copy in any way
which makes it more non-conforming or the sign shall lose its legal non-
conforming status. Illegal, non-conforming signs shall be removed by the
property owner within ten days of notice from the City.
      (2)   Prohibited alterations. A non-conforming sign may not be:
         (a)   Structurally altered, except to bring it into compliance with
the provisions of this section;
         (b)   Enlarged;
         (c)   Re-established after its removal or discontinuance;
         (d)   Repaired or otherwise restored, unless the damage is to less
than 50% of sign structure value as determined by the Zoning Administrator;
and/or
         (e)   Replaced (applies to structure only and not message).
   (B)   Non-conforming uses. When the principal use of land is legally non-
conforming under this chapter, all existing or proposed signs in conjunction
with that land, unless otherwise provided for by this chapter or the City code,
shall be considered conforming if they are in compliance with the sign
provisions for the zoning district in which the principal use is allowed.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 27, sub. 11)
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS (PLATTING)
§ 154.185 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. In order to safeguard the best interests of the City and to
assist the subdivider in harmonizing his or her interests with those of the
City at large, this subchapter is adopted so that the adherence to same will
bring results beneficial to both parties. It is the purpose of this subchapter
to make certain regulations and requirements for the platting of land pursuant
to the authority contained in state statutes, which regulations the Council
deems necessary for the health, safety and general welfare of the community.
   (B)   Scope. The rules, regulations and standards governing subdivision of
land, as contained herein, shall apply to all land within the corporate limits
of the City and any unincorporated territory in the county located within two
miles of its limits, except where another incorporated municipality lies within
four miles of the City, the jurisdictional limit shall be equidistant between
the two incorporated municipalities.
   (C)   Approvals necessary for acceptance of subdivision plats. Before any
plat shall be recorded or be of any validity, it shall be referred to the
Planning Commission and approved by the Council as having fulfilled the
requirements of this subchapter.
   (D)   Conditions for recording. No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled
to record in the County Recorder’s office or have any validity until the plat
thereof has been prepared, approved and acknowledged in the manner prescribed
by this subchapter.
   (E)   Building permits. No building permits shall be considered for issuance
by the City for the construction of any building, structure or improvement to
the land or to any lot in a subdivision as defined herein, until all
requirements of this subchapter have been complied with fully.
   (F)   Exceptions. When requesting a subdivision that does not meet the
standards for §
154.187 of this chapter, if the following condition exists, the City Clerk-
Treasurer shall bring the request to the attention of the Planning Commission
and Council whereupon, the request shall be reviewed and the Council, following
receipt of a recommendation from the Planning Commission, may exempt the
subdivider from complying with any procedural requirements of this subchapter
that are deemed inappropriate: as in the case of a request to divide a lot
which is a part of a recorded plat where the division is to permit the adding
of a parcel of land to an abutting lot or to create two lots and the newly
created property line will not cause the other remaining portion of the lot or
any structure to be in violation with this subchapter or this chapter.
   (G)   Conflict. Whenever there is a difference between minimum standards or
dimensions specified herein and those contained in other official regulations,
resolutions or City code provisions, the most restrictive standards shall
apply.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 30.01)
§ 154.186 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public or private right-of-way primarily designed to serve as
secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on a street.
   APPLICANT. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided for his or her
representation. Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
   BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bordered by
streets, or by streets and the entire boundary or boundaries of the
subdivision, or a combination of the above with a river or lake.
   BOULEVARD. The portion of the street right-of-way between the curb line and
the property line.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or movable property of any kind, and includes any
structure.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The group of maps, charts and text that make up the
comprehensive long-range plan of the City.
   DESIGN STANDARDS. The specifications to land owners or subdividers for the
preparation of plats, both preliminary and final, indicating among other
things, the optimum, minimum or maximum dimensions of such items as rights-of-
way, blocks, easements and lots.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land and for
the purpose of constructing and maintaining drives, utilities, including, but
not limited to, wetlands, ponding areas, sanitary sewers, water mains, electric
lines, telephone lines, storm sewer or storm drainageways and gas lines.
   FINAL PLAT. A drawing or map of a subdivision, meeting all of the
requirements of the City and in such form as required by the county for the
purpose of recording.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A septic tank, seepage tile sewage
disposal system, or any other approved sewage treatment device.
   LOT. Land occupied or to be occupied by a building and its accessory
buildings, together with such open spaces as are required under the provisions
of the zoning regulations, having not less than the minimum area required by
this chapter for a building site in the district in which the lot is situated
and having its principal frontage on a street.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two streets, the interior
angle of the intersection not exceeding 135 degrees.
   LOT IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any building, structure, place, work of art or other object, or
improvement of the land on which they are situated constituting a physical
betterment of real property, or any part of the betterment.
      (2)   Certain LOT IMPROVEMENTS shall be properly bonded as provided in
these regulations.
   OUTLOT. A lot remnant or parcel of land left over after platting, which is
intended as open space or other use, for which no development is intended and
for which no building permit shall be issued.
   OWNER. Includes the plural as well as the singular, and where appropriate
shall include a natural person, partnership, firm, association, public or
quasi-public corporation, private corporation or a combination of them.
   PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS. Public land and open spaces in the City dedicated or
reserved for recreation purposes.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public right-of-way or private easement across a block or
within a block to provide access for pedestrians and which may be used for the
installation of utility lines.
   PERCENTAGE OF GRADE. On street centerline, the distance vertically from the
horizontal in feet and tenths of a foot for each 100 feet of horizontal
distance.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A tentative drawing or map of a proposed subdivision
meeting the requirements herein enumerated.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts made between private parties as to the
manner in which land may be used, with the view to protecting and preserving
the physical and economic integrity of any given area.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrian way, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement or other
facility for which the City may ultimately assume the responsibility for
maintenance and operation, or which may affect an improvement for which local
government responsibility is established.
   SETBACK. The distance between a building and the property line nearest
thereto.
   STREET. A public right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrians or
vehicles or both, to abutting properties, whether designated as a street,
highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard.
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between lines of lots delineating the
street’s right-of-way.
   STREETS, CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only one outlet and having an
appropriate terminus for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
   STREETS, LOCAL ARTERIAL STREETS. Those streets connecting important
locations inside communities and typically serving local trips. LOCAL ARTERIALS
generally connect to regional arterials and regional collectors. They serve as
mobility corridors and as primary roads for accessibility. In fully developed
urban areas, they tend to carry high volumes of traffic, and provide a high
degree of access to adjacent properties.
   STREETS, LOCAL COLLECTOR STREET. Those streets whose primary function is to
provide access to adjacent land by serving as a connection between the local
street network and arterial roadways or regional collectors. They also connect
developed areas within communities with other developed areas within
communities Local collector streets primarily provide principal access to
residential neighborhoods, including, to a lesser degree, direct land access.
   STREETS, LOCAL STREET. Those streets which are used primarily for access to
abutting properties and for traffic movement. This classification would be
applied to most City streets.
   STREETS, MARGINAL ACCESS STREET (FRONTAGE ROAD). Those local streets which
are parallel and adjacent to thoroughfares and highways; and which provide
access to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
   STREETS, PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL STREETS. Those streets carrying highest volumes
of traffic and highest level of service at the greatest speed for the longest
uninterrupted distance. Serving as links between larger cities and connecting
major business concentrations.
   STREETS, REGIONAL ARTERIAL STREETS. Those streets connecting important
locations inside and outside different regions. Rice, Dakota and Goodhue County
roads that connect communities, and access principal arterials, should be
considered REGIONAL ARTERIALS. REGIONAL ARTERIALS emphasize mobility and access
needs to be carefully managed to avoid capacity and safety problems. There is
typically more access to regional arterials than to principal arterial.
   STREETS, REGIONAL COLLECTOR STREET. Those streets which provide a balance of
serving both mobility and access needs. They consist of county roads that
provide connectivity between the regional and local arterial system, and
collect distribute traffic from developed areas. In general, regional
collectors emphasize mobility over access.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-partners,
corporation, trust or other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest
in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to
subdivide the same under this subchapter.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of land resulting in a parcel of land less than
five acres in area or less than 300 feet in width, for the purpose of transfer
of ownership or building development or, if a new street is involved, any
division of land. The term includes resubdivision and, when appropriate to the
context, shall relate to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
   SUBDIVISION, ADMINISTRATIVE. A division, combination or lot line adjustment
where the intent is to permit the adding of a parcel of land to an abutting
lot, adjust a lot line or divide an existing parcel into two lots.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 30.02)
§ 154.187 ADMINISTRATIVE SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Qualification. The following circumstances may be considered an
administrative subdivision:
      (1)   In the case of a request to divide a portion of a lot where the
division is to permit the adding of a parcel of land to an abutting lot so that
no additional lots are created and both resulting lots conform to minimum
requirements of this chapter;
      (2)   In the case of a request to combine two existing platted lots;
      (3)   A division that allows for the division of one existing platted lot
into two lots and both new lots conform to the minimum requirements of this
chapter;
      (4)   The property to be divided shall not be part of a planned unit
development; and
      (5)   The parcel of land shall not have been part of an administrative
subdivision within the last five years.
   (B)   Application. Whenever any subdivision of land is proposed, before any
contract is made for the sale of any part of the subdivision, and before any
permit for the erection of a structure on the proposed subdivision shall be
granted, the subdividing owner or his or her authorized agent, shall file an
application and secure approval of an administrative subdivision. The
administrative subdivision application shall be considered to be officially
filed when the Zoning Administrator or designee has received the application
and has determined that the application is complete.
   (C)   Submittal requirements. Unless otherwise waived by the Zoning
Administrator, the submittal requirements are the same as for a preliminary
plat as found in §
154.190 of this chapter.
   (D)   Procedure.
      (1)   A development application form with required fees shall be
submitted to the City.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall request input by the City’s
planning, engineering and legal staff, as appropriate, and shall forward copies
of the application to agencies and utility companies responsible for review of
the application.
      (3)   Administrative subdivision of land abutting upon any existing or
proposed trunk highway, county road or highway or county state-aid highway
shall be subject to review of the state’s Department of Transportation and/or
the county’s Highway Department. Written notice and a copy of the proposed
administrative subdivision shall be filed with the state’s Department of
Transportation and/or the county’s Highway Department for review and comment.
Final action on an administrative subdivision shall not be taken until the
minimum 30-day review period has elapsed or until all referenced parties have
signed off, whichever first occurs.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator shall have authority to request supportive
information pertinent to the administrative subdivision. Failure to provide the
necessary supportive information may be grounds for denial of the request.
      (5)   The Zoning Administrator shall reach a decision on the requested
administrative subdivision within 60 days of complete application, unless the
applicant agrees to an extension of the review period.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator may approve the administrative
subdivision with conditions that shall be met to ensure the administrative
subdivision is compliant with the regulations of the subdivision and zoning
ordinances, as may be amended, and other applicable requirements.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall prepare findings and deny a
subdivision if the administrative subdivision is found to be premature as
defined by the criteria of §
154.189 of this chapter or fails to comply with regulations of the City’s
subdivision and zoning ordinances, as may be amended, or other applicable
requirements.
         (c)   The applicant may appeal an administrative subdivision denial
following the appeal procedure outlined in §
154.024 of this chapter.
         (d)   Prior to certification by the City of the approval of the
administrative subdivision, the applicant shall supply the deed(s) granting to
the City any easements as required by the Zoning Administrator.
   (E)   Recording.
      (1)   If the administrative subdivision is approved by the Zoning
Administrator, the applicant shall record the deed, and the accompanying
survey, in the office of the County Recorder within 60 days after the date of
approval; otherwise, the approval of the administrative subdivision shall be
considered void.
      (2)   When the land for which the administrative subdivision abuts a
state highway, county road or county highway, a certificate or other evidence
showing submission and approval of the administrative subdivision to the
state’s Department of Transportation and/or the county’s Highway Department
shall be filed with the County Recorder of Deeds, with the administrative
subdivision.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 30.09)
§ 154.188 PROCEDURES FOR FILING AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Sketch plan. In order to ensure that all applicants are informed of
the procedural requirements and minimum standards of this subchapter and the
requirements or limitations imposed by other City code provisions or plans,
prior to the development of a preliminary plat, all applicants shall present a
sketch plan to the City Clerk-Treasurer prior to filing a preliminary plat. The
submittal shall be at least 15 days in advance of the next regular meeting of
the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission will be informed of the
submittal and shall be afforded the opportunity to comment to the sketch plan
at their next regular meeting following the submittal.
   (B)   Preliminary plat.
      (1)   Filing. Twenty copies of the preliminary plat, to include computer
media (.pdf files), and list of property owners located within 350 feet of the
subject property obtained from and certified by Rice or Dakota County, shall be
submitted to the City Clerk-Treasurer. The submittal shall be at least 15 days
in advance of the next regular meeting of the Planning Commission. The required
filing fee as established by Council resolution shall be paid and any necessary
applications for variances from the provisions of this subchapter shall be
submitted with the required fee. The proposed plat shall be placed on the
agenda of the first possible Planning Commission meeting occurring after 15
days from the date of submission. The plan shall be considered as being
officially submitted when all the information requirements are complied with.
      (2)   Hearing. The Planning Commission upon receipt of the application
shall instruct the City Clerk-Treasurer to set a public hearing for public
review of the preliminary plat. The hearing shall be established once adequate
time has been allowed for staff and advisory body review of the plat. The
Planning Commission shall conduct the hearing, and report its findings and make
recommendations to the Council. Notice of the hearing shall consist of a legal
property description, description of request and map detailing property
location, and be published in the official newspaper at least ten days prior to
the hearing and written notification of the hearing shall be mailed at least
ten days prior to all owners of land within 350 feet of the boundary of the
property in question. Failure of a property owner to receive the notice shall
not invalidate any such hearing proceeding as set forth in this subchapter.
      (3)   Technical assistance reports. After the public hearing has been
set, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall instruct the appropriate staff persons to
prepare technical reports where appropriate, and provide general assistance in
preparing a recommendation on the action to the Council.
      (4)   Review by other commissions or jurisdictions. The City Clerk-
Treasurer shall refer copies of the preliminary plat to the park board, county,
state or other public jurisdictions for their review and comment, where
appropriate and when required.
      (5)   Planning Commission action. The Planning Commission shall make a
recommendation to the Council immediately following the close of the public
hearing. If the Planning Commission has not acted upon the preliminary plat
within 60 days from the opening of the public hearing, the Council may act on
the preliminary plat without the Planning Commission’s recommendation.
      (6)   Council action.
         (a)   If all requirements of this subchapter and as additionally
imposed by the Planning Commission are complied with, the Council shall act
upon the preliminary plat and may impose conditions and restrictions which are
deemed necessary within 60 days of the date of the close of the Planning
Commission’s public hearing.
         (b)   If the preliminary plat is not approved by the Council, the
reasons for the action shall be recorded in the proceedings of the Council and
transmitted to the applicant. If the preliminary plat is approved, the approval
shall not constitute final acceptance of the layout. Subsequent approval will
be required of the engineering proposals and other features and requirements as
specified by this subchapter to be indicated on the final plat. The Council may
require the revisions in the preliminary plat and final plat as it deems
necessary for the health, safety, general welfare and convenience of the City.
         (c)   If the preliminary plat is approved by the Council, the
subdivider must submit the final plat within 100 days after the approval or
approval of the preliminary plat shall be considered void, unless a request for
time extension is submitted in writing and approved by the Council.
   (C)   Final plat.
      (1)   Filing. After the preliminary plat has been approved, final plat
shall be submitted for review as set forth in the divisions which follow.
      (2)   Submission of final plat. Twenty copies of the final plat and
supporting documentation, to include computer media (.pdf files), shall be
submitted to the City Clerk-Treasurer for distribution to the City Council and
appropriate City staff, 30 days prior to a Council meeting at which
consideration is requested. During the 30 days, the City staff shall examine
the final plat and prepare a recommendation.
      (3)   Approval of the Council. Upon receipt of a complete application,
the final plat shall be submitted to the Council for consideration. If accepted
and deemed to be consistent with the preliminary plat approval and the
requirements of the City Code, the final plat shall be approved by resolution,
which resolution shall provide for the acceptance of all agreements for basic
improvements, public dedication and other requirements as indicated by the
Council. If disapproved, the grounds for any refusal to approve a plat shall be
set forth in the proceedings of the Council and reported to the person or
persons applying for the approval. The Council’s decision shall be made within
60 days after receipt of a complete application.
      (4)   Special assessments. When any existing special assessments which
have been levied against the property described are to be divided and allocated
to the respective lots in the proposed plat, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall
estimate the clerical cost of preparing a revised assessment roll, filing the
same with the County Auditor and making the division and allocation and, upon
approval by the Council of the cost, the same shall be paid to the City Clerk-
Treasurer before the final plat approval.
      (5)   Street addresses. With submission of the final plat, ten copies of
the plat map showing all addresses, correctly labeled in conformance with all
applicable county and City code provisions and policies, shall be supplied to
the City Clerk-Treasurer for subsequent distribution to the utility companies
and local school districts.
      (6)   Recording final plat. If the final plat is approved by the Council,
the subdivider shall record it with the County Recorder within 100 days after
the approval or approval of the final plat shall be considered void, unless a
request for time extension is submitted in writing and approved by the Council.
The subdivider shall, immediately upon recording, furnish the City Clerk-
Treasurer with a print and reproducible tracing (hard copy and computer media)
of the final plat showing evidence of the recording. No building permits shall
be let for construction of any structure on any lot in the plat until the City
has received evidence of the plat being recorded by the county.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 30.10; Ord. 2021-06, passed 5-10-2021)
§ 154.189 PREMATURE SUBDIVISIONS.
   Any preliminary plat of a proposed subdivision deemed premature for
development shall be denied by the Council.
   (A)   Condition establishing premature subdivisions. A subdivision may be
deemed premature should any of the conditions set forth in the provisions which
follow exist:
      (1)   Lack of adequate drainage. A condition of inadequate drainage may
be deemed to exist if:
         (a)   Surface or subsurface water retention and runoff is such that it
constitutes a danger to the structural security of the proposed structures;
         (b)   The proposed subdivision will cause pollution of water sources
or damage from erosion and siltation on downhill or downstream land;
         (c)   The proposed site grading and development will cause harmful and
irreparable damage from erosion and siltation on downhill or downstream land;
and
         (d)   Factors to be considered in making these determinations may
include: average rainfall for the area; the relation of the land to
floodplains; the nature of soils and subsoils and their ability to adequately
support surface water runoff and waste disposal systems; the slope of the land
and its effect on effluents; and the presence of streams as related to effluent
disposal.
      (2)   Lack of adequate water supply. A proposed subdivision may be deemed
to lack an adequate water supply if the proposed subdivision does not have
adequate sources of water to serve the proposed subdivision if developed to its
maximum permissible density without causing an unreasonable depreciation of
existing water supplies for surrounding areas;
      (3)   Lack of adequate roads or highways to serve the subdivision. A
proposed subdivision may be deemed to lack adequate roads or highways to serve
the subdivision when:
         (a)   Roads which serve the proposed subdivision are of such a width,
grade, stability, vertical and horizontal alignment, site distance and surface
condition that an increase in traffic volume generated by the proposed
subdivision would create a hazard to public safety and general welfare, or
seriously aggravate an already hazardous condition, and when, with due regard
to the advice of the county, and/or the state’s Department of Transportation,
the roads are inadequate for the intended use; and
         (b)   The traffic volume generated by the proposed subdivision would
create unreasonable highway congestion or unsafe conditions on roadways
existing at the time of the application or proposed for completion within the
next two years.
      (4)   Lack of adequate waste disposal systems. A proposed subdivision may
be deemed to lack adequate waste disposal systems if in subdivisions for which
sewer lines are proposed, there is inadequate sewer capacity in the present
system to support the subdivision if developed to its maximum permissible
density after reasonable sewer capacity is reserved for schools, planned public
facilities and commercial and industrial development projected for the next
five years; or if in subdivisions where sewer lines are neither available nor
proposed, there is inadequate on-site sewer capacity potential to support the
subdivision if developed to its maximum permissible density;
      (5)   Inconsistency with Comprehensive Plan. The proposed subdivision is
inconsistent with the purposes, objectives and recommendations of the duly
adopted Comprehensive Plan, as may be amended;
      (6)   Providing public improvements. Public improvements, such as
recreational facilities, or other public facilities, reasonably necessitated by
the subdivision, which must be provided at public expense, cannot be reasonably
provided for within the next two years; and
      (7)   MEQC policies. The proposed subdivision is inconsistent with the
policies of MEQC 30, as may be amended, and could adversely impact critical
environmental areas or potentially disrupt or destroy historic areas which are
designated or officially recognized by the Council in violation of federal and
state historical preservation laws.
   (B)   Burden of establishing. The burden shall be upon the applicant to show
that the proposed subdivision is not premature.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 30.11)
§ 154.190 PLAT AND DATA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Sketch plan. Sketch plans shall contain, at a minimum, the following
information:
      (1)   Plat boundary;
      (2)   North arrow;
      (3)   Scale;
      (4)   Street layout on and adjacent to plat;
      (5)   Designation of land use and current or proposed zoning;
      (6)   Significant topographical or physical features;
      (7)   General lot locations and layout; and
      (8)   Preliminary evaluation, in writing, by the applicant that the
subdivision is not classified as premature based upon criteria established in §
154.189 of this chapter.
   (B)   Preliminary plat. The subdivider shall prepare and submit a
preliminary plat, together with any necessary supplementary information. The
preliminary plat shall contain the information set forth in the subdivisions
which follows.
      (1)   General requirements.
         (a)   Proposed name of subdivision; names shall not duplicate or too
closely resemble names of existing subdivisions;
         (b)   Location of boundary lines in relation to a known section,
quarter section or quarter-quarter section lines comprising a legal description
of the property;
         (c)   Names and addresses of all persons having property interest, the
developer, designer and surveyor together with his or her registration number;
         (d)   Graphic scale or plat, not less than one inch to 100 feet; and
         (e)   Date and north arrow.
      (2)   Existing conditions.
         (a)   Boundary line and total acreage of proposed plat, clearly
indicated;
         (b)   Existing zoning classifications for land within and abutting the
subdivision;
         (c)   Location, widths and names of all existing or previously platted
streets or other public ways, showing type, width and condition of
improvements, if any, railroad and utility rights-of-way, parks and other
public open spaces, permanent buildings and structures, easements and section
and corporate lines within the tract and to a distance of 350 feet beyond the
tract;
         (d)   Location and size of existing sewers, water mains, culverts or
other underground facilities within the tract and to a distance of 100 feet
beyond the tract. Such data as grades, invert elevations and locations of catch
basins, manholes and hydrants shall also be shown;
         (e)   Boundary lines of adjoining un-subdivided or subdivided land,
within 350 feet, identified by name and ownership, including all contiguous
land owned or controlled by the subdivider;
         (f)   Topographic data, including contours at vertical intervals of
not more than two feet. Watercourses, wetlands, rock outcrops, power
transmission poles and lines and other significant features shall also be
known; and
         (g)   In plats where public water and sewer are not available,
development shall be subject to procedures and requirements as established by
City code provisions, as may be amended. As authorized by the Council, the
subdivider shall file a report prepared by a registered civil engineer on the
feasibility of individual on-site sewer and water systems on each lot, and
shall include soils boring analysis and percolation tests to verify
conclusions. The report and finding shall be subject to the review and approval
of the City Engineer.
      (3)   Proposed design features.
         (a)   Layout of proposed streets showing the right-of-way widths,
centerline gradients, typical cross-sections and proposed names of streets in
conformance with City and county street identification policies. The name of
any street heretofore used in the City or its environs shall not be used unless
the proposed street is a logical extension of an already named street, in which
event the same name shall be used. Street layout and right-of-way requirements
shall be in accordance with the City’s transportation plan and the requirements
of this section;
         (b)   Locations and widths of proposed alleys and pedestrian ways;
         (c)   Locations and size of proposed sewer lines and water mains;
         (d)   Location, dimension and purpose of all easements;
         (e)   Layout, numbers, lot areas and preliminary dimensions of lots
and blocks;
         (f)   Minimum front and side street building setback lines;
         (g)   When lots are located on a curve, the width of the lot at the
building setback line;
         (h)   Areas, other than streets, alleys, pedestrian ways and utility
easements, intended to be dedicated or reserved for public use, including the
size of the area or areas in acres;
         (i)   Water mains shall be provided to serve the subdivision by
extension of an existing community system wherever feasible. Service
connections shall be stubbed into the property line and all necessary fire
hydrants shall also be provided. Extensions of the public water supply system
shall be designed so as to provide public water in accordance with the
standards of the City. In areas where public water supply is not reasonably
available, as determined by the City Council, individual wells shall be
provided on each lot, properly placed in relationship to the individual sewage
disposal facilities on the same and adjoining lots. With the approval of the
City Council, a communal well may be installed as an alternative to individual
wells. Well plans must comply with the state’s Well Code, as may be amended,
and be submitted and subject to the approval of the state’s Department of
Health, MnDNR, and the City Engineer;
         (j)   Sanitary sewer mains and service connections shall be installed
in accordance with the standards of the City;
         (k)   All on-site septic systems shall be installed in accordance with
all applicable State Pollution Control Agency regulations and City code
provisions. On-site septic systems will not be permitted where the City Council
determines that public sewer service is reasonably available;
         (l)   To be in accordance with standards adopted by the City, and
implemented in the development;
         (m)   Utilizing City’s standard poles and fixtures, to be installed as
part of the development, at the indicated spacing; and
         (n)   To be in accordance with City’s adopted walk and trail plan, and
implemented in the development. The sidewalk and trail plan shall be subject to
review by the City’s Parks Commission.
      (4)   Supplementary information.
         (a)   Any or all of the supplementary information set forth herein
shall be submitted when deemed necessary by the City staff, consultants,
advisory bodies and/or Council;
         (b)   Proposed protective covenants;
         (c)   An accurate soil survey of the subdivision;
         (d)   A survey identifying tree coverage in the proposed subdivision
in terms of type, weakness, maturity, potential hazard, infestation, vigor,
density and spacing;
         (e)   Statement of the proposed use of lots stating type of buildings
with number of proposed dwelling units or type of business or industry, so as
to reveal the affect of the development on traffic, fire hazards and congestion
of population;
         (f)   If any zoning changes are contemplated, the proposed zoning plan
for the areas, including dimensions, shall be shown. The proposed zoning plan
shall be for information only and shall not vest any rights in the applicant;
         (g)   Provision for surface water disposal, ponding, drainage and
flood control;
         (h)   Where the subdivider owns property adjacent to that which is
being proposed for the subdivision, it shall be required that the subdivider
submit a sketch plan of the remainder of the property so as to show the
possible relationships between the proposed subdivision and the future
subdivision. In any event, all subdivisions shall be required to relate well
with existing or potential adjacent subdivisions, and it shall be the
applicant’s responsibility to demonstrate the potential relationship;
         (i)   Where structures are to be placed on large or excessively deep
lots which are subject to potential replat, the preliminary plat shall indicate
a logical way in which the lots could possibly be resubdivided in the future;
         (j)   A plan for soil erosion and sediment control both during
construction and after development has been completed. The plan shall include
gradients of waterways, design of veloCity and erosion control measures, design
of sediment control measures and landscaping of the erosion and sediment
control system;
         (k)   A vegetation preservation and protection plan that shows those
trees proposed to be removed, those to remain, the types and locations of trees
and other vegetation that are to be planted;
         (l)   When the City has agreed to install improvements in a
development, the developer shall furnish the City a financial statement
satisfactory to the City. When the City has not undertaken to install
improvements, the City may, at the City’s option, require the developer to
furnish a financial statement satisfactory to the City; and
         (m)   Other information as may be required.
   (C)   Final plat. The owner or subdivider shall submit a final plat together
with any necessary supplementary information. The final plat, prepared for
recording purposes, shall be prepared in accordance with provisions of state
statutes and county regulations, and such final plat shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   Names of the subdivision, which shall not duplicate or too closely
approximate the name of any existing subdivision;
      (2)   Location by section, township, range, county and state, and
including descriptive boundaries of the subdivision, based on an accurate
traverse, giving angular and linear dimensions which must mathematically close.
The allowable error closure on any portion of a final plat shall be one foot in
7,500;
      (3)   The location of monuments shall be shown and described on the final
plat. Locations of such monuments shall be shown in reference to existing
official monuments on the nearest established street lines, including true
angles and distances to the reference points or monuments;
      (4)   Location of lots, streets, public highways, alleys, parks and other
features, with accurate dimensions in feet and decimals of feet, with the
length of radii and/or arcs of all curves, and with all other information
necessary to reproduce the plat on the ground shall be shown. Dimensions shall
be shown from all angle points of curve to lot lines;
      (5)   Lots shall be numbered clearly. Blocks are to be numbered, with
numbers shown clearly in the center of the block;
      (6)   The exact locations, widths and names of all streets to be
dedicated;
      (7)   Location and width of all easements to be dedicated;
      (8)   Name and address of surveyor making the plat;
      (9)   Scale of plat (the scale to be shown graphically on a bar scale),
date and north arrow. Final plats shall be illustrated at a scale of one inch
equals 50 feet and on sheets of approximately 22 by 34 inches in size;
      (10)   Statement dedicating all easements as follows: easements for
installation and maintenance of utilities and drainage facilities are reserved
over, under, along and through the strips marked “utility easements”; and
      (11)   Statement dedicating all streets, alleys and other public areas
not previously dedicated as follows: streets, alleys and other public areas
shown on this plat and not heretofore dedicated to public use are hereby so
dedicated.
   (D)   Address map. The address map shall be prepared in accordance with City
and county policy and shall include all addresses of lots as platted.
   (E)   Certification required.
      (1)   Certification by registered surveyor in the form required by M.S. §
505.03, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (2)   Execution by all owners of any interest in the land and any holders
of a mortgage thereon, of the certificates required by M.S. § 505.03, as it may
be amended from time to time, and the certificate shall include a dedication of
the utility easements and other public areas in such form as approved by the
Council; and
      (3)   Space for certificates of approval and review to be filled in by
the signatures of the Chairperson and Secretary of the Planning Commission and
the Mayor and City Clerk-Treasurer.
         (a)   The form of certificate by the Planning Commission is as
follows:
 
Reviewed and forwarded by the Planning Commission of the City of Dundas
 
This                          day of                                          , 20              .
 
Signed:                                                                                            .
Chairperson
 
Attest:                                                                                             .
Secretary
 
         (b)   The form of certificate by the City Council is as follows:
 
Approved by the City of Dundas, Minnesota
 
This                          day of                                          , 20              .
 
Signed:                                                                                            .
Mayor
 
Attest:                                                                                             .
City Clerk
 
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 30.12)
§ 154.191 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Blocks.
      (1)   Block length. In general, intersecting streets, determining block
lengths, shall be provided at such intervals so as to serve cross-traffic
adequately and to meet existing streets. Where no existing plats control, the
blocks in residential subdivisions should not exceed 1,200 feet nor be less
than 400 feet in length, except where topography or other conditions justify a
departure from this maximum. In blocks longer than 800 feet, pedestrian ways
and/or easements through the block may be required near the center of the
block.
      (2)   Block width. The width of the block shall normally be sufficient to
allow two tiers of lots of appropriate depth. Blocks intended for business or
industrial use shall be of a width as to be considered most suitable for their
respective use, including adequate space for off-street parking and deliveries.
   (B)   Lots.
      (1)   Area. The minimum lot area, width and depth shall not be less than
that established by the zoning regulations in effect at the time of adoption of
the final plat.
      (2)   Corner lots. Corner lots for residential use shall have additional
width to permit appropriate building setback from both streets as required in
this chapter.
      (3)   Side lot lines. Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right
angles to street lines or radial to curved street lines.
      (4)   Frontage. Every lot must have the minimum frontage on a City
approved street other than an alley, as required in this chapter.
      (5)   Setback lines. Setback or building lines shall be shown on all lots
intended for residential use and shall not be less than the setback required by
this chapter, as may be amended.
      (6)   Watercourses. Lots abutting a watercourse, wetland, ponding area or
stream shall have additional depth and width, as required under the provisions
of this chapter.
      (7)   Features. In the subdividing of any land, due regard shall be shown
for all natural features, such as tree growth, watercourses, wetlands, historic
locations or similar conditions which if preserved will add attractiveness and
stability to the proposed development.
      (8)   Lot remnants. All remnants of lots below minimum size left over
after subdividing of a larger tract must be added to adjacent lots, rather than
allowed to remain as unusable parcels.
      (9)   Political boundaries. No singular plat shall extend over a
political boundary or school district line without document notification to the
affected units of government.
      (10)   Frontage on two streets. Double-frontage, or lots with frontage on
two parallel streets, shall not be permitted, except where lots back on
arterial streets or highways, or where topographic or other conditions render
subdividing otherwise unreasonable. The double-frontage lots shall have an
additional depth of at least 20 feet in order to allow space for screen
planting along the back lot line.
      (11)   Turn-around access. Where proposed residential lots abut a
collector or arterial street, they should be platted in a manner as to
encourage turn-around access and egress on each lot.
   (C)   Streets and alleys.
      (1)   Streets, continuous. Except for cul-de-sacs, streets shall connect
with streets already dedicated in adjoining or adjacent subdivisions, or
provide for future connections to adjoining un-subdivided tracts, or shall be a
reasonable projection of streets in the nearest subdivided tracts. The
arrangement of streets shall generally adhere to the City’s transportation
plan, and implement a grid system as directed by the City. The arrangement of
arterial, collector and local streets shall be considered in their relation to
the reasonable circulation of traffic, to topographic conditions, to run-off of
storm water, to public convenience and safety and in their appropriate
relationship to the proposed uses of the area to be served.
      (2)   Local streets and dead-end streets. Local streets should be so
planned as to discourage their use by non-local traffic. Dead-end streets are
prohibited, but cul-de-sacs shall be permitted where topography, design
constraints or other physical conditions justify their use. Cul-de-sacs shall
generally not be longer than 600 feet, including a terminal turn-around, which
shall be provided at the closed end, with a right-of-way radius of not less
than 60 feet.
      (3)   Street plans for future subdivisions. Where the plat to be
submitted includes only part of the tract owned or intended for development by
the subdivider, a tentative plan of the proposed future street system for the
unsubdivided portion shall be prepared and submitted by the subdivider. Street
plans shall be in conformance with the City’s transportation plan, and shall
provide for connectivity to adjoining neighborhoods as determined by the City
Engineer.
      (4)   Temporary cul-de-sac. In those instances where a street is
terminated pending future extension in conjunction with future subdivision, a
temporary turn-around facility shall be provided at the closed end, in
conformance with cul-de-sac requirements.
      (5)   Provisions for re-subdivision of large lots and parcels. When a
tract is subdivided into larger than normal building lots or parcels, such lots
or parcels shall be so arranged as to permit the logical location and openings
for future streets and appropriate re-subdivision, with provision for adequate
utility connections for the re-subdivision.
      (6)   Street intersections. Under normal conditions, streets shall be
laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at right angles, except where
topography or other conditions justify variations. Under normal conditions, the
minimum angle of intersection of streets shall be 80 degrees. Street
intersection jogs with an offset of less than 150 feet shall be avoided.
      (7)   Subdivisions abutting major rights-of-way. Wherever the proposed
subdivision contains, or is adjacent to the right-of-way of a U.S. or state
highway, or a county road or thoroughfare, provision should be made for a
marginal access street approximately parallel and adjacent to the boundary of
the right-of-way; provided that, due consideration is given to proper
circulation design, or for a street at a distance suitable for the appropriate
use of land between the street and the right-of-way. The distance shall be
determined with due consideration of the minimum distance required for approach
connections to future grade separations or for lot depths. Design
considerations should include avoidance of rear yards abutting the subject
right-of-way.
      (8)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be required on one side of any platted
local street, both sides of collector or arterial streets, and both sides of
cul-de-sac streets including the turn-around. In those cases where the Council
deems appropriate and necessary, additional sidewalks of not less than five
feet in width shall be provided. In all cases where sidewalks are provided,
provision shall be made for handicapped access.
      (9)   Service access, alleys. Service access shall be provided in
commercial and industrial districts for off-street loading, unloading and
parking consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed. Alleys, where
provided, shall not be less than 30 feet wide. Dead-end alleys shall be avoided
wherever possible, but if unavoidable, the dead-end alleys may be approved if
adequate turnaround facilities are provided at the closed end.
      (10)   Half streets. Dedication of half streets shall not be considered
for approval, except where it is essential to the reasonable development of the
subdivision and in conformity with the other requirements of these regulations,
or where it is found that it will be practical to require the dedication of the
other half when the adjoining property is subdivided.
      (11)   Street grades. Except when upon the recommendation of the City
Engineer, where the topography warrants a greater maximum, the grades of all
local streets and alleys in any subdivision shall not be greater than 10%. The
maximum grade of collector streets, thoroughfares and arterials shall not be
greater than 6%. In addition, there shall be a minimum grade on all streets,
arterials and thoroughfares of not less than 0.5%.
      (12)   Curb radius. The minimum curb radii for thoroughfares, collector
streets, local streets and alleys shall be as follows:
         (a)   Arterial and collector streets: 50 feet;
         (b)   Local streets: 15 feet; and
         (c)   Alleys: five feet.
      (13)   Reverse curves. Minimum design standards for collector and
arterial streets shall comply to state aid standards.
      (14)   Reserve strips. Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall
be prohibited, except under conditions accepted by the Council.
      (15)   Street right-of-way width. Street right-of-way widths shall
generally conform with the following standards:
Functional Classification Jurisdictional Typ. Posted Speed (mph) R.O.W. Typ.
                          Classification
Functional         Jurisdictional Typ. Posted Speed (mph) R.O.W. Typ.
Classification     Classification
Regional arterial  County         40 - 45 mph urban       80 - 150 feet
Regional arterial  County         45 - 55 mph rural       120 - 150 feet for 4-
                                                          lane
Local arterial     City           30 - 40 mph urban       80 - 120 feet
Local arterial     City           40 - 50 mph urbanizing  80 - 120 feet
Regional collector County         30 - 40 mph urban       80 - 120 feet
Regional collector County         40 - 45 mph urbanizing  80 - 120 feet
Regional collector County         45 - 55 mph rural       80 - 120 feet
Local collector    City           30 - 40 mph urban       66 - 100 feet
Local collector    City           40 - 50 mph urbanizing  66 - 100 feet
Local street       City           30 mph                  50 - 66 feet (varies)
 
      (16)   Access management. To provide access to land development while
preserving safety, capacity and operation of the transportation system.
Functional Classification Area Type Intersection Spacing     Private Access
                                    Full Mvmt. Condit. Mvmt.
Functional      Area Type        Intersection Spacing          Private Access
Classification                   Full Mvmt. Condit. Mvmt.
Local arterial  Urban Core       300’ - 660’ dep. on block Subj. to Condit.
                                 length
Local arterial  Urban/Urbanizing 1/4 mile   1/8 mile           By Exception
Local arterial  Rural            1/2 mile   1/4 mile           Subj. to Condit.
Local collector Urban Core       300’ - 660’ dep. on block Subj. to Condit.
                                 length
Local collector Urban/Urbanizing 1/8 mile   Not Applic.        Subj. to Condit.
Local collector Rural            1/2 mile   1/4 mile           Subj. to Condit.
Local street    City             Not Applic.                   Not Applic.
Regional        Urban Core       300’ - 660’ dep. on block Subj. to Condit.
arterial                         length
Regional        Urban/Urbanizing 1/4 mile   1/8 mile           By Exception
arterial
Regional        Rural            1/2 mile   1/4 mile           Subj. to Condit.
arterial
Regional        Urban Core       300’ - 660’ dep. on block Subj. to Condit.
collector                        length
Regional        Urban/Urbanizing 1/8 mile   Not Applic.        Subj. to Condit.
collector
Regional        Rural            1/2 mile   1/4 mile           Subj. to Condit.
collector
 
   (D)   Easements.
      (1)   Width and location. An easement for utilities at least ten feet
wide shall be provided along all lot lines. If necessary for the extension of
main water or sewer lines or similar utilities, easements of greater width may
be required along lot lines or across lots.
      (2)   Continuous utility easement locations. Utility easements shall
connect with easements established in adjoining properties. These easements,
when approved, shall not thereafter be changed without the approval of the
Council after a public hearing.
      (3)   Guy wires. Additional easements for pole guys should be provided,
where appropriate, at the outside of turns. Where possible, lot lines shall be
arranged to bisect the exterior angle so that pole guys will fall along side
lot lines.
   (E)   Erosion and sediment control.
      (1)   The development shall conform to the natural limitations presented
by topography and soil so as to create the least potential for soil erosion.
      (2)   Erosion and siltation control measures shall be coordinated with
the different stages of construction. Appropriate control measures shall be
installed prior to development when necessary to control erosion.
      (3)   Land shall be developed in increments of workable size such that
adequate erosion and siltation controls can be provided as construction
progresses. The smallest practical area of land shall be exposed at any one
period of time.
      (4)   When soil is exposed, the exposure shall be for the shortest
feasible period of time.
      (5)   Where the topsoil is removed, sufficient arable soil shall be set
aside for re-spreading over the developed area. Top soil shall be restored or
provided to a minimum depth of six inches and shall be of a quality at least
equal to the soil quality prior to development.
      (6)   Natural vegetation shall be protected wherever practical.
      (7)   Runoff water shall be diverted to a sedimentation basin before
being allowed to enter the natural drainage system.
   (F)   Storm drainage. All subdivision design shall incorporate adequate
provisions for storm water runoff and be subject to review and approval of the
City Engineer.
   (G)   Protected areas.
      (1)   Where land proposed for subdivision is deemed environmentally
sensitive by the City, due to the existence of wetlands, drainage ways,
watercourses, floodable areas or steep slopes, the design of the subdivision
shall clearly reflect all necessary measures of protection to ensure against
adverse environmental impact.
      (2)   Based upon the necessity to control and maintain certain sensitive
areas, the Council, based upon the review of the City Engineer, shall determine
whether said protection will be accomplished through lot enlargement and
redesign, or establishment of those sensitive areas in the form of outlots, or
conservation easements.
      (3)   In general, measures of protection shall include design solutions
which allow for construction and grading involving a minimum of alteration to
sensitive areas. Where these areas are to be incorporated into lots within the
proposed subdivision, the subdivider shall be required to demonstrate that the
proposed design will not require construction on slopes over 18%, or result in
significant alteration to the natural drainage system such that adverse impacts
cannot be contained within the plat boundary.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 30.13)
§ 154.192 PARK LAND DEDICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose and findings.
      (1)   M.S. § 462.358, subd. 2b, as it may be amended from time to time,
provides that municipal subdivision regulations may require that a reasonable
portion of any proposed subdivision be dedicated to the public, or preserved
for conservation purposes or for public use as parks, playgrounds, trails,
wetlands or open space, and that the municipality may alternatively accept an
equivalent amount in cash.
      (2)   The City Council finds that:
         (a)   The preservation and development of parks, playgrounds and open
space areas within the City are essential to maintaining a healthy and
desirable environment for residents and persons employed within the City.
Further, the value and attractiveness of residential and commercial/industrial
developments to landowners, developers, purchasers, employers and employees is
significantly enhanced by the presence of the parks and open space amenities;
         (b)   New developments place a burden upon the City’s parks and open
space system. New facilities must be developed concurrently with development in
order to maintain the current level of service and the quality of the
environment for all. Therefore, new developments shall be required to
contribute toward the City’s park system in rough proportion to the relative
burden they will place upon the park system, in order to maintain the existing
level of service to the community;
         (c)   Residential development of land creates approximately 90% of the
need for park and recreational land and facilities within the City;
         (d)   Commercial/industrial development of land creates approximately
10% of the need for park and recreational land and facilities within the City;
and
         (e)   Development of land for schools creates additional demand on the
City’s park and recreational land and facilities, to the extent that the school
serves students who do not live within the City.
   (B)   Dedication required.
      (1)   At the time of subdivision, the developer shall dedicate land for
public use as parks, playgrounds, recreation facilities, trails or public open
space, in an amount equal to the development’s proportional share of the City
park system. Any land dedicated shall be in a location and of a character
consistent with and suitable for meeting the needs identified by the City’s
Comprehensive Plan. Generally, land located within floodplains and/or wetlands
shall not be accepted to meet the proportional share of required land
dedication. The City may consider accepting ownership of these lands without
giving credit for park dedication.
      (2)   If the City Council determines that land is not needed in the area
of the proposed subdivision, the City may alternatively require payment of an
equivalent amount in cash. Any such cash payment shall be used for the
acquisition and improvement of land for parks, playgrounds, trails or public
open space, or as otherwise provided by statute. The fair market value of the
land shall be used to determine the cash payment required in lieu of land
dedication, subject to the minimum payments required in division (J) below.
      (3)   If the City Council determines that land is needed in the
development, but in a lesser amount than the required proportionate share, the
Council may require payment of cash in lieu of land dedication based on a pro-
rata share of the land dedication that otherwise would be required
   (C)   Parks Committee. The Parks Committee shall recommend to the City
Council, the land and/or cash contribution requirements for proposed
subdivisions.
   (D)   Increase in density. Any increase in density of subdivisions shall be
reviewed by the Parks Committee for reconsideration of park land and/or cash
contribution requirements.
   (E)   Official map/Comprehensive Plan. When a proposed park, playground,
recreation area or other public ground has been indicated in the City’s
official map or Comprehensive Plan and is located in whole or in part within a
proposed subdivision, it shall be designated as such on the plat and shall be
conveyed to the City. If the subdivider elects not to dedicate an area in
excess of the land required hereunder for the proposed public site, the City
may consider acquiring the site through purchase or condemnation.
   (F)   Density requirement. Land area conveyed or dedicated to the City shall
not be used in calculating density requirements of the City zoning ordinance
and shall be in addition to and not in lieu of open space requirements for
planned unit developments.
   (G)   Private open space. Where private open space for park and recreation
purposes is provided in a proposed subdivision, the areas will not be used for
credit against the land or cash dedication requirement for park and recreation
purposes.
   (H)   Dedication requirement presumptively appropriate. The dedication
requirements based on the development’s proportional share of the City park
system are presumptively appropriate. A subdivider may request a deviation from
the presumptive requirements based upon the anticipated impact of that
particular subdivision. The request must be made to the City Council as part of
an application before final plat approval.
   (I)   Land dedication.
      (1)   Residential.
         (a)   In residential subdivisions where a land dedication is required,
the following formula will be used to determine the developments proportional
share:
 
Density: Units Per Acre Land Dedication Percentage
0 - 4                   10%
4+/- 8                  13%
8 +                     15%
 
         (b)   When land dedication is required, a cash contribution for
playground and recreation facilities, shall also be required:
            1.   Single-family dwelling unit: $200 per unit; and
            2.   Multi-family dwelling unit: $150 per unit.
      (2)   Commercial/industrial. In commercial or industrial subdivisions
where a land dedication is required the following formula will be used to
determine the development’s proportional share: 5% of the gross area of land
being platted.
   (J)   Cash contribution. In lieu of land dedication, the City may require
the following cash contribution, as a minimum:
      (1)   Commercial: $4,500 per acre of land being platted, but not less
than $300 per subdivision;
      (2)   Industrial: $3,000 per acre of land being platted, but not less
than $300 per subdivision;
      (3)   Multi-family dwelling units: $1,200 per dwelling unit; and
      (4)   Single-family dwelling units: $1,500 per dwelling unit.
   (K)   Fair market value. Fair market value shall be determined as of the
time of final subdivision approval in accordance with the following:
      (1)   The City and the developer may agree as to the fair market value;
      (2)   The fair market value may be based, upon a current appraisal
submitted to the City by the subdivider at the subdivider’s expense. The
appraisal shall be made by appraisers who are approved members of the SREA or
MAI, or equivalent real estate appraisal societies; or
      (3)   If the City disputes such appraisal the City may, at the
subdivider’s expense, obtain an appraisal of the property by a qualified real
estate appraiser, which appraisal shall be conclusive evidence of the fair
market value of the land.
   (L)   Planned unit developments. Planned unit developments with mixed land
uses shall make cash and/or land contributions in accordance with this section
based upon the percentage of land devoted to the various uses.
   (M)   Calculation and time of payment. Cash contributions are to be
calculated at the time, of final subdivision approval. The Council may require
the payment at the time of final subdivision approval or at a later time under
terms agreed upon in the development agreement. Delayed payment shall include
interest at a rate set by the City.
   (N)   Limitations on use and cash contributions. Cash contributions shall be
deposited in the Park Dedication Fund and shall only be used for the
acquisition of land for the purposes set forth in division (A) above and the
planning and development of land for such purposes.
   (O)   Previously platted property. Property being subdivided without an
increase in the number of lots shall be exempt from park and trail dedication
requirements if similar requirements were satisfied in conjunction with an
earlier subdivision. If the number of lots is increased, then the dedication
shall be based on the additional lots created.
   (P)   Outlots. In plats that include outlots for future development, the
subdivider may pay to the City if the development’s proportional share for the
entire subdivision, including the outlots, or if the development’s proportional
share, excluding the outlots; provided that, the dedication requirement shall
be satisfied when the outlots are replatted.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 30.14)
§ 154.193 REQUIRED BASIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   Before a final plat is delivered by the City to the subdivider, the
subdivider of the land covered by the plat shall pay all applicable fees and
execute and submit to the Council a developer’s agreement which shall be
binding on his or her or their heirs, personal representatives and assigns, a
part of which agreement shall be set forth that the subdivider will cause no
private construction to be made on the lands within the plat, nor shall the
subdivider file or cause to be filed any application for building permits for
the construction until all improvements required under this subchapter have
been made or arranged for in the manner and conforming to the requirements as
set forth herein, or as may be otherwise set forth in the developer’s
agreement.
      (2)   Prior to the delivery of the approved final plat, the subdivider
shall deposit with the City Clerk-Treasurer an amount equal to a minimum of
125% of the City Engineer’s estimated cost of the required improvements
(including engineering, legal and fiscal costs) within the plat, either in a
cash escrow fund, or acceptable letter of credit. The surety involved in the
financial guarantees shall be approved by the City. The surety shall be
conditioned upon:
         (a)   The making and installing of all of the improvements required by
the terms and conditions set forth by the City within one year, or as otherwise
set forth in the developer’s agreement;
         (b)   Satisfactory completion of the work and payment therefor, which
work was undertaken by the subdivider in accordance with the developer’s
agreement referred to above; and
         (c)   The payment by the subdivider to the City of all expenses
incurred by the City, which expenses shall include, but not be limited to,
expenses for engineering, fiscal, legal, construction and administration. In
instances where a cash escrow is submitted in lieu of a letter of credit or
performance and indemnity bond, there shall be a cash escrow agreement which
shall provide that in the event the required improvements are not completed as
set forth in the development agreement, all amounts held under the surety
agreement shall be automatically turned over and delivered to the City and
applied by the City to the cost of completing the required improvements. If the
funds available within the surety agreement are not sufficient to complete the
required improvements, the necessary additional cost to the City shall be
assessed against the subdivision. Any balance remaining in the surety fund
after the improvements have been made and all expenses therefore have been
paid, shall be returned to the subdivider. In instances where a letter of
credit is used in lieu of a cash escrow or performance and indemnity bond, the
letter of credit shall be in a form satisfactory to the City and the terms
thereof shall substantially comply with the procedure as set forth for a cash
escrow fund.
      (3)   No final plat shall be approved by the Council without first
receiving a report signed by the City Engineer and the City Attorney certifying
that the improvements described therein together with the agreements and
documents required under this section, meet the requirements of the City. The
City Clerk-Treasurer shall also certify that all fees required to be paid to
the City in connection with the plat have been paid.
      (4)   The City shall, where appropriate, require of a subdivider
submission of a warranty/ maintenance bond in the amount equal to the original
cost of the improvements, which shall be in force for one year following the
final acceptance of any required improvements, and shall guarantee satisfactory
performance of the improvements.
      (5)   Reproducible “record drawings” as set forth in the City
requirements for record drawings, and as required by the City Engineer, shall
be furnished to the City by the subdivider for all required improvements. The
“record drawings” shall be certified to be true and accurate by the licensed
engineer responsible for the installation of the improvements.
      (6)   All of the required improvements to be installed under the
provisions of this section shall be approved by and subject to the inspection
of the City Engineer. All of the City’s expenses incurred as the result of the
required improvements shall be paid either directly, indirectly or by
reimbursement to the City by the subdivider.
   (B)   Monuments.
      (1)   Official monuments, as designated and adopted by the County
Surveyor’s office and approved by the County District Court for use as judicial
boundary of the final plat or in accordance with a plan as approved by the City
Engineer. The boundary line of the property to be included with the plat to be
fully dimensioned; all angles of the boundary excepting the closing angle to be
indicated; all monuments and surveyor’s irons to be indicated, each angle point
of the boundary perimeter to be so monumented.
      (2)   Pipes or steel rods shall be placed at each lot and at each
intersection of street centerlines. All United States, state, county or other
official bench marks, monuments or triangular stations in or adjacent to the
property shall be preserved in precise position and shall be recorded on the
plat. All lot and block dimensions shall be shown on the plat and all necessary
angles pertaining to the lots and blocks, as an aid to future surveys shall be
shown on the plat. No ditto marks will be permitted in indicating dimensions.
      (3)   (a)   To ensure that all irons and monuments are correctly in place
following the final grading of a plat, a second monumentation shall be
required.
         (b)   Proof of the second monumentation shall be in the form of a
surveyor’s certificate and this requirement shall additionally be a condition
of certificate of occupancy.
   (C)   Street improvements.
      (1)   The full width of the right-of-way shall be graded, in accordance
with the provisions for construction as outlined in §
154.191 of this chapter.
      (2)   All streets shall be improved in accordance with the standards and
specifications for street construction as established by the City.
      (3)   All streets to be surfaced shall be of an overall width in
accordance with the standards and specifications for construction as
established by the City. The portion of the right-of-way outside the area
surfaced shall be sodded or otherwise surfaced by the developer if deemed
necessary by the City Engineer.
      (4)   Where required, the curb and gutter shall be constructed in
accordance to the standards and specifications for street construction as set
forth and approved by the Council.
      (5)   The grade and drainage requirements for each plat shall be reviewed
and subject to the approval of the City Engineer at the expense of the
applicant. Every plat presented for final signature shall be accompanied by a
certificate of the City Engineer that the grade and drainage requirements have
been met. In an area not having municipal storm sewer trunk, the applicant
shall be responsible, before platting, to provide for a storm water disposal
plan, without damage to properties outside the platted area and the storm water
disposal plan shall be submitted to the City Engineer, who shall report to the
Council on the feasibility of the plan presented. No plat shall be approved
before an adequate storm water disposal plan is presented and approved by the
City Engineer and Council. The use of dry wells for the purpose of storm water
disposal is prohibited. In the event that there is not an approved overall
storm water disposal plan, an escrow account on a per unit charge for future
installation shall be established by the applicant and held by the City.
      (6)   All landscaping, to include trees and boulevard sodding, shall be
planted in conformance with the landscaping plans, and the standards and
specifications established by the City.
      (7)   Street and traffic-control signage of the design approved by City
shall be installed at each street intersection, or as otherwise directed.
      (8)   Driveway approaches and sidewalks of a standard design, or
pedestrian pathways as may be required by the Council shall be installed.
      (9)   Street lighting system and fixtures as may be required by the City,
shall be installed.
   (D)   Sanitary sewer and water distribution improvements.
      (1)   Sanitary sewers and water facilities shall be installed in
accordance with the standards and specifications as required by the Council and
subject to the approval of the City Engineer.
      (2)   Where City sewer and water facilities are not available for
extension into proposed subdivision, the Council may permit the use of
individual water and sewer systems in accordance with all appropriate state and
local regulations.
   (E)   Public utilities. Telephone, cable, electric and/or gas service lines
are to be placed underground in accordance with the provisions of all
applicable City code provisions.
   (F)   Election by City to install improvements. In accordance with City
policy, the City normally assumes the responsibility to install all required
improvements; except that, the City reserves the right to allow or require the
subdivider to install all or any part of the improvements required under the
provisions of this subchapter, pursuant to M.S. Ch. 429, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (G)   Railroad crossings. No street dedications will be accepted which
require a crossing of a railroad unless sufficient land as determined by the
Council is dedicated to ensure safe sight distance conditions.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 30.15)
§ 154.194 NON-PLATTED SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Registered land surveys. It is the intention of this subchapter that
all registered land surveys in the City should be presented to the Planning
Commission in the form of a preliminary plat in accordance with the standards
set forth in this subchapter for preliminary plats and that the Planning
Commission shall first approve the arrangement, sizes and relationships of
proposed tracts in the registered land surveys, and that tracts to be used as
easements or roads should be so dedicated. Unless a recommendation and approval
have been obtained from the Planning Commission and Council respectively, in
accordance with the standards set forth in this subchapter, building permits
will be withheld for buildings on tracts which have been so subdivided by
registered land surveys and the City may refuse to take over tracts as streets
or roads or to improve, repair or maintain any such tracts unless so approved.
   (B)   Conveyance by metes and bounds. No division of one or more parcels in
which the land conveyed is described by metes and bounds shall be made or
recorded if the parcels described in the conveyance are five acres or less in
area and 300 feet or less in width unless the parcel was a separate parcel of
record at the effective date of this subchapter or created by an administrative
subdivision in §
154.187 of this chapter. Building permits shall be withheld for buildings or
tracts which have been subdivided and conveyed by this method, and the City may
refuse to take over tracts as streets or roads or to improve, repair or
maintain any such tracts.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 30.16)
§ 154.195 VARIANCES, PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS, STANDARDS.
   (A)   Finding.
      (1)   The Planning Commission may recommend a variance from the minimum
standards of this subchapter (not procedural provisions) when, in its opinion,
undue hardship may result from strict compliance. In recommending any variance,
the Commission shall prescribe any conditions that it deems necessary to or
desirable for the public interest. In making its recommendations, the Planning
Commission shall take into account the nature of the proposed use of land and
the existing use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or
work in the proposed subdivision and the probable effect of the proposed
subdivision upon traffic conditions in the vicinity. A variance shall only be
recommended when the Planning Commission finds:
         (a)   There are special and highly unique circumstances or conditions
affecting the property which are not common to other properties in the City and
that the strict application of the provisions of this subchapter would deprive
the applicant of the reasonable and minimum use of his or her land;
         (b)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public health, welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in which
property is situated; and
         (c)   That the variance is to correct inequities resulting from an
extreme hardship limited to topography, soils or other physical factors of the
land.
      (2)   After considerations of the Planning Commission recommendations,
the Council may grant variances, subject to the finding that a hardship exists
according to divisions (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b) and (A)(1)(c) above.
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   Requests for a variance or appeal shall be filed with the City
Clerk-Treasurer on an official application form. The application shall be
accompanied by a fee as established by Council resolution. The application
shall also be accompanied by ten copies of detailed written and graphic
materials necessary for the explanation of the request.
      (2)   Upon receiving the application, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall
refer the application, along with all related information, to the Planning
Commission for a report and recommendation to the Council.
      (3)   City staff shall submit a report and recommendation to the
Commission. The final report and recommendations of the City staff shall be
entered in and made part of the permanent written record of the Planning
Commission meeting.
      (4)   The Planning Commission and City staff shall have the authority to
request additional information from the applicant concerning the variance or to
retain expert testimony with the consent and at the expense of the applicant
concerning the variance where the information is declared necessary to insure
preservation of health, safety and general welfare.
      (5)   The Planning Commission shall request the City Clerk-Treasurer to
set a date for a public hearing. Notice of the hearing shall be published in
the official newspaper at least ten days prior to the hearing, and individual
notices shall be mailed not less than ten days, nor more than 30 days, prior to
the hearing to all owners of property within 350 feet of the parcel included in
the request.
      (6)   Failure of a property owner to receive the notice shall not
invalidate any such proceedings as set forth in this subchapter.
      (7)   The Planning Commission shall make a finding of fact and recommend
such actions or conditions relating to the request as it deems necessary to
carry out the intent and purpose of this subchapter. The recommendation shall
be in writing and accompanied by the report and recommendation of the City
staff.
      (8)   The City Council shall place the report and recommendation on the
agenda for the next regular meeting.
      (9)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission and City staff, the Council shall make a recorded finding of fact
and impose any condition it considers necessary to protect the public health,
safety and welfare.
      (10)   A variance of this subchapter shall be by majority vote of the
entire Council.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 30.17)
§ 154.196 MISREPRESENTATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person owning an addition or subdivision of land
within the City, to represent that any improvement upon any of the streets,
alleys or avenues of the addition or subdivision or any sewer in the addition
or subdivision has been constructed according to the plans and specifications
approved by the Council, or has been supervised or inspected by the City, when
the improvements have not been so constructed, supervised or inspected.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 30.18)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the City
Clerk-Treasurer. The City Administrator shall be authorized to undertake any
function that this chapter assigns to the Zoning Officer or Zoning
Administrator. The City Administrator may institute in the name of the City any
appropriate actions or proceedings against a violator as provided by statute,
charter or ordinance.
      (2)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than the maximum penalty for
a misdemeanor under state law. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist
shall constitute a separate offense.
      (3)   In the event of a violation or a threatened violation of this
chapter, the City, in addition to other remedies, may institute appropriate
actions or proceedings to prevent, restrain or abate the violations or
threatened violations. Additionally, the City may issue a civil or
administrative citation imposing a fine in the amount allowed. The civil or
administrative fine may be enforced or collected by civil action.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 22)
   (B)   Any person who violates §§
154.185 through
154.196 of this chapter when he or she performs an act thereby prohibited or
declared unlawful, or fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited or
declared unlawful and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor, except as otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2002, § 30.19)
CHAPTER 155: ANNEXATION RESERVE DISTRICT
Section
   
155.01   Purpose
   
155.02   Authority
   
155.03   Definitions
   
155.04   Administration
   
155.05   Establishment of districts
   
155.06   Use chart
   
155.07   Height, yard and lot regulations
   
155.08   General regulations
   
155.09   Specific development standards
   
155.10   Performance standards
   
155.11   Floodplain Overlay District
   
155.12   WS, Wild and Scenic River District
   
155.13   Subdivision regulations
   
155.14   Future land use map
§ 155.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   To identify land uses and development standards for properties located
in Bridgewater Township and designated for possible annexation to the City as
governed by the annexation agreement dated 7-12-2004;
   (B)   To implement selected policies of the City’s Comprehensive Plan
related to supporting orderly growth, planning land uses to minimize land use
conflicts, strengthening the distinction between the urban City and rural
countryside, residential and urban growth area land use and growth management
areas;
   (C)   To maintain the rural character of the landscape by allowing
agricultural operations and limited single-family residential uses;
   (D)   To defer urban development in areas around the City until extension or
provision of the required public facilities and services is provided. When
public services are available and a landowner/developer makes application for
development and annexation of the land is within the guidelines of the
annexation agreement, the City will consider annexing the land, and then
rezoning and subdividing it consistent with its designation in the
Comprehensive Plan and in accordance with this chapter; and
   (E)   To restrict land uses that have the potential to interfere with the
orderly urban expansion and subdivision at urban densities or designated land
use plan.
§ 155.02 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by the Municipal
Planning Act, M.S. §§ 462.351 to 462.364 and 414.0325, as they may be amended
from time to time, and the annexation agreement between the City of Dundas and
Bridgewater Township dated 7-12-2004.
§ 155.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUT. Physically touching or bordering upon; or to share a common property
line, but not overlap. See ADJOINING LAND.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR FACILITY. Any building or improvement clearly
subordinate to a principal use such as garages, sheds or storage buildings
located on the same parcel as the principal structure.
   ACCESSORY USE.
      (1)   A use that is clearly incidental to, customarily found in
connection with, and (except in the case of accessory off-street parking spaces
or loading) located on the same parcel as the principal use to which it is
related.
      (2)   An ACCESSORY USE includes, but is not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Residential accommodations for servants or caretakers;
         (b)   Swimming pools and private recreational facilities for the use
of the occupants of a residence or their guests;
         (c)   Residential- or agricultural-related storage in a barn, shed,
tool room or similar accessory building;
         (d)   Interior storage of merchandise normally carried in-stock in
connection with a business or industrial use unless the storage is excluded in
the applicable district’s regulations;
         (e)   Accessory off-street parking spaces, open or enclosed; and
         (f)   Uses clearly incidental to a main use such as, but not limited
to, offices of an industrial or commercial complex located on the site of the
commercial or industrial complex.
   ADDITION.
      (1)   A structure added to the original structure at some time after the
completion of the original structure; or
      (2)   An extension or increase in floor area or height of a building or
structure.
   ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW. Review of a zoning or planning application by the
Zoning Administrator to ensure compliance with this chapter and the
Comprehensive Plan.
   ADJOINING LAND. A lot or parcel that shares all or part of a common lot line
with another lot or parcel of land. See ABUT.
   AGRICULTURAL SALES AND SERVICE. An establishment primarily engaged in the
sale or rental of farm tools and small implements, feed, seed and grain, tack,
animal care products, farm supplies and the like, excluding large implements,
and including accessory food sales and machinery repair services.
   AGRICULTURAL USE. Real or personal property used for the production of
crops, tillage, husbandry or farming, including fruit and vegetable production,
tree farming, livestock, poultry, dairy products or poultry products, but not a
facility primarily engaged in processing agricultural products.
   ALTERATION. Any change or rearrangement in the supporting members of an
existing building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders, as well as
any change in doors, windows, means of ingress or egress, or any enlargement to
or diminution of a building or structure, whether horizontally or vertically,
or the move of a building or structure from one location to another. This
excludes normal repairs and maintenance, such as painting or roof replacements.
(See STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS.)
   ANIMAL, FARM. Cattle, hogs, bees, sheep, goats, chickens, turkeys, horses
and other animals commonly accepted as farm animals in the state.
   ANIMAL KENNEL. Any structure or premises in which animals are boarded,
groomed, bred or trained for commercial gain other than horses, cattle,
poultry, swine, sheep or goats. (See KENNEL.)
   ANIMALS, FOOD. Fish, fowl, cattle, swine, llamas, sheep and other non-human
members of the earth’s ecological system raised for the purposes of food
consumption.
   ANIMALS, FUR. Mammals that are raised for their pelts.
   ANIMAL UNIT. A unit of measure used to compare differences in the production
of animal waste that, as a standard, uses the amount of waste produced on a
regular basis by a slaughter steer or heifer. For animals not listed in the
following chart, the number of ANIMAL UNITS shall be defined as the average
weight of the animal divided by 1,000 pounds. This chart shall be amended from
time to time to be consistent with Minn. Rules Ch. 7020.
Animals Equivalent
Animals                                Equivalent
Beef cows                              1.0 animal units
Boars                                  0.4 animal units
Broiler chickens                       0.01 animal units
Calves (150 - 500 lbs.)                0.5 animal units
Dairy cows                             1.4 animal units
Feeder cattle (500 - 1,200 lbs.)       1.0 animal units
Finishing hogs (100 lbs. - market wt.) 0.4 animal units
Grower/feeder pigs (50 - 100 lbs.)     0.4 animal units
Horses                                 1.0 animal units
Layer chickens                         0.01 animal units
Nursery pigs (up to 50 lbs.)           0.05 animal units
Ostriches                              0.4 animal units
Replacement heifers                    1.0 animal units
Sheep                                  0.1 animal units
Sows                                   0.4 animal units
Turkeys                                0.018 animal units
Young dairy stock (500 - 1,000 lbs.)   0.75 animal units
 
   ANNEXATION. The incorporation of a land area into an existing municipality
with a resulting change in the boundaries of that municipality.
   ANNEXATION AGREEMENT. The duly executed document between the City of Dundas
and Bridgewater Township, dated 7-12-2004, that establishes the orderly
annexation for the Annexation Reserve District.
   ANNEXATION RESERVE DISTRICT. The annexation area as described in Exhibit A
of the annexation agreement.
   APPLICANT. A person submitting an application for land use, zoning or
development approvals. (See PERSON.)
   AQUIFER. A geologic formation that is capable of supplying sufficient
quantities of water to a well. AQUIFERS are broadly categorized into two
categories: unconfined and confined. Other terms are applied to further
describe characteristics of AQUIFERS, including artesian and water table
aquifers. AQUIFERS must have the following two properties:
      (1)   The aquifer formation must be porous, such as sand and gravel or
cracks and fractures in more solid rock; and
      (2)   Water must be able to flow through and out of the formation in
quantities large enough to be significant.
   BASEMENT. A space having one-half or more of its floor-to-ceiling height
above the average level of the adjoining ground and with a floor-to-ceiling
height of not less than six and one-half feet.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. An owner-occupied single-family dwelling used in part as
short-term lodging, providing one or more meals per day as part of the
compensation.
   BERM. A landscaped and contoured formation of land that is raised from
natural grade.
   BLOCK. The enclosed area within the perimeter of roads, property lines or
boundaries of a subdivision.
   BLUFF. A hill, cliff or embankment typically overlooking a plain or body of
water, especially on the outside of a stream or river meander, that has the
following characteristics:
      (1)   Part or all of the feature is located within 1,000 feet of a lake
or 300 feet of a river or stream;
      (2)   The slope drains toward the water body; and
      (3)   The slope averages at least 18% over 50 feet, and rises at least 25
feet above the ordinary high water level of the water body; or the grade of the
slope from the toe of the bluff to a point 25 feet or more above the ordinary
high water level averages 30% or greater.
   BLUFF, TOE. The point of a bluff where there is, as visually observed, a
clearly identifiable break in the slope, from steeper to gentler slope above.
If no break in the slope is apparent, the TOE OF THE BLUFF shall be determined
to be the lower end of the lowest ten-foot segment that exceeds 18% slope.
   BLUFF, TOP. The point of a bluff where there is, as visually observed, a
clearly identifiable break in the slope, from the steeper to the gentler slope
above. If no break in the slope is apparent, the TOP OF THE BLUFF shall be
determined to be the upper end of the highest ten-foot segment that exceeds 18%
slope.
   BLUFF IMPACT ZONE. A bluff and land located within 30 feet from the top of
the bluff.
   BLUFFLINE. A line along the top of a slope connecting the points at which
the slope becomes less than 12%. This applies to those slopes within the Wild
and Scenic River District which are beyond the setback provisions from the
ordinary high water level.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The Planning Commission as established in this chapter.
   BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. The Bridgewater Township Board of Supervisors; also
referred to as the TOWN BOARD.
   BOATHOUSE. A structure designed solely for the storage of boats or boating
equipment.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The part of a lot or parcel of sufficient elevation to
accommodate the principal building, a well and on-site sewer system (two
locations), all of which meet applicable codes, ordinances and/or regulations.
   BUILDING. Any structure of any kind for the shelter, support or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattel (personal property) or property of any kind.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A subordinate structure on the same lot as the
principal or main building or use.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the lot on which it is located.
   BUILDING COVERAGE. The ratio of the horizontal area measured from the
exterior surface of the exterior walls of the ground floor of all principal and
accessory buildings on a lot to the total lot area, expressed as a percentage.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from finished grade to the top of the
highest roof beams on a flat or shed roof, the deck level on a mansard roof and
the average distance between the eaves and the ridge level for gable, hip and
gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to a lot line at the required setback or the
ordinary high water level at the required setback beyond which a structure may
not extend.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Building Official of Bridgewater Township or his or
her authorized representative.
   BUILDING PERMIT. Written permission issued by the proper township authority
for the construction, repair, alteration or addition to any structure governed
by this chapter.
   BUILDING SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance prescribed in this chapter
between a building and a specified lot line or boundary.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line parallel with the street right-of-way, private
road, property line, ordinary high water mark or access easement, at the
required setback beyond which a building may not extend.
   BUILDING, TEMPORARY. A structure that has no electrical or water
connections, no permanent foundation and is built to be movable when empty.
   BULK REGULATIONS. Standards and controls that establish the maximum size of
structures and the buildable area within which the structure can be located,
including height, gross floor area, lot coverage, impervious surface coverage
and yard requirements, but excluding residential density regulations.
   CAMPGROUND. An area accessible by vehicle and containing camp sites for
tents and trailer camping.
   CENTRALIZED WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS; CENTRALIZED UTILITIES. Utility systems
serving a group of buildings, lots or an area of the ARD, with the design and
construction of such utility systems as approved by the Planning Commission
and/or the state.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A document issued by the Building Official
allowing the occupancy or use of a building and certifying that the structure
or use has been constructed and will be used in compliance with all the
applicable codes and ordinances at the time of occupancy.
   CERTIFICATE OF SURVEY. Shows the boundary lines of a parcel or parcels and
indicates monuments set at corners (or road right-of-way when abutting roads),
angle points of the parcel or parcels and also at appropriate locations along
boundary lines or lines where lines cannot be seen from corner to corner and
there is a need to clarify building setback requirements. The SURVEY shall be
tied into required and identified land corners. The drawing shall be prepared
by or under the direct supervision of a state-registered land surveyor.
   CHURCH (PLACE OF WORSHIP, RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION).
      (1)   A church, synagogue, temple, mosque or other facility that is used
for prayer by persons of similar beliefs; and
      (2)   A special-purpose building that is architecturally designed and
particularly adapted for the primary use of conducting formal religious
services on a regular basis.
   CLEAR-CUTTING. The removal of a major portion (more than 90%) of a stand of
trees and woody vegetation. (See LOGGING, INTENSIVE VEGETATION and SHORELAND
REGULATIONS.)
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. A subdivision development planned and constructed so as
to group housing units into relatively compact patterns while providing a
unified network of open space.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. Land use for agriculture, natural habitat, pedestrian
corridors and/or recreation purposes, that is permanently protected from future
development.
   COMMERCIAL USE. The principal use of land or buildings for the sale, lease,
rental or trade of products, goods and services.
   COMMISSIONER, DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES. The Commissioner of the
Department of Natural Resources or his or her designee within the Department.
   COMMISSION. See PLANNING COMMISSION.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The general plan for land use, transportation and
community facilities of the City.
   COMPOSTING. The aerobic decomposition of organic wastes to a relatively
stable humus subject to further, slower decay, but sufficiently stable not to
reheat or cause odor or insect infestation.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A land use of development as defined by ordinance that
would not be allowed without stipulated conditions, but may be allowed with
appropriate restrictions as provided by official controls upon a finding that:
      (1)   Certain conditions as detailed in the zoning ordinance exist;
      (2)   The use or development conforms to the Comprehensive Plan; and
      (3)   The use is compatible with the existing neighborhood.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit specially and individually granted for a
conditional use permitted in any use district.
   CONSERVATION EASEMENT. A legal agreement restricting development of farmland
or natural areas. Lands subject to a CONSERVATION EASEMENT are generally
restricted to farming and open space uses. A CONSERVATION EASEMENT does not
imply any right of public access, except for periodic monitoring by the agency
or entity holding the easement.
   CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS. Concrete, blacktop, bricks, stone facing, concrete
block, stucco, glass, structural steel and wood from demolished structures. It
shall also include waste building materials, packaging and rubble resulting
from construction, remodeling, repair and demolition of buildings and roads,
and any material as defined by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) or
permitted for deposit in construction debris disposal facilities by the agency,
such as, but not limited to, foundry, sand, waste, shingles, tree waste, waste
or water treatment plant lime sludge and street sweepings.
   CONTIGUOUS. Next to, abutting or touching and having a common shared
boundary, or portion thereof, that is coterminous. (See ABUT; ADJOINING LAND.)
   CONTOUR MAP. A map on which irregularities of land surface are shown by
lines connecting points of equal elevations. Contour interval is the vertical
height between contour lines.
   CONTRACTOR’S YARD. Outdoor storage of materials and vehicles associated with
a contractor’s office that shares the site.
   COPY. A print or reproduction made from a drawing.
   COTERMINOUS. Having the same border or covering the same area.
   COUNTY. Rice County, Minnesota.
   CROP EQUIVALENCY RATING. The weighted average per quarter-quarter section of
land that represents the relative net economic return per acre of soil as
reflected by the difference in productivity between soils, as determined by the
University of Minnesota and adopted by the County Board of Commissioners.
   DAY CARE FACILITY. Any facility, public or private, which for gain or
otherwise, regularly provides one or more persons with care, training,
supervision, habilitation, rehabilitation or development guidance on a regular
basis for periods of less than 24 hours a day, in a place other than the
person’s own home. DAY CARE FACILITIES include, but are not limited to, family
day care homes, group family day care homes, day care centers, day nurseries,
developmental achievement centers, day treatment programs, adult day care
centers and day services.
   DECK. A horizontal, unenclosed platform with or without attached railings,
seats, trellises or other features attached or functionally related to a
principal use or site.
   DENSITY. The number of families, individuals, dwelling units, households or
housing structures per unit of land.
   DOMESTIC PETS. House pets such as dogs, cats and birds which can be
contained within a principal structure throughout the entire year; provided
that, containment can be accomplished without special modification to the
structure requiring a building permit. In addition, this definition includes
birds and rabbits normally sheltered outside the home.
   DEVELOPER. The legal or beneficial owner or owners of a lot or of any land
included in a proposed development, including the holder of an option or
contract to purchase or other person having enforceable proprietary interests
in the land.
   DEVELOPMENT. The act of building structures and installing site
improvements; a group of buildings constructed as a unified project.
   DISTRICT. A part, zone or geographic area within which certain zoning or
development regulations apply.
   DRAINAGEWAY. Any natural or artificial watercourse, including, but not
limited to, streams, rivers, brooks, creeks, ditches, channels, canals,
conduits, culverts, streams, waterways, gullies, ravines or washes, in which
water flows in a definite direction or course, either continually or
intermittently; and including any area adjacent thereto which is subject to
inundation by reason of interflow or flood water.
   DREDGING. The process by which soils, mostly in the form of silt, or other
surface materials which are transported by surface water as a product of
erosion into a body of water are removed for the purpose of deepening the body
of water.
   DRIVEWAY. The area used for vehicular access to an off-street parking area
from a street, road or alley. DRIVEWAY shall also include the area used for
vehicular access to areas of the lot other than an off-street parking area.
   DUST-FREE. A minimum treatment of the native soil with a covering of
asphalt, concrete, wood, masonry, gravel, oil penetration or soil-cement.
   DWELLING, DETACHED. A dwelling unit that is entirely surrounded by open
space on the same lot.
   DWELLING, ENERGY EFFICIENT. A dwelling meeting the specifications of the
state’s Energy Code.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A free-standing (detached) residence designed for
or occupied by one family only, including manufactured homes that meet current
federal U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) standards.
   DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE. A one-family dwelling in a row of at least three such
units in which each unit has its own front and rear access to the outside, no
unit is located over another unit, and each unit is separated from any other
unit by one or more vertical common fire-resistant walls. (See DWELLING,
SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED.)
   DWELLING UNIT. Two or more rooms within a structure that are arranged,
designed or used as living quarters for one family only. Individual bathrooms
and complete kitchen facilities, permanently installed, shall be included for
each dwelling. A mobile or manufactured home, with the above accommodations,
located in areas approved for mobile or manufactured homes shall be considered
a DWELLING UNIT. House trailers, camper-trailers, camper-buses or tents are not
considered DWELLING UNITS.
   EASEMENT. A grant by an owner of land for the specific use of the land by
the public or to a person or persons.
   EASEMENT, UTILITY. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of
land for the purpose of constructing and maintaining utilities, including, but
not limited to, sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines, cable television
lines, telephone poles, storm sewer or storm drainage and gas lines.
   ENCROACHMENT, FLOODPLAINS, LIMITS OF OBSTRUCTION FLOWS. A method of
determining the location of encroachment so that hydraulic capacity of
floodplain lands on each side of a stream are increased by an equal amount when
calculating the increases in flood stages.
   EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location of
floodway boundaries so that floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
   EROSION. The process by which the ground surface is worn away by action of
wind, water, ice and gravity or other outside natural forces acting on it.
   ESSENTIAL AND TRANSMISSION SERVICES. Overhead or underground electrical,
gas, steam, chilled water or water transmission or distribution systems and
structures, or collection, communication supply or disposal systems and
structures used by public utilities or governmental departments or commissions
or as required for protection of the public health, safety and welfare,
including towers, poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables,
fire alarm boxes, police call boxes and accessories in connection therewith,
but not including buildings.
   EXCAVATION or EXTRACTION. Any artificial movement of the earth within the
ARD, dug, excavated or made by the removal from the natural surface of the
earth of soil, sand, gravel, stone, industrial minerals or other non-metallic
minerals or other matter or made by tunneling or breaking or undermining the
surface of the earth.
   EXOTIC ANIMALS. Any animal that is not normally domesticated in the United
States or is wild by nature. EXOTIC ANIMALS include, but are not limited to,
any of the following orders and families, whether bred in the wild or
captivity, and also any of the hybrids with domestic species. The animals
listed in parentheses are intended to act as examples and are not to be
construed as an exhaustive list or limit the generality of each group of
animals, unless otherwise specified:
      (1)   Non-human primates and prosimians (monkeys, chimpanzees, baboons);
      (2)   Felidae (lions, tigers, bobcats, cougars, leopards, jaguars, not
domesticated cats);
      (3)   Canidae (wolves, coyotes, foxes, jackals, not domesticated dogs);
      (4)   Ursidae (all bears);
      (5)   Reptilia (all venomous snakes, iguanas, turtles, lizards);
      (6)   Crocodilia (alligators, crocodiles);
      (7)   Proboscidae (elephants);
      (8)   Artiodactyla (hippotamuses, giraffes, camels, not cattle or swine
or sheep or goats);
      (9)   Procyonidae (raccoons, coatis);
      (10)   Hyaenidae (hyenas);
      (11)   Marsupialia (kangaroos, opossums);
      (12)   Perissodactylea (rhinoceroses, tapirs, not horses or donkeys or
mules);
      (13)   Edentata (anteaters, sloths, armadillos); and
      (14)   Viverridae (mongooses, civets and genets).
   EXTERIOR STORAGE (INCLUDES OPEN STORAGE). The storage of goods, materials,
equipment, manufactured products and similar items not fully enclosed by a
building.
   FAMILY. An individual, or two or more persons related by blood, marriage or
adoption, or up to six unrelated persons, living together as a single
housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit.
   FARM. A tract of land which is principally used for agricultural activities
such as the production of cash crops, livestock or poultry farming.
   FEEDLOT. A fenced land area or building or combination thereof of fenced
land area and buildings intended for the confined feeding, breeding, raising or
holding of animals exceeding ten animal units and specifically designed as a
confinement area in which manure may accumulate, or where the concentration of
animals is such that a vegetative cover cannot be maintained within the
enclosure.
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FIELD WINDBREAK. A strip or belt of trees or shrubs more than 100 feet in
length, 50 feet or less in width, adjacent to or within a field.
   FILL.
      (1)   A built-up piece of land, an embankment or the material, such as
earth or gravel, used for this; and
      (2)   To build up the level of an area with earth, stones and the like.
   FINAL APPROVAL. The last official action of the Planning Commission taken on
a development plan that has been given preliminary approval, after all
conditions and requirements of the preliminary approval have been met and the
required improvements have either been installed or guarantees properly posted
for their installation, or approved conditioned upon the posting of the
guarantees.
   FINAL PLAT. A drawing in final form, showing a proposed subdivision
containing all information and detail required by state statutes and this
chapter to be presented to the Planning Commission for approval, and which, if
approved, shall be duly filed with the County Recorder.
   FLOOD. A temporary rise in stream flow or flood stages that results in
inundation of the normally dry areas adjacent to the channel.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY. The average frequency, statistically determined, for which
it is expected that a specific flood state or discharge may be equaled or
exceeded.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the delineated
floodway and which has been or hereafter may be covered by a regional flood.
Land within a FLOOD FRINGE is subject to inundation by relatively low veloCity
flows and shallow water depth.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. The Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) is produced by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The FIRM is the most common map
and most communities have this type of map. At a minimum, flood maps show flood
risk zones and their boundaries, and may also show floodways and base flood
elevations (BFEs).
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel of the floodplain outside of the delineated floodway
and which has been or hereafter may be covered by the regional flood.
FLOODPLAIN AREAS within the ARD shall encompass all areas designated as Zone A
on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA).
   FLOOD-PROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding primarily for the
reduction or elimination of damage caused by flooding.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of the watercourse, the bed of a wetland or lake and
those portions of the adjoining floodplains which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building measured from the exterior walls, including basements and attached
accessory structures.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO. The gross floor area of all buildings or structures on a
lot divided by the total lot area.
   FOREST LAND. Land not currently developed for non-forest use and having at
least 20% stocking of deciduous trees. Contiguous areas of trees must have a
minimum crown width of 120 feet and trees with a minimum diameter, measured at
four and one-half feet above grade, of 12 inches to qualify as FOREST LAND.
Land within ravines, on steep slopes, below the ordinary high water level, or a
floodplain, shall not constitute FOREST LAND. Unimproved roads and trails,
streams or other bodies of water or clearings in forest areas will not be
classified as FOREST LAND. The minimum contiguous area for classification of
forest land is one acre, minimum width is 120 feet and minimum canopy density
is 60%.
   FORESTRY. The use and management, including logging, of a forest, woodland
or plantation and related research and educational activities, including the
construction, alteration or maintenance of wood roads, skidways, landings and
fences.
   FRONTAGE. The boundary of a lot that abuts an existing or dedicated public
street.
   GARAGE. An accessory building or accessory portion of the principal building
that is intended for and used exclusively to shelter private passenger vehicles
of a family or those families residing on the premises.
   GARAGE, REPAIR. A building or space for the maintenance of vehicles, but not
including auto wrecking or junk yards.
   GARAGE SALE. Includes rummage sales, basement sales, yard sales, porch sales
and all other periodic sales at a residential location intended for the limited
purpose of isolated or occasional sales as defined by M.S. § 297A.67, subd. 23,
as it may be amended from time to time, for the selling of used goods or home-
crafted items by the residents thereof.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Planning Commission of the City.
   GOVERNMENT BUILDING. A building owned by a government agency that is used
for an allowed use within the ARD.
   GROUP FAMILY DAY CARE FACILITY. A state licensed day care for no more than
14 children at any one time. The total number of children includes all children
of any caregiver when the children are present in the residence.
   GRADE.
      (1)   The average elevation of the land around a building;
      (2)   The percent of rise or descent of a sloping surface; and
      (3)   The elevation of the surface of land at any particular point.
   GRADING. Any excavating or filling of earthen materials or combination
thereof, but not including normal agricultural operations.
   HARDSHIP. As used in connection in the granting of a variance, the property
in question cannot be put to a reasonable use if used under the conditions
allowed by the official controls and the plight of the landowner is due to
circumstances unique to the property, not created by the landowner. Economic
considerations alone shall not constitute a HARDSHIP if reasonable use for the
property exists under the terms of this chapter.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Disposal of substances or material that, by reason of its
toxic, caustic, abrasive or otherwise injurious properties, may be detrimental
or deleterious to the health of any person handling in the proximity of, or
otherwise coming into contact with such material or substance. As categorized
by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), HAZARDOUS WASTE includes,
but is not limited to, inorganic mineral acids of sulphur, fluorine, chlorine,
nitrogen, chromium, phosphorus, selenium, arsenic and their common salts; lead,
nickel and mercury and their inorganic salts, or metallo-organic derivatives;
coals, tar acids, such as phenol and cresols and their salts; and all
radioactive materials.
   (SIGNIFICANT) HISTORIC SITE. Any archeological site, standing structure or
other property that meets the criteria for eligibility to the National Register
of Historic Places or is listed in the State Register of Historic Sites, or is
determined to be an unplatted cemetery that falls under the provisions of M.S.
§ 307.08, as it may be amended from time to time. A HISTORIC SITE meets these
criteria if it is presently listed on either register or it if determined to
meet all the qualifications for listing after review by the state’s Historical
Society. All unplatted cemeteries are automatically considered to be
SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC SITES.
   HOME OCCUPATION, PERMITTED. Any activity carried out for gain by a resident
and conducted as a customary, incidental and accessory use in the resident’s
dwelling unit.
   HOME OCCUPATION, PERMITTED WITH INTERIM USE PERMIT. Any activity carried out
for gain by a resident within an accessory building.
   HOMEOWNER’S ASSOCIATION. A formally constituted non-profit association or
corporation made up of the property owners and/or residents of the development
for the purpose of owning, operating and maintaining the common open space and
facilities.
   HOMESTEAD, ABANDONED FARM. A site previously occupied by a farm dwelling and
evidenced by a foundation, uninhabitable farm dwelling, windbreak, outbuildings
or other observable physical features.
   HUNTING CLUB. A private non-commercial site maintained by a membership
organization for the purpose of hunting and related outdoor recreation.
   IMPERMEABLE. Not permitting the passage of water.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any material that prevents absorption of storm water
into the ground.
   INCIDENTAL. Subordinate and minor in significance and bearing a reasonable
relationship with the primary use.
   INDIVIDUAL SEPTIC TREATMENT SYSTEM (ISTS). A system for the treatment and
disposal of sanitary sewage in the ground on the lot upon which the primary use
is located. A septic tank and soil absorption system or other individual
cluster type sewage treatment systems as described and regulated under Minn.
Rules Ch. 7080, as amended.
   INDUSTRIAL USE. The use of land or buildings for the production,
manufacture, warehousing, storage or transfer of goods, products commodities or
other wholesale items.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any liquid, gaseous or solid waste substance resulting
from any process of industry, manufacturing trade or business or from the
development of any natural resource.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. Laboratory waste, blood, regulated body fluids, sharps and
research animal waste that has not been decontaminated.
   INTENSIVE VEGETATION CLEARING. More than 90% removal of trees or shrubs in a
contiguous patch, strip, row or block. (See CLEAR CUTTING, LOGGING.)
   INTERIM USE. Temporary use of property until a particular date, until the
occurrence of a particular event, or until zoning regulations no longer permit
the use.
   INTERIM USE PERMIT. A temporary permit issued by the Planning Commission
granting approval of an interim use under conditions listed on said permit.
   IRRIGATION SYSTEM. Any structure or equipment, mechanical or otherwise, used
to supply water supplement normal rainfall including, but not limited to,
wells, pumps, motors, pipes, culverts, gates, dams, ditches, tanks, ponds and
reservoirs.
   JUNK YARD. Land or buildings where waste, discarded or salvaged materials
are brought, purchased, sold, exchanged, stored, cleaned, packed, disassembled
or handled, including, but not limited to, scrap metal, rags, paper, rubber
products, glass products, lumber products and products resulting from the
wrecking of automobiles or other vehicles; provided further that, the storage
of three or more inoperative and/or unlicensed motor vehicles for a period in
excess of three months shall also be considered a JUNK YARD.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any structure or premises on which four or more animals
over four months of age are kept for sale, breeding or profit.
   LAND ALTERATION. The extraction, grading or filling of land involving
movement of earth and materials in excess of 50 cubic yards in the Shoreland
Districts and in excess of 500 cubic yards in all other areas.
   LAND RECLAMATION. The recovery or restoration of wasteland, wetlands,
marshes and the like by ditching, grading, filling or similar means. Any lot or
parcel of land upon which 400 cubic yards or more of fill is to be deposited
shall be LAND RECLAMATION.
   LANDSCAPING. Plantings such as trees, shrubs and or seeding.
   LAND USE PERMIT. Any permit required under this chapter, except building or
structure permits.
   LICENSE. A permit, granted by an appropriate governmental body, generally
for a consideration, to a person, firm or corporation to pursue some occupation
or to carry on some business subject to regulation under police power.
   LICENSED ARCHITECT. A person licensed as a professional architect by the
state.
   LICENSED Day care FACILITY. Any public or private facility required to be
licensed by a governmental agency that provides one or more persons with care,
training, supervision, habilitation, rehabilitation or developmental guidance
on a regular basis, for periods of less than 24 hours per day, in a place other
than the person’s own home. LICENSED DAY CARE FACILITIES include, but are not
limited to: family day care homes; group family day care homes; day care
centers; day nurseries; nursery schools; developmental achievement centers; day
treatment programs; adult day care centers; and day services.
   LICENSED ENGINEER. A person licensed as a professional engineer by the
state.
   LICENSED LAND SURVEYOR. A person licensed as a professional surveyor by the
state.
   LICENSED RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY. Any public or private facility required
to be licensed by a governmental agency, that provides one or more persons with
a 24- hour-per-day substitute for care, food, lodging, training, education,
supervision, habilitation, rehabilitation and treatment they need, but which
for any reason cannot be furnished in the person’s own home. RESIDENTIAL
FACILITIES include, but are not limited to, state institutions under the care
of the Commissioner of Human Services, foster homes, residential treatment
centers, group homes, residential programs, supportive living residences for
functionally-impaired adults or schools for handicapped persons.
   LIVABLE SPACE. The total area, measured in square feet, of a story or
stories of a residential dwelling that is used for living space.
   LIVESTOCK WASTE STORAGE FACILITY. A diked enclosure, pit or structure for
temporary disposal or storage of livestock wastes.
   LOADING BERTH. An unobstructed area provided and maintained for the
temporary parking of trucks and other motor vehicles and for the purpose of
loading and unloading goods, wares, materials and merchandise.
   LODGING ROOM. A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without
cooking facilities. In a suite of rooms, without cooking facilities, each room
which provides sleeping accommodations shall be counted as one LODGING ROOM.
   LOGGING.
      (1)   The cutting of timber on any public or private land of one acre or
more for the major purpose of selling the timber for a profit.
      (2)   This shall not include the selective cutting of trees by the
property owner for the purpose of removing dead or diseased trees. (Also see
CLEAR-CUTTING.)
   LOT. A parcel of land legally described and recorded with the County
Recorder.
   LOT AREA. The gross lot area is the area of a horizontal plane bounded by
the front, side and rear lot lines, but not including any area occupied by the
waters of a duly recorded lake, river, floodplain zone or floodway.
   LOT, BUILDABLE. A separately described parcel of land, with or without
buildings, used for or intended for occupancy or any use permitted under the
provisions of this chapter, having not less than the minimum area required by
this chapter for each use, excluding buildings to accommodate same, in the
zoning district in which such lot is located and which abuts a public road,
street or highway.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated on the junction of and abutting on two or more
intersecting streets, or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of a
continuous street, the interior angle of which does not exceed 135 degrees.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot, including through lots.
   LOTS, THROUGH. Any lot other than a corner lot that abuts more than one
street.
   LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line or ordinary high water mark or to the most distant point on
any other lot line where there is no rear lot line. The greater frontage of a
corner lot is its depth and its lesser frontage is its width.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. Lots which have a front line abutting on one street
and a back or rear line abutting on another street.
   LOT, SUBSTANDARD. Any lot of record that does not meet the minimum lot area,
frontage, setbacks or other dimensional standards of this chapter.
   LOT LINE. A property boundary line of any lot held in separate ownership
except that where any portion of the lot extends into the abutting alley or
street, the lot line shall be deemed to be the street or alley right-of-way
line.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. That boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or dedicated
public street. A corner lot shall be deemed to have frontage on both streets.
Where a lot does not abut a public dedicated road, the FRONT LINE shall be
designated by the Zoning Administrator.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line opposite the front property line. Where the
side property lines of a lot meet in a point, the REAR PROPERTY LINE shall be
assumed to be a line not less than ten feet long, lying within the lot and
parallel to the front property line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Those lines of a lot that begin at the point of intersection
with a public right-of-way and then run away from the right-of-way. Any
boundary of a lot that is not a front lot line or rear lot line.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot,
parallel to the front lot line and measured at the minimum required front yard
setback.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building’s lowest elevation.
   MAINTENANCE AND MINOR REPAIRS. Includes repair of doors, floors and eave
troughs, repainting and stuccoing of exteriors, interior redecorating,
foundation or basement repair, new heating, air-conditioning and plumbing
equipment or repair of present equipment; each of which may be done in total,
or in part, except the structure shall not be expanded in any way.
   MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME/PREFABRICATED BUILDING. A residential unit
constructed at a factory or assembly point, designed for year round occupancy
and moved to the site in one or more sections. Trailers, campers, buses are not
included.
   MANUFACTURING, LIGHT INDUSTRY. Any enterprise that includes the compounding,
processing, packaging, treatment or assembly of products and materials;
provided, the use will not violate the performance standards found in this
chapter.
   MASS GATHERING. Any outdoor event, or one held in a structure or tent,
attended by more than 100 persons over any two-hour period. Non-recurring
auctions and family events, such as family reunions, graduation parties,
baptisms, confirmations and the like and public community events shall not be
considered a MASS GATHERING.
   MEAN FLOW LEVEL. The average flow elevation of a stream or river computed as
a mid-point between extreme low and extreme high water.
   METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION. A description of real property which is not
described by reference to a lot or block shown on a map or a recorded plot, but
is described by starting at a known point and describing the bearing and
distances of the line forming the boundaries of the property.
   MINING. The extraction of sand, gravel, rock, soil, peat or other material
from the land in the amount of 1,000 cubic yards or more and the removing
thereof from the site without processing shall be MINING. The only exclusion
from this definition shall be removal of materials associated with construction
of a building or structure; provided, the removal is an approved item in the
building permit.
   MINING OPERATION. The removal of stone, sand and gravel, peat, black dirt,
topsoil or other material from the land for commercial, industrial, residential
or governmental purposes.
   MIXED-USE BUILDING. A building that combines two or more uses, typically
with non-residential (commercial or office) uses on the ground floor and
residential uses, offices or studios above.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. The meaning given to this term in M.S. § 168.002, subd. 18,
as it may be amended from time to time, and also includes a park trailer as
defined in M.S. § 168.002, subd. 34, as it may be amended from time to time,
and a horse trailer as defined in M.S. § 168.27, subd. 1, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   NATURAL WATERWAY. A natural passageway on the surface of the earth so
situated and having such a topographical nature that surface water flows
through it from other areas before reaching a final ponding area.
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE or NON-CONFORMING USE. A structure or use lawfully
in existence on the effective date of adoption of this chapter and not
conforming to the new regulations for the district in which it is situated.
   NOXIOUS MATTER OR MATERIALS. Material capable of causing injury to living
organisms by chemical reaction, or capable of causing detrimental effects on
physical or economic well-being of individuals.
   NURSERY, DAY. A facility where care is provided for pay for three or more
children for periods of four hours or more per day.
   NURSERY, LANDSCAPE. A business that grows or sells trees, flowering and
decorative plants and shrubs.
   OBSTRUCTION (WATERWAY). Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile,
abutment, projection, excavation, channel rectification, culvert, building,
wire, fence, stockpile, refuse, fill, structure or matter in, along, across or
projecting into any channel, watercourse or regulatory floodplain which may
impede, retard or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself
or by catching or collecting debris carried by the water or that is placed
where the flow of water might carry the same downstream to the damage of life
or property.
   OFFICE. A room or group of rooms used for the management of affairs of an
establishment or for the non-retail, non-production conduct of affairs of a
service, professional, institutional or business nature.
   OFFICIAL CONTROL. Legislatively defined and enacted policies, standards,
precise detailed maps, and other criteria, all of which control the physical
development of the ARD and are the means of translating into ordinances all or
any part of the general objectives of the Comprehensive Plan. The OFFICIAL
CONTROLS may include, but are not limited to, ordinances establishing zoning,
subdivision controls, site plan regulations, sanitary codes, building codes,
housing codes and official maps.
   OFFICIAL MAP. A map established by the Planning Commission, in accordance
with state statutes, showing streets, highways, parks and drainage, both
existing and proposed. (This map should not be confused with the zoning map.)
   OPEN SPACE. Any parcel or area of land or water essentially unimproved and
set aside, dedicated or reserved for public or private use or enjoyment of the
use and enjoyment of owners, occupants and their guests of land adjoining or
neighboring the open space.
   OPEN SPACE RECREATIONAL USE. Recreation use particularly oriented to and
utilizing the outdoor character of an area; including hiking and riding trails,
primitive campsites, campgrounds, waysides parks and recreation areas.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL. The boundary of public waters and wetlands, and
shall be an elevation delineating the highest water level which has been
maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape, commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from
predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial. For watercourses, the
ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is the elevation of the top of the bank of the
channel. For reservoirs and flowage, the ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is the
operating elevation of the normal summer pool.
   OUTLOT. A parcel of land on a plat that is unbuildable with the exception of
public buildings, essential services and parks. This designation may be due to
insufficient size or frontage, peculiar site characteristics, a lack of public
improvements or necessary replatting to utilize any remaining building rights.
It may also delineate the area from which development rights have been taken to
allow clustering on contiguous parcels to preserve open space.
   OVERHANG.
      (1)   The part of a roof or wall that extends beyond the facade of a
lower wall; and
      (2)   The portion of a vehicle extending beyond the wheel stops or curb.
   OWNER. An individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, limited
liability company, corporation, trust or any other legal entity having a legal
or equitable interest in land.
   PARCEL. See LOT.
   PARKING SPACE. A suitably surfaced and permanently maintained area on
privately-owned property either within or outside of a building and of
sufficient size to store one standard automobile.
   PERMIT. The granting of authority by a governmental body to conduct certain
activities.
   PERMITTED USE. A use that is expressly permitted within a district
established by this chapter; provided that, the use conforms with all
requirements, regulations and performance standards (if any) applicable
thereto.
   PERSON. An individual, to include both male and female, and shall also
extend and be applied to bodies political and corporate and to partnerships and
other unincorporated associations.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The duly appointed Planning Commission of the City and
the sole governing body of the Annexation Reserve District.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A type of development characterized by a unified
site design for a number of dwelling units, dwelling sites or other building
sites on a parcel, whether for sale, rent or lease, and also usually involving
clustering of these units or sites to provide areas of common open space,
density increases and/or mix of structure types and land uses.
   PLAT. A map or drawing which geographically delineates the boundary of land
parcels for the purpose of identification and record of title. The PLAT is a
recorded legal document and must conform to all state laws.
   PLATTED AREAS. A parcel of land described by block and lot.
   PORTABLE BUILDING. A structure that can be easily moved when empty and which
is not on a permanent foundation (i.e., sheds, fish houses and the like).
   PREFABRICATED HOME. A non-mobile housing unit, the walls, floors and
ceilings of which are constructed at a central factory and transported to a
building site where final construction is completed, permanently affixing the
unit to the site.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A map or drawing indicating the proposed layout of the
subdivision to be submitted to the Planning Commission for its consideration.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A building in which is conducted the
principal use of the lot on which it is located.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary or main use of land and/or buildings upon same.
PRINCIPAL USES shall be generally categorized as agricultural, residential,
commercial or industrial. If a use is mixed or might qualify under more than
one of the general categories, the Planning Commission shall determine which
category is applicable.
   PROHIBITED USE. A use that is not permitted in a zoning district.
   PROPERTY. A lot, parcel or tract of land together with the building and
structures located thereon.
   PROPERTY LINE. The legal boundaries of a parcel. For setback purposes, a
road right-of-way will be considered a PROPERTY LINE.
   PUBLIC LAND. Land owned or operated by municipal, school district, county,
state or federal governmental units.
   PUBLIC ROAD. Those roads under the direct authority of the town, the county,
the state or the federal government.
   PUBLIC WATERS. Those waters of the state identified as public waters or
wetlands under M.S. § 103G.005, subd. 15 and subd. 15a, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   PUBLICATION. Notice placed in the official newspaper stating the time,
location, date of meeting and description of topic(s).
   QUARTER-QUARTER SECTION. A square measure of approximately 40 acres having
one quarter of a quarter section and lying wholly within a single section.
Correction lines required by the Rectangular Survey System which result in a
quarter-quarter section of less than 40 acres shall constitute a QUARTER-
QUARTER SECTION for purposes of this chapter.
   REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of a
stream or river influenced by a natural or human-made obstruction. In an urban
area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive bridge crossings
would most typically constitute a REACH.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES. Travel trailers including those that telescope or
fold down, chassis mounted campers, house cars, motor homes, tent trailers,
slip in campers and converted buses that provide temporary living quarters. A
vehicle is considered RECREATIONAL if it:
      (1)   Is not used as the residence of the owner or occupant;
      (2)   Is used for temporary living quarters by the owner or occupant
while engaged in recreational or vacation activities;
      (3)   Is self-propelled or towed on the public streets or highways
incidental to the recreational or vacation activities; and
      (4)   Is licensed as a motor vehicle and is maintained in road-ready
condition.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood that is representative of large floods known to have
occurred generally in the state and reasonably characteristic of what can be
expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 100-year
recurrence interval. REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the 100-YEAR FLOODPLAIN
and with the term BASE FLOOD used in the Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEY. A survey map or registered land designating the same
into a tract or tracts of a registered land survey number, prepared by a
licensed land surveyor in the state. See M.S. § 508.47, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. A point not less than one foot above
the water surface profile associated with the regional flood plus any increases
in flood heights attributable to encroachments on the floodplain that result
from designation of a floodway. It is the elevation to which uses regulated by
this chapter are required to be elevated or flood-proofed.
   RELIGIOUS FACILITY (CHURCH). An institution primarily used for the gathering
of people for the practice of religious faith.
   REPAIRABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that can be repaired, rebuilt or
reconditioned for further use consistent with its usual functions. Must be
currently licensed and insured. This term does not include a motor vehicle that
has value only for its component parts.
   RESIDENTIAL USE. A permanent place of residence for a family.
   RESORT. A development consisting of buildings, camping spaces, parking areas
and recreation areas, for lease or rent for short-term residence, on one tract
of land, under one ownership for the purpose of vacationing, relaxation or
recreation.
   RETAIL SALES. Stores and shops selling personal service or goods to
consumers.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.
      (1)   The land covered by a public road or other land dedicated for
public use or for certain private use, such as land over which a power line
passes;
      (2)   A strip of land acquired by reservation, dedication, prescription
or condemnation and intended to be occupied by a road, crosswalk, railroad,
electric transmission lines, oil or gas pipelines, water line, sanitary storm
sewer and other similar uses; and
      (3)   Generally, the right of one to pass over the property of another.
   ROAD. A public right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrians and
vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place or
however designated.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any use that involves or includes the storing, keeping,
salvaging and/or holding for sale of all or parts of the following: unlicensed
and/or inoperable motor vehicles; farm machinery and equipment unless uses as
part of a farm operation or unless held for sale under a permit authorized by
this chapter; scrap iron and scrap metals; and any other item or items which no
longer customarily serve the purpose for which they were designed.
   SCREENING. The method by which a view of one site from another adjacent site
is shielded, concealed or hidden. SCREENING TECHNIQUES include fences, walls,
hedges, berms or other features.
   SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY. An establishment designed and used for the
purpose of renting or leasing storage spaces to tenants who have sole access to
the space for the storage of personal property.
   SEMI-PUBLIC USE. The use of land by a private, non-profit organization to
provide a public service that is ordinarily open to some persons outside the
regular constituency of the organization.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure, sewage
treatment system or other feature and an ordinary high water level, sewage
treatment system, top of a bluff, road, highway, property line or other
feature.
   SEWAGE. Any water-oriented domestic waste, exclusive of subsurface and roof
drainage, from any industrial, agricultural or commercial establishment, or any
dwelling or other structure. Domestic waste includes liquid waste produced by
toilets, bathing, laundry, culinary operations and the floor drains associated
with these sources, and specifically excludes animal waste and commercial or
industrial wastewater.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM. Septic tank and soil absorption system or other
individual or cluster-type sewage treatment system as described and regulated
in this chapter.
   SEWER SYSTEM. Pumping force main, pipelines or conduits, and all other
construction, devices, appliances or appurtenances used for conducting sewage,
industrial waste or other wastes to a point of ultimate disposal.
   SHORE IMPACT ZONE. Land located between the ordinary high water level of
public water and a line parallel to it as a setback of 50% of the normal
structure setback.
   SHORELAND.
      (1)   Land defined on the official zoning map, and generally extending:
         (a)   One thousand feet from the ordinary high water level of a lake,
pond or flowage; and
         (b)   Three hundred feet from a river or stream or the landward extent
of a floodplain.
      (2)   SHORELANDS may also be defined as a physical feature such as a
ridgeline, change in topography or roadway that generally parallels the
shoreline, or by the boundary of an existing developed area.
   SHORELAND SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure and
the ordinary high water level.
   SIGHT DISTANCE TRIANGLE. A triangular shaped portion of land established at
street or driveway intersections in which nothing is erected, placed, planted
or allowed to grow in a manner as to limit or obstruct the sight distance of
motorists entering or leaving an intersection. The TRIANGLE shall be defined
beginning at the intersection of the projected curb (or road edge) lines of two
intersecting streets or at the intersection of projected curb lines (or road
edge) where a driveway intersects a street, measured 25 feet along each curb
line (road edge) and connected by a diagonal line.
   SIGN. A name, identification, description, display, illustration or device
which is affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a building,
structure or land in view of the general public and which directs attention to
a product, place, activity, person, institution or business.
   SIGN, ELECTRONIC. A sign containing a display that can be changed, by
electrical, electronic or computerized process.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES (BILLBOARD). A sign that directs attention to a business
commodity, service, activity or entertainment not conducted, sold or offered
upon the premises where the sign is located.
   SIGN, SURFACE AREA OF. The entire area within a single, continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of the actual sign surfaces. It does not include
any structural elements outside the limits of the sign and not forming an
integral part of the display.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. A banner, pennant, poster or advertising display
constructed of cloth, canvas, plastic sheet, cardboard, wall board or similar
material and intended to be displayed for a limited period of time, but does
not include candidate advertisements.
   SITE. Any lot or parcel or combination of lots or parcels assembled for the
purpose of development.
   SITE PLAN. The development plan for one or more lots on which is shown the
existing and proposed conditions of the lot, including topography, indication
of the north direction, vegetation, drainage, floodplains wetlands and
waterways; landscaping and open spaces; walkways; means of ingress and egress;
circulation; utility services; structures and buildings; signs and lighting;
berms, buffers and screening devices; surrounding development and any other
information that reasonably may be required in order that an informed decision
can be made by the Planning Commission.
   SKETCH PLAN. A concept drawing indicating a proposed subdivision of
property. This plan is not necessarily drawn to scale and exact accuracy is not
a requirement.
   SOIL SURVEY. A soil map or inventory of the soils of an area and a report of
text describing the kinds of soils shown on the map and summarizing what is
known about these soils, including their classification and capabilities.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse and other discarded solid materials, except
animal waste used as fertilizer, including solid waste materials resulting from
industrial, commercial and agricultural operations and from community
activities. SOLID WASTE does not include earthen fill, boulders, rock and other
materials normally handled in construction operations, solid or dissolved
materials in domestic sewage or other significant pollutants in water
resources, such as silt, dissolved or suspended solids in industrial waste
water effluents, dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or other common
water pollutants.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. Any tract or parcel of land, including any
constructed facility used for the treatment of, or preliminary, intermediate or
final disposal of solid waste, including, but not limited to, transfer station,
incineration, composting, waste reduction and landfill disposal.
   STEEP SLOPE. Lands having average slopes over 12%, as measured over
horizontal distances of 50 feet or more.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor above it, or if there is no floor above it, then
the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it and including those
basements used for principal use.
   STORY, HALF. The part of a building under the gable, hip or gambrel roof,
the wall plates of which are not more than four feet above the floor.
   STREET. A public way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a street,
highway, arterial, collector, road, avenue, land, place or otherwise
designated. STREET CLASSIFICATIONS include the following.
      (1)   ARTERIAL STREET OR HIGHWAY. A street or highway designed primarily
to serve as a link between various sectors of the ARD and beyond.
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREET. A street designed to serve the internal traffic
circulation of a recognized land use area which distributes and collects
traffic from local streets and connects with highways and/or arterial streets.
      (3)   CUL-DE-SAC. A comparatively short street having but one end open to
traffic and the other end being permanently terminated by a vehicular turn-
around.
      (4)   LOCAL STREET. A street designed for access to abutting property not
intended to facilitate through traffic.
      (5)   PRIVATE STREET. A street serving as vehicular access to a parcel of
land which is not dedicated to the public, but is owned by one or more private
parties.
      (6)   SERVICE ROAD. A minor street which is parallel and adjacent to an
arterial street or highway and which provides access to abutting properties.
   STREET WIDTH. The width of the right-of-way, measured at right angles to the
centerline of the street.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected that requires location on the
ground or is attached to something having a location on the ground. See also
BUILDING.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person commencing proceedings under this chapter to effect a
subdivision of land whether for that person or for another.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of any parcel of land into two or more lots,
blocks and/or sites, including the resubdivision of land.
   SURFACE WATER-ORIENTED COMMERCIAL USE. The use of land for commercial
purposes, where access to and use of a surface water feature is an integral
part of the normal conduct of business. Marinas, resorts, bait shops,
campgrounds and restaurants with transient docking facilities are examples of
the use.
   TEMPORARY. The use of land, or a structure, that occurs or exists for a
short, limited period of time, as distinguished from uses and structures that
are permanent.
   TOWER. Any ground or roof mounted pole, spire, structure or combination
thereof, including supporting lines, cables, wires, braces and masts, intended
primarily for the use of mounting an antenna, meteorological device, wind
turbine or similar apparatus above grade.
   TOXIC SUBSTANCE. Any single pollutant or combination of pollutants,
including disease-carrying agents, that, after discharge and upon exposure,
ingestion, inhalation or assimilation into any organism, can cause death,
mutations, deformities or malfunctions in the organisms or their offspring and
that adversely affect the environment.
   TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS. The conveyance of development rights by
deed, easement or other legal instrument authorized by the County Recorder to
another parcel of land, and the recordation of that conveyance in the land
records of the county.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle without motor power used for or adaptable for
living, sleeping, business or storage purposes, having no foundation other than
wheels, blocks, skids, jacks, horses or skirting, which does not meet Building
Code requirements and has been or reasonably may be equipped with wheels or
other devices for transporting the structure from place to place and includes
camp car, camp bus, camper and house car. A permanent foundation shall not
change its character unless the entire structure is erected in accordance with
the approved State Building Code.
   USE. Any purpose for which a building or other structure or a tract of land
may be designed, arranged, intended, maintained or occupied; or any activity,
occupation, business or operation carried on or intended to be carried on, in a
building or other structure or on a tract of land.
   USED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle for which title has been transferred
from the person who first acquired it from the manufacturer, distributor or
dealer. A new motor vehicle will not be considered a USED MOTOR VEHICLE until
it has been placed in actual operation and not been held for resale by an owner
who has been granted a certificate of title on the motor vehicle and has
registered the motor vehicle in accordance with M.S. Ch. 168, 168A and 297B, as
they may be amended from time to time, or the laws of the residence of the
owner.
   VARIANCE. Written approval waiving the literal provisions of this chapter in
instances where the strict enforcement would cause undue hardship because of
physical characteristics unique to the parcel of property under consideration
and that are not created by the owner and the variance, if granted, will not
alter the essential character of the locality. Economic considerations alone
shall not constitute an undue hardship if reasonable use for the property
exists under the terms of this chapter.
   WASTE. Infectious waste, nuclear waste, pathological waste, sewage sludge,
solid waste, waste water, process water and hazardous waste.
   WATER-ORIENTED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR FACILITY. A small, above-ground
building or other improvement, except stairways, fences, docks and retaining
walls, which, because of the relationship of its use to a surface water
feature, reasonably needs to be located closer to public waters than the normal
structure setback. Examples of such structures and facilities include
boathouses, gazebos, screen houses, fish houses, pump houses and detached
decks. No bathroom, kitchen facilities or bedrooms are permitted.
   WATER-ORIENTED COMMERCIAL RECREATION. The principal use of land or buildings
in a Shoreland District for the sale, lease, rental or trade of products, goods
and services that relate to a nearby body of water and could not be effective
if operated away from a body of water. Examples include: fishing and bait
shops; and boat and canoe rentals.
   WETLAND. Lands transitional between terrestrial and aquatic systems where
the water table is usually at or near the surface or the land is covered by
shallow water. For purposes of this definition, WETLANDS must have hydric
soils, predominantly hydric vegetation and display wetland hydrology. WETLANDS
are further defined in the Wetland Conservation Act, M.S. §§ 103G.222 through
103G.2372, as they may be amended from time to time.
   YARD. A required open space located on the same lot with a building,
unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground up, except for such accessory
buildings or such projections as are expressly permitted in this chapter. The
minimum depth or width of a yard shall consist of the horizontal distance
between the lot line and any building.
   YARD, FRONT. An unoccupied and unobstructed space on the same lot with a
building extending along the full width of a front lot line and situated
between the front line of the building and the front lot line.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the rear lot line and the nearest line of the building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard lying between the side line of the lot and the nearest
line of the building and extending from the front yard to the rear yard, or in
the absence of either front or rear yards, to the front or rear lot lines.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The person, regardless of job title, designated to
supervise the application of this chapter and to enforce the provisions
thereof.
   ZONING AMENDMENT. A change recommended by the Planning Commission and
authorized by the City Council and the Bridgewater Town Board either in the
allowed use within a district or in the boundaries of a district.
   ZONING DISTRICT. An area or areas within the limits of the Annexation
Reserve District for which the regulations and requirements governing use are
uniform. District boundaries are shown on the official zoning map.
   ZONING MAP. The map or those maps incorporated into and being a part of this
chapter designating zoning districts, and as amended from time to time.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. Zoning regulations controlling the use of land as adopted
by the City’s Planning Commission and City Council under this chapter.
§ 155.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible
for review and processing of all development applications and building permit
applications to ensure compliance with the standards of the Annexation Reserve
District. Building permit applications for interior work and exterior
maintenance (such as roofing, siding, windows and the like) are exempt from
this review.
   (B)   Zoning applications covered. Certain applications of this zoning
district require study and action by the Planning Commission. These include
proposed conditional use permits, interim use permits, variances, site plan
reviews, zoning map amendments, text amendments and appeals.
   (C)   Cost recovery.
      (1)   Purpose. The costs to the City for receiving, analyzing,
processing, hearing and final processing of requests for changes, modifications
or special consideration under this chapter such as requests for an amendment
(map or text), site plan review, conditional use permits, interim use permits
and variances are considered to be unique to the applicant requesting the
consideration, and it is the intent of this chapter to provide that all costs
of the City occasioned by the requests shall be borne by the applicant. Actual
costs shall include all engineering, legal, planning or other consultant fees
or costs paid by the City for other consultants for expert review of a
development application.
      (2)   Fees. The following fees are established in accordance with §
34.01 of this code of ordinances and listed under the following sections: Sign
Permit, Consultation Fees and Development/Zoning/Building Review Fees.
   (D)   Site plan review.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this division (D) is to establish a formal
site plan review procedure and provide regulations pertaining to the
enforcement of site design and construction standards consistent with the
requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Site plan review process.
         (a)   Timeline. Pursuant to M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended,
supplemented or replaced from time to time, an application shall be approved or
denied within 60 days from the date of its official and complete submission
unless extended by the Planning Commission in accordance with state statutes or
a time waiver is granted in writing by the applicant.
         (b)   Building permits. The Building Official shall approve all plans
prior to the issuance of any building permit.
         (c)   Presentation of the application. The applicant or a
representative of the applicant shall appear before the Planning Commission in
order to present the case for the application and to answer questions
concerning the request. Failure of the applicant or a representative of the
applicant to appear at the Planning Commission may constitute grounds for
rejection of the application.
      (3)   Plans required. In order to evaluate compliance with building
performance standards, five copies and one electronic file of the following
plans and/or specifications, shall be submitted in fulfillment of the
requirements of this chapter. Plans to be submitted shall be to scale and shall
include:
         (a)   Topographic map prepared by a licensed surveyor with: contours
at one-foot intervals; property boundaries and legal description; all on-site
improvements shown; adjacent streets with curb lines and spot elevations at top
of curb (or edge of pavement if no curb); existing utilities and service
connections; trees over six inches in diameter identified or tree lines if
grouped; existing telephone, gas, electric and cable utilities identified as
overhead or underground;
         (b)   Proposed grading, drainage and erosion control plan with: all
proposed improvements; proposed contours; proposed drainage system plan;
proposed erosion control facilities. Drainage system plan design objective
should be to provide controls such that post-development runoff does not exceed
predevelopment runoff. Plans and specifications shall be prepared by an
architect or engineer, as appropriate, licensed to practice in the state;
         (c)   Landscape plans shall be required in order to determine
compliance with the §
155.10 of this chapter. All landscape plans submitted for approval shall
contain or have attached thereto the following information:
            1.   The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed
structures, parking lots and drives, roadways and rights-of-way, sidewalks,
bicycle paths, ground signs, lighting, refuse disposal areas, bicycle parking
areas, fences, freestanding electrical equipment, tot lots and other
recreational facilities and other freestanding structural features;
            2.   The location, quantity, size and name, both botanical and
common names, of all proposed planting materials;
            3.   Existing and proposed grading of the site, including proposed
berms, indicating contours, at one-foot intervals;
            4.   Specification of the type and boundaries of all proposed
ground cover;
            5.   Irrigation plan, if proposed;
            6.   Elevations, cross-sections of fences, and other details as
determined necessary by the Zoning Administrator; and
            7.   Location, size and name of existing trees, if any, and any
unique or special areas of existing vegetation.
         (d)   Building plans shall be to scale, to include: interior floor
layout and usage; UBC (State Building Code) occupancy group; exterior elevation
renderings identifying exterior materials and all architectural features. Plans
and specifications shall be prepared by an architect or engineer, as
appropriate, licensed to practice in the state;
         (e)   A signage plan shall be submitted per §
155.10 of this chapter;
         (f)   Exterior lighting plan to be prepared by a licensed electrical
engineer or electrician, as appropriate;
         (g)   Geotechnical investigation (if required by the Zoning
Administrator); and
         (h)   Copies of soils reports shall accompany the plans, if
applicable.
      (4)   Plan agreements. All site and construction plans officially
submitted shall be treated as a formal agreement between the owner/developer,
building contractor and the Planning Commission. Once approved, no changes,
modifications or alterations shall be made to any site plan detail, standard or
specification without prior submission of a plan modification request to the
Building Official and the Zoning Administrator for review and approval.
      (5)   Enforcement. The Building Official shall have the authority to
order the stopping of any and all site improvement activities, when and where a
violation of the provisions of this section has been officially documented by
the Building Official, or the Zoning Administrator.
      (6)   Lapse of approval. Unless otherwise specified by the Zoning
Administrator or the Planning Commission as may be applicable, the site plan
approval shall become null and void one year after the date of approval, unless
the property owner or applicant has substantially started the construction of
any building, structure, addition or alteration, or use requested as part of
the approved plan. The property owner or applicant shall have the right to
submit an application for time extension in accordance with this section.
      (7)   Building Code. The review and approval of site improvements
pursuant to the requirements of Bridgewater Township adopted building and fire
codes shall be in addition to the site plan review process established under
this section. The site plan approval process does not imply compliance with the
requirements of the Building and Fire Codes.
   (E)   Conditional use permits, interim use permits, variances and
amendments.
      (1)   Process. An application for a conditional use permit, interim use
permit, variance or zoning text or map amendment shall be processed in
accordance with the following procedure.
         (a)   Timeline. Pursuant to M.S. § 15.99, as ir may be amended,
supplemented or replaced from time to time, an application shall be approved or
denied within 60 days from the date of its official and complete submission
unless extended by the Planning Commission in accordance with state statutes or
a time waiver is granted in writing by the applicant.
         (b)   Application. Applications shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator on an official form, accompanied by a fee as established by this
chapter. The application shall also be accompanied by detailed written and
graphic materials fully explaining the proposed request and a list of property
owners located with 350 feet of the subject property. The number of copies to
be provided and any additional data shall be determined by the Zoning
Administrator. Applications must be complete before they are accepted. A
complete application must include the following information and steps:
            1.   A completed application form(s) relating to the request signed
by the property owner and applicant(s), if different than the property owner;
            2.   All supporting information required by this section and/or
outlined in all pertaining sections of this chapter and application documents
included with the application forms;
            3.   Payment of all fees associated with the applicable
applications(s);
            4.   A pre-application meeting with the Zoning Administrator to
review appropriate application procedures and requirements is strongly
encouraged;
            5.   An application will be deemed complete unless the Zoning
Administrator sends notice within 15 business days of submission of the
application indicating that it is not complete and indicating what information
is missing; and
            6.   Upon receipt of a complete application, the request will be
scheduled for action by the Planning Commission.
         (c)   Public hearing required. A public hearing is required for all
zoning text or map amendments, conditional use permits, interim use permits,
variance requests or appeals.
         (d)   Notice of hearing. After receipt of a complete application, the
Zoning Administrator shall set a date for the public hearing. Notice of the
hearing shall consist of a legal property description, a general description of
the property location and a description of the request to be published at least
ten days prior to the hearing in the official newspaper of the Planning
Commission. Written notices shall be mailed not less than ten days, nor more
than 30 days, prior to the hearing to all owners of property, according to the
records available within 350 feet of each parcel included in the request.
Failure to send, or a property owner to receive notice, shall not invalidate
any proceedings under this chapter; provided that, a bona fide attempt has been
made to comply with the requirements of this chapter.
         (e)   Presentation of the application. The applicant or a
representative of the applicant shall appear before the Planning Commission in
order to present the case for the application and to answer questions
concerning the request. Failure of the applicant or a representative of the
applicant to appear at the Planning Commission may constitute grounds for
denial of the application.
         (f)   Adverse effects. The Planning Commission shall consider possible
adverse effects of the proposed amendment, conditional use, interim use or
variance. Its judgment shall be based upon (but not limited to) the following
factors:
            1.   The proposed action shall be consistent with the policies and
plans in the Comprehensive Plan adopted for the ARD;
            2.   The proposed action shall be consistent with performance
standards as outlined in §
155.10 of this chapter;
            3.   The proposed use can be accommodated with existing public
services; and
            4.   Approval of a request shall require passage by a majority vote
of the Planning Commission. Any changes to the boundaries of land designated as
future industrial (see §
155.14 of this chapter) shall require approvals as described in the annexation
agreement.
         (g)   Notice to applicant. The Zoning Administrator shall notify the
applicant of the decision of the Planning Commission in writing, including any
relevant resolutions and findings.
         (h)   Filing of notice of action. A certified copy of any conditional
use permit, interim use permit or variance authorized under this chapter shall
be filed with the County Recorder and a copy of any action approved under this
chapter shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator. Filing shall be the
responsibility of the applicant.
         (i)   Reconsideration. Whenever an application has been considered and
denied by the Planning Commission, a similar application affecting
substantially the same property shall not be considered again by the Planning
Commission before the expiration of six months from the date of its denial and
any succeeding denials. However, a decision to reconsider the matter may be
made by not less than an affirmative vote of five members of the Planning
Commission.
         (j)   Automatic expiration. Unless otherwise specified by the Planning
Commission at the time it is authorized, a conditional use permit, interim use
permit or variance approval shall be null and void and expire if the applicant
fails to implement the approval and fulfill each and every condition attached
thereto within one year from the date of its authorization.
         (k)   Building permits required. No person, firm or corporation shall
construct, erect, alter, demolish or move any building or structure or parts
thereof within the ARD without first securing a building permit from
Bridgewater Township. No building permit shall be issued by the Building
Official for construction of a new building within the ARD prior to review and
approval of the Zoning Administrator to ensure compliance with this chapter and
the Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   Site improvement performance agreement. Upon approval of a
conditional use permit, interim use permit, site plan review and/or variance,
the Planning Commission may require the applicant to enter into a performance
agreement prior to the issuing of building permits or initiation of work on the
proposed improvements or development. The agreement shall guarantee conformance
and compliance with the conditions of the approval and this chapter. The
performance agreement shall be prepared and approved by the attorney acting on
behalf of the Planning Commission and shall include, without limitation, the
following terms and conditions.
         (a)   Performance security. The applicant shall be required to provide
financial security to assure compliance with the agreement and conditions of
approval. The security shall be in the form of cash escrow or irrevocable
letter of credit. The security shall be in an amount determined by the Zoning
Administrator or Building Official under the direction and approval of the
Planning Commission, to cover the estimated costs of labor and materials for
the proposed improvements or development.
         (b)   Security release. The Planning Commission shall hold the
financial security until the proposed improvements or development are completed
and a certificate of occupancy indicating compliance with the application
approval and the Building Code has been issued by the Building Official.
         (c)   Security forfeiture. Failure of the applicant to comply with the
conditions of the application approval and/or of this chapter shall result in
the forfeiture of the security.
         (d)   Hold harmless and indemnification of the Planning Commission.
The applicant shall agree to indemnify and hold harmless the Planning
Commission, its agents, representatives and consultants against any and all
claims, demands, losses, damages and expenses (including attorney’s fees)
arising out of, related to or resulting from the applicant’s negligent or
intentional acts, or any violation of any safety law, regulation or code in the
implementation of the performance agreement, without any regard to any
inspection or review made or not made by the Planning Commission, its agents,
employees, representatives or consultants or failure to take any other prudent
precaution. In the event any Planning Commission agent or representative shall
come under the direct or indirect control of the applicant, or the Planning
Commission, upon failure of the applicant to comply with any conditions of the
approval, performs the conditions pursuant to the security or the terms and
conditions of the agreement, the applicant shall indemnify and hold harmless
the Planning Commission, its agents, representatives and consultants for its
own negligent or intentional acts in the performance of the applicant’s
required work under the permit.
      (3)   Amendments to zoning text or zoning map (rezoning).
         (a)   The City Council, Town Board or Planning Commission may initiate
a request to amend the text or the district boundaries of this chapter. Any
person owning real estate within the ARD may initiate a request to amend the
district boundaries or text of this chapter so as to affect the real estate. No
changes to the district boundaries shall be made without an amendment to the
annexation agreement.
         (b)   Text amendments shall be subject to review and comment by the
Bridgewater Township Town Board and final approval by the Dundas City Council.
         (c)   All applications to change the boundaries of any zoning district
shall include the following information:
            1.   The information requested on the zoning amendment form;
            2.   A statement explaining the reason for the requested change in
zoning;
            3.   A statement regarding the compatibility of the requested
change with the Comprehensive Plan; and
            4.   A map, plot plan or survey plot of the property or properties
to be rezoned which illustrates the location, dimensions, zoning, existing uses
and buildings located on adjacent properties within 350 feet.
         (d)   The Planning Commission shall not approve a petition to rezone
property unless findings are made that the petition is consistent with the
intent of the annexation agreement, Comprehensive Plan and that the new zoning
district permits uses that are consistent with the trend of development in the
area near the property to be rezoned.
         (e)   Zoning amendments shall not become effective until such time as
the Planning Commission approves an ordinance reflecting the amendment and it
is adopted by the City Council and published in the official newspaper.
      (4)   Conditional use permits.
         (a)   The conditional use permit application shall be accompanied by a
site plan which shall include the following information:
            1.   Location of all buildings on lots including both existing and
proposed structures;
            2.   Location and number of existing and proposed parking spaces;
            3.   Lot dimensions and area;
            4.   Existing and proposed setbacks of all buildings to be located
on the property in question; and
            5.   A legal description of property under consideration.
         (b)   In making its determination on a proposed conditional use, the
Planning Commission may consider the nature of the adjoining land or buildings,
the effect upon traffic into and from the premises and any other factor(s) the
Planning Commission deems necessary in its consideration for determining the
effect of the use on the general welfare, public health and safety.
         (c)   1.   Granted conditional use permits shall become void if the
applicant does not proceed substantially on the work within six months, if
applicable. To proceed substantially means to make visible improvement to the
property. One or more extensions for not more than six months each may be
granted by the Planning Commission for good cause.
            2.   If the land does not conform to the conditions of the permit,
the conditional use permit may be revoked after notice to the applicant of a
public hearing for the intended revocation and passage of a resolution by the
Planning Commission to that effect.
      (5)   Interim use permits.
         (a)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent of allowing interim
uses is:
            1.   To allow a use for a temporary period of time until a
permanent location is obtained or while the permanent location is under
construction;
            2.   To allow a use that is presently judged acceptable by the
City’s Planning Commission, but that with anticipated development or
redevelopment, will not be acceptable in the future or may be replaced in the
future by a permitted or conditional use allowed within the district; and
            3.   To allow a use which is reflective of anticipated long-range
change to an area and which is in compliance with the Comprehensive Plan;
provided that, the use maintains harmony and compatibility with surrounding
uses and is in keeping with the general character of existing uses and
development.
         (b)   Criteria. The Planning Commission shall consider possible
effects of the proposed interim use. Its judgment shall be based upon, but not
limited to, consistency with the Comprehensive Plan for the ARD and the factors
outlined herein.
         (c)   General performance standards. As may be applicable, the
evaluation of any proposed interim use permit request shall be subject to and
include, without limitation:
            1.   The date or event that will terminate the use shall be
identified with certainty;
            2.   The use is allowed as an interim use in the Annexation Reserve
District;
            3.   The use shall not impose additional unreasonable costs on the
public; and
            4.   The user agrees to conditions that the Planning Commission
deems appropriate for permission of the use.
         (d)   Termination. An interim use shall terminate upon the happening
of any of the following events, whichever occurs first:
            1.   Upon the date or event stated in the permit;
            2.   Upon violation of any condition under which the permit was
issued;
            3.   Upon change in this chapter that renders the use non-
conforming;
            4.   The redevelopment of the use and property upon which it is
located to a permitted or conditional use as allowed within the respective
zoning district; and
            5.   Annexation of the land to the City.
         (e)   Revocation. If an approved interim use permit is in violation
the conditions of permit approval, the Planning Commission may revoke the
interim use permit. The Planning Commission shall conduct a public hearing to
consider the revocation of an interim use permit. Notifications of the hearings
shall be distributed and published according to division (E)(1)(d) above.
      (6)   Variances.
         (a)   Establishment of Board of Adjustment. The Planning Commission is
hereby established as the Board of Adjustment and vested with the authority as
is provided by state statutes. The findings and rulings of the Board of
Adjustment shall be final.
         (b)   Purpose. A request for variance from the literal provisions of
this chapter may be made in instances where strict enforcement would cause
undue hardship to the property owner, due to the physically unique
characteristics of the property beyond the property owner’s control. No
variance or modification of the uses permitted within a district shall be
allowed, except as an official amendment to this chapter. Economic
considerations alone shall not constitute a hardship.
         (c)   Findings of fact. In acting upon the request for a variance the
Planning Commission shall make the following findings of fact:
            1.   The proposed variance will not impair an adequate supply of
light and air to adjacent property;
            2.   The proposed variance will not unreasonably increase the
congestion in the public street;
            3.   The proposed variance will not unreasonably diminish or impair
established property values within the neighborhood, or in any other way be
contrary to the intent of this chapter;
            4.   The applicant’s property has unique physical characteristics
that are not generally similar to other properties in the same zoning district;
and
            5.   The applicant will experience undue hardship, other than
economic hardship, if the variance is not approved.
         (d)   Lapse of variance. Whenever within one year following the
granting of a variance or appeal, the work as permitted has not been completed
or substantially completed, then the variance or appeal shall become null and
void.
   (F)   Non-conforming buildings, structures and uses.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this division (F) is to provide for the
regulation of non-conforming buildings, structures and uses and to specify
those requirements, circumstances and conditions under which non-conforming
buildings, structures and uses will be operated and maintained. It is the
intent of this division (F) that all non-conforming uses shall be eventually
brought into conformity.
      (2)   General provisions.
         (a)   Any structure or use lawfully existing upon the effective date
of this chapter may be continued through repair, replacement, restoration,
maintenance or improvement at the size and in the same manner of operation
existing upon the date. Furthermore, an expansion of the non-conformity may be
permitted by the Board of Adjustment; provided, reasonable regulations to
prevent and abate nuisances and to protect the public health, welfare and
safety are included as conditions of the expansion.
         (b)   If a non-conforming building, structure or use is destroyed to
the extent of more than 50% of its estimated market value, as indicated in the
records of the County Assessor at the time of damage, and no building permit
has been applied for within 180 days of when the property is damaged, then the
building and the land on which the building was located shall be subject to all
the regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which it is
located. If the damage is less than 50%, the building may be restored to its
former condition, if it is reconstructed within 12 months after the date of the
damage.
         (c)   Normal maintenance of a building or other structure containing
or relating to a lawful non-conforming use is permitted, as long as such
repairs or alterations do not physically extend or intensify the non-conforming
use.
         (d)   In the event that a non-conforming use of any building or
building and land is discontinued for a period of one year, the use of the same
shall conform thereafter to the uses permitted in the district in which it is
located.
      (3)   Non-conforming uses in the floodplain. A structure or the use of a
structure or premises which was lawful before the passage or amendment of this
chapter, but which is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter may
be continued, subject to the following conditions.
         (a)   No such use shall be expanded, changed, enlarged or altered in a
way which increases its non-conformity.
         (b)   Any alteration or addition to a non-conforming structure or non-
conforming use which would result in increasing the flood damage potential of
that structure or use shall be protected to the regulatory flood protection
elevation in accordance with any of the elevation on fill or flood-proofing
techniques (i.e., FP-1 through FP-4 flood-proofing classifications) allowable
in the state’s Building Code, except as further restricted in the regulations
of the Floodplain Overlay District.
         (c)   A municipality shall regulate the use of non-conforming lots of
record and the repair, replacement, maintenance, improvement or expansion of
non-conforming uses and structures and setbacks according to the following:
            1.   A non-conforming single lot of record located within a
shoreland area may be allowed as a building site without variances from lot
size requirements; provided that:
               a.   All structure and septic system setback distance
requirements can be met;
               b.   A Type 1 sewage treatment system consistent with Minn.
Rules Ch. 7080 can be installed or the lot is connected to a public sewer; and
               c.   The impervious surface coverage does not exceed 25% of the
lot.
            2.   In a group of two or more contiguous lots of record under a
common ownership, an individual lot must be considered as a separate parcel of
land for the purpose of sale or development, if it meets the following
requirements:
               a.   The lot must be at least 66% of the dimensional standard
for lot width and lot size for the shoreland classification consistent with
Minn. Rules Ch. 6120;
               b.   The lot must be connected to a public sewer, if available,
or must be suitable for installation of a Type 1 sewage treatment system
consistent with Minn. Rules Ch. 7080 and local government controls;
               c.   Impervious surface coverage must not exceed 25% of each
lot; and
               d.   Development of the lot must be consistent with the adopted
Comprehensive Plan.
            3.   If a lot does not meet the requirements of division (F)(3)
(c)2. above, it must be combined with one or more contiguous lots so they equal
one or more conforming lots as much as possible. Notwithstanding, contiguous
non-conforming lots of record in shoreland areas under a common ownership must
be able to be sold or purchased individually if each lot contained a habitable
residential dwelling at the time the lots came under common ownership and the
lots are suitable for, or served by, a sewage treatment system consistent with
the requirements of M.S. § 115.55 and Minn. Rules Ch. 7080 or connected to a
public sewer.
            4.   In evaluation of all variances, zoning and building permit
applications, or conditional use requests, the zoning authority shall require
the property owner to address, when appropriate, storm water runoff management,
reducing impervious surfaces, increasing setbacks, restoration of wetlands,
vegetative buffers, sewage treatment and water supply capabilities and other
conservation-designed actions.
            5.   A portion of a conforming lot may be separated from an
existing parcel as long as the remainder of the existing parcel meets the lot
size and sewage treatment requirements of the zoning district for a new lot and
the created parcel is combined with an adjacent parcel.
         (d)   If any non-conforming use is discontinued for 12 consecutive
months, any future use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
The Assessor shall notify the Zoning Administrator in writing of instances of
non-conforming uses which have been discontinued for a period of 12 months.
         (e)   If a non-conforming building, structure, or use is destroyed to
the extent of more than 50% of its estimated market value, as indicated in the
records of the County Assessor at the time of damage, and no building permit
has been applied for within 180 days of when the property is damaged, then the
building and the land on which the building was located shall be subject to all
the regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which it is
located. If the damage is less than 50%, the building may be restored to its
former condition, if it is reconstructed within 12 months after the date of the
damage.
      (4)   Non-conforming uses in the Cannon River Recreational District.
         (a)   Non-conforming uses shall not be intensified, enlarged or
expanded beyond the permitted or delineated boundaries of the use or activity.
No structural alteration, addition or repair to a non-conforming structure
shall exceed 50% of the assessed value of that structure.
         (b)   Non-conforming sanitary systems inconsistent with the minimum
performance standards of the state’s Pollution Control Agency and the state’s
Department of Health shall be brought into conformity or discontinued within
five years of the date of enactment of this chapter.
         (c)   Substandard structures in existence prior to the effective date
of enactment of this chapter that do not meet the minimum setbacks or other
dimensional requirements of this chapter are substandard structures. All
substandard structures shall be allowed to continue; except that, any
structural alteration or addition to a substandard structure that will increase
the substandard dimensions shall not be allowed.
         (d)   Substandard lots of record in the office of the County Register
of Deeds (or Registrar of Titles) prior to the date of enactment of this
chapter which do not meet the lot size requirements of §
155.07(B) of this chapter may be allowed as building sites; provided:
            1.   Such use is permitted in the zoning district;
            2.   The lot is in separate ownership from abutting lands; and
            3.   All other sanitary and dimensional requirements of this
chapter are complied with insofar as practical.
   (G)   Enforcement. This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the
Zoning Administrator. It shall be unlawful to violate a provision of this
chapter. The Zoning Administrator may institute in the name of the Planning
Commission appropriate actions or proceedings against a violator.
      (1)   Enforcement procedure. For the enforcement of the provisions of
this chapter, the first zoning violation notice shall be sent by regular mail,
and the second notice will be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested
to the property owner of which the violation is taking place. All zoning
violation notices shall contain the following information:
         (a)   A description of the violation that is taking place;
         (b)   A picture (if possible) of the violation that is taking place;
         (c)   Location and/or address of the property at which the violation
is taking place;
         (d)   Identification of the section of this chapter that is being
violated;
         (e)   Date the violation was discovered;
         (f)   Steps necessary to correct the violation; and
         (g)   Deadline in which the violation must be corrected, which shall
be 30 days unless an extension is granted by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Correction of the zoning violation. Upon correction of the
violation in the manner stipulated by the zoning violation notice at any point
during this enforcement process, the Zoning Administrator shall take no further
enforcement activity with respect to the specific violation incident.
      (3)   Failure to correct zoning violation; enforcement remedies. Failure
to correct the zoning violation, as evidenced by clear documentation of
communication with the landowner and the prior approval of the Planning
Commission, shall result in the Zoning Administrator, on behalf of the Planning
Commission, pursuing enforcement action following notification to the property
owner. The Zoning Administrator, on behalf of the Planning Commission, shall
have the authority to carry out the following enforcement remedies.
         (a)   Withhold permits. The Zoning Administrator, on behalf of the
Planning Commission, shall have the authority to withhold or deny any and all
permits or approvals under this chapter until the violation is corrected to the
satisfaction of the Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   Stop work order. The Zoning Administrator shall have the
authority to issue a stop work order on the property in violation.
         (c)   Abatement. The Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to
require that the violation be abated by completely removing or stopping the
item or use which has been identified in the zoning violation notice. Abatement
action shall not proceed until after a hearing before the Planning Commission.
         (d)   Civil and criminal remedies. This chapter may be enforced by
appropriate civil action including injunctive and other equitable processes to
enforce the provisions of this chapter and, at the discretion of the civil
court, shall recover reasonable court costs and attorney’s fees that are
incurred due to the enforcement of the subject violation. Any person who
violates any provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined not more than the maximum penalty for a misdemeanor prescribed under
state law.
         (e)   Cumulative remedies. The powers and remedies of this chapter
shall not be individually limited and are not exclusive. The powers and
remedies of this chapter are cumulative and all power and remedies may apply
and any other remedies allowed under state law. Failure to exercise any remedy
shall not be a waiver of that remedy.
   (H)   Validity. Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the decision shall not
affect the validity of the chapter as a whole or any part thereof other than
the part so declared to be invalid.
§ 155.05 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Annexation Reserve District (ARD). The ARD is intended to develop over
time as areas within the ARD are annexed into the City. As such, permitted uses
in the chart in the following section are intended to allow a transition of
current uses to the future desired uses as established within the annexation
agreement.
   (B)   Overlay districts. The following overlay districts are established for
the ARD:
      (1)   F, Floodplain Overlay District;
      (2)   WS, Wild and Scenic River District; and
      (3)   S, Shorelands District.
   (C)   Consistency with comprehensive plan and annexation agreement.
      (1)   The zoning districts and uses in this chapter and the delineation
of zoning boundaries on the zoning map shall be consistent with the goals,
policies and objectives of the applicable sections of the Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   The future land uses for the land included in the ARD shall be as
shown on the future land use map within the City’s Comprehensive Plan and
attached to this chapter as §
155.14.
   (D)   Establishment of official zoning map. The zoning districts established
by this chapter correspond to the future land uses shown on the future land
uses map, attached to this chapter as §
155.14, which is hereby incorporated as part of this chapter as the zoning map.
      (1)   Corrections and updates shall be recorded on such maps by the
Zoning Administrator within 30 days after the official adoption of the zoning
amendment by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   The Floodplain Districts are based on the data contained within the
Flood Insurance Study for the county prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Administration (FEMA) and the Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) on
file in the office of the Zoning Administrator. The Flood Insurance Study and
the most recent Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) provided by FEMA are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
      (3)   The Wild and Scenic River Overlay Districts are from the Cannon
River Management Maps, dated 1-11-1980 and produced as part of the Cannon River
Management Study and final rule (Minn. Rules part 6105.1680) and these maps are
hereby incorporated by reference as part of this chapter.
      (4)   The official zoning map shall be signed by the Chairperson of the
Planning Commission and a certified copy filed with the County Recorder.
      (5)   Any unauthorized change of a zoning boundary or designation by any
person or persons shall be considered a violation of this chapter.
   (E)   District boundaries. Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of
districts as shown on the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
      (1)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets, rivers, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow the
centerlines.
      (2)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following the lot lines.
      (3)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following established
municipal limits and county borders shall be construed as following the lines.
      (4)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed
to be midway between the main tracks.
      (5)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following sections, half
sections, quarter sections, eighth sections and government lots shall be
construed to follow the lines.
      (6)    Where physical features, such as floodplains, are at variance with
those shown on the official zoning map, or in other circumstances not covered
by divisions (E)(1) through (E)(5) above, the Zoning Administrator shall
interpret the boundary.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 4-12-2021)
§ 155.06 USE CHART.
   The following chart describes permitted, accessory, conditional and interim
uses in the Annexation Reserve District.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Uses permitted with a “P” are permitted as of right in
the district designated; provided, the use complies with all other applicable
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Conditional uses. Uses permitted with a “C” are allowed as a
conditional use in the district designated; provided, the property owner has
obtained a conditional use permit.
   (C)   Interim uses. Uses permitted with a “I” are allowed as an interim use
in the district designated; provided, the property owner has obtained an
interim use permit.
   (D)   Prohibited uses. Uses not listed are prohibited.
   (E)   Use chart. Chart follows on next page.
        District     Type
Uses R = Residential P = Permitted      Standards*
     C = Commercial  C= Conditional Use
     I = Industrial  I = Interim Use
                                     District     Type
Uses                              R = Residential P = Permitted      Standards*
                                  C = Commercial  C= Conditional Use
                                  I = Industrial  I = Interim Use
Agricultural and Related Uses
Commercial storage in existing    R, C, I         I                  X
agricultural building
Farm buildings                    R, C, I         P
Farm production                   R, C, I         P                  X
Feedlot, animal manure composting R, C, I         I                  X
site, aquaculture
Forest and game management areas  R, C, I         P
General repair and machinery      R, C, I         I                  X
setup
Greenhouse and nursery sales      R, C, I         I                  X
Commercial Recreation
Golf course, country club,        R, C, I         C                  X
driving range
Organized motor sports: off-road  C, I            I                  X
only
Paintball course                  C, I            I                  X
Riding and boarding stable        R, C, I         C                  X
Ski slope, snowboarding, tubing   C               C                  X
or sledding hills: private
Civic, Educational, Institutional
Campground (public)               C               C                  X
Cemetery                          C               C
Parks and recreation areas,       R, C, I         P
walking and biking trails
Religious institution             C, R            C                  X
School, public or private         C, R            C                  X
Commercial and Industrial
Bed and breakfast facility        C               I                  X
Cabinet, carpentry shops          I               I                  X
Contractor’s office             C, I            I                  X
Contractor’s yard w. outdoor    I               I                  X
storage
Kennel, commercial                C, I            C                  X
Small appliance repair            C, I            I                  X
Temporary asphalt plant or
highway construction yard and     I               I                  X
equipment placement
Upholstering, furniture repair or C, I            I                  X
restoration
Veterinary clinic                 C, I            I                  X
Public Service and Utility Uses
Communications tower              R, C, I         C                  X
Essential public service towers   R, C, I         P                  X
and transmission lines
Essential public service without  R, C, I         P                  X
towers and transmission lines
Government buildings              C, I            P
Wind energy generation facilities R, C, I         C                  X
and towers 40 KW or greater
Residential and Related Uses
Facility for supervised
residential program (up to 6      R, C, I         P
residents)
Single-family residential         R, C, I         P                  X
Structures Accessory to Permitted Uses
Antennas and satellite dishes     R, C, I         P
Detached garages, storage sheds,  R, C, I         P                  X
outbuildings
Farm drainage systems, flood
control and watershed structures, R, C, I         P                  X
erosion control structures
Farm storage, containerized or
bulk for onsite and under 1,000   R, C, I         P
gallons
Other structures typically
incidental and clearly            R, C, I         P
subordinate to permitted uses
Private swimming pool, tennis
court, recreational facilities    R, C, I         P
accessory to a dwelling
Seasonal roadside stands for
sales of farm products primarily  R, C, I         I                  X
produced on the premises
Signs meeting the chapter         R, C, I         P                  X
standards
Solar equipment                   R, C, I         P                  X
Temporary farm dwelling (mobile   R, C, I         I                  X
home)
Wind generation facilities and
towers, less than 40 KW for       R, C, I         P                  X
household or business use
Uses Accessory and Temporary to Permitted Uses
Domestic pets, up to 6 animals    R, C, I         P
Home occupation, permitted        R, C, I         P                  X
Home occupation, interim          R, C, I         I                  X
Licensed day care for up to 12    R, C, I         P
children
Other temporary uses: yard sales, R, C, I         P                  X
sale of one vehicle
Room and board facility, max 2    R, C, I         I                  X
persons
NOTES TO TABLE:
*Specific standards for this use are included in this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 4-12-2021)
§ 155.07 HEIGHT, YARD AND LOT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations.
      (1)   There shall be a height limitation of 35 feet on all structures
within the ARD, unless otherwise provided herein.
      (2)   Where the average slope of a lot is greater than a one-foot rise or
fall in seven feet of horizontal distance from the established road elevation
at the property line, an allowance of one story may be added to the number of
stories permitted in the district in which the lot is situated provided the
additional story is situated on the downhill side of the building.
      (3)   Except in the Wild and Scenic River District, height limitations
set for elsewhere in this chapter may be increased with no limitation when
applied to the following structures:
         (a)   Public monuments;
         (b)   Flag poles;
         (c)   Cooling towers;
         (d)   Grain elevators, farm drying and grain storage facilities;
         (e)   Church spires, belfries or domes which do not contain usable
space;
         (f)   Water towers;
         (g)   Chimneys or smokestacks;
         (h)   Forest fire watch towers;
         (i)   Silos;
         (j)   Power poles or other poles or towers upon which transmission
lines are strung; and
         (k)   Radio or television transmitting towers.
   (B)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot area for a residential lot.
         (a)   The minimum lot size for a residential lot in the Annexation
Reserve District is 35 acres.
         (b)   A parcel with a dwelling existing as of the date of adoption of
this chapter may be reduced in size to a lot of no less than two and one-half
acres; provided that, a conservation easement is recorded for the residual
parcel prohibiting further development or subdivision. The terms of this
conservation easement shall be those stated in the section of development
agreements and recording of restrictions under the transfer of development
rights regulations; except that, the easement may be terminated by the county
at such time as the property is annexed by the adjacent municipality.
      (2)   Minimum lot area, all other uses. The minimum lot size for all
other uses shall be two and one-half acres unless otherwise permitted under an
approved conditional use permit.
      (3)   Minimum lot width. The minimum lot width shall be 250 feet.
      (4)   Minimum front yard setbacks. The minimum front yard setbacks shall
be measured from the centerline of the road or from the property line
(whichever is greater), as follows:
         (a)   State highway: 150 feet to centerline of roadway or 100 feet
from front property line, whichever is greater; and
         (b)   County road or township road: 133 feet to centerline of roadway
or 100 feet from front property line, whichever is greater.
      (5)   Minimum side yard setback. The minimum side yard setback is 20
feet, with the exception of buildings containing livestock, which shall have a
minimum setback of 100 feet.
      (6)   Minimum rear yard setback. The minimum rear yard setbacks shall be
as follows:
         (a)   Principal buildings: 100 feet;
         (b)   Accessory buildings: 20 feet; and
         (c)   Livestock buildings: 70 feet.
§ 155.08 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum requirements.
      (1)   Permits and certificates. The following permits and certificates
are required in the ARD for land use and construction activities and may be
issued by the Zoning Administrator or Building Official.
         (a)   Building permits. The following provisions shall apply to the
issuance of building permits in the ARD:
            1.   A building permit shall be obtained prior to erecting,
installing, altering, converting, removing or demolishing any building or
structure or part thereof;
            2.   The following structures shall be exempt from the requirement
of a building permit, but must meet minimum zoning requirements:
               a.   Storage buildings 120 square feet or less in size if
located outside the Shoreland and Floodplain Districts; and
               b.   Agricultural structures that obtain an agricultural
structures permit as provided below.
            3.   Before a building permit for construction of a new residence,
addition or remodeling that results in increased water usage (including, but
not limited to, adding a bedroom or bathroom) is issued, the provisions of the
sewage and wastewater treatment ordinance shall be met. Before a building
permit for any other activity is issued with a shoreland area, Shoreland
District or Floodplain District, the applicant must provide evidence of a
conforming sewage treatment system or evidence that one will be provided if the
building permit is issued;
            4.   A permit shall not be issued where a proposed setback does not
comply with the official map for future road construction. Structure setbacks
in officially mapped roadway corridors shall be equal to setback requirements
for existing roads unless otherwise specified through the official mapping
process;
            5.   Activities undertaken subject to a building permit shall
conform to the most current state building code as adopted by Bridgewater
Township; and
            6.   A site plan conforming to the provisions of this section shall
be submitted with all building permit applications.
         (b)   Agricultural structure permit. An agricultural structure permit
shall be obtained for the construction of new agricultural buildings and
structures or for additions to the structures and buildings. Agricultural
structure permits shall be issued by the Building Official. Buildings and
structures must meet the following criteria to be defined as an agricultural
building or structure for the purposes of this provision:
            1.   The building or structure must be on a parcel of land at least
ten acres in size and used exclusively for storage of agricultural goods or
equipment; or
            2.   The building or structure must be used exclusively to house
animals.
         (c)   Floodplain District permit. In the Floodplain District, a permit
shall be obtained prior to the use or change of use of a building, structure or
land, prior to the change or extension of a non-conforming use, and prior to
excavation or the placement of an obstruction within the floodplain.
         (d)   Administrative review. Administrative review by the Zoning
Administrator shall be required prior to issuance of a building permit. This
review will ensure that the parcel is a buildable lot and that the use of land
conforms to the requirements of this chapter. Failure to obtain an
administrative review for any use, arrangement or construction shall be deemed
a violation of this chapter.
         (e)   Certificate of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall be
issued by the Building Official in accordance with the state’s Building Code.
      (2)   Dwelling units prohibited.
         (a)   Structures or portions of structures in which dwelling units are
prohibited. No cellar, garage or basement with unfinished structure above
(excluding energy efficient subterranean dwellings), or accessory building
shall, at any time, be used as a dwelling unit or residence, except as
hereinafter provided.
         (b)   A camper or travel trailer of the type generally used
temporarily as living quarters during the hunting, fishing or vacation season
and duly licensed and registered under the laws of the state may be parked on
residential property; provided, however, that, the camper or travel trailer
shall not while so parked be used as a permanent human dwelling place, living
abode or living quarters. The camper or travel trailer must be placed in a
location that meets the setback standards of the underlying zoning district.
      (3)   Camper or trailer for non-resident, guest or visitor. No more than
one camper or travel trailer of the type described in division (A)(2) above and
owned by a non-resident, guest or visitor, may be parked or occupied by the
guest or visitor on property on which a permanent dwelling unit is located for
a period not to exceed 120 days in the same calendar year while visiting the
property. The camper or travel trailer must be placed in a location that meets
the setback standards of the underlying zoning district.
      (4)   Temporary dwelling during home construction. The Zoning
Administrator may, upon application, grant a temporary permit for the use of a
manufactured home or similar portable unit for temporary residential purposes
within the ARD in conjunction with a home construction project that is
underway; provided, however, that, a duly authorized and valid land use permit
(and/or building permit) shall have been approved prior to the application for
the temporary permit and subject to the following.
         (a)   The applicant for the temporary trailer permit shall file an
application with the Zoning Administrator setting forth the legal description
of the land on which the trailer is to be located, together with a copy of the
land use permit and/or building permit for the home to be constructed on the
property.
         (b)   The term of the trailer permit shall not exceed six months or
upon completion of construction of the residential home in question, whichever
comes first.
         (c)   The temporary dwelling must be placed in a location that meets
the setback standards of the underlying zoning district.
      (5)   Sewer and water systems.
         (a)   All on-site sewage disposal facilities shall be required to
comply with the requirements for regulating sewage disposal systems established
in Minn. Rules Ch. 7080. In addition, the standards and regulations of the
county’s Sewage and Wastewater Treatment Ordinance, dated 8-28-2001, are hereby
adopted by reference.
         (b)   Private wells shall be so located and constructed that they will
not be contaminated by any existing or future sewage disposal systems. They
shall also be constructed to minimize the possible contamination from all
possible external sources within the geological strata surrounding the well.
Private wells shall be located in a manner to be free from flooding and the top
shall be so constructed and located as to be above all possible sources of
pollution. Wells already existing in areas subject to flooding shall be flood-
proofed.
      (6)   Preservation of survey monuments. All international, federal,
state, county and other official monuments, benchmarks, triangulation points
and stations shall be preserved in their precise location. It shall be the
responsibility of the applicant to ensure that these markers are maintained in
good condition during and following construction and development.
      (7)   Pre-inspections required. A pre-inspection by the Zoning
Administrator is required for any buildings, structures or dwellings that are
to be moved into the ARD. Photographs will be required. Any cost incurred for
inspection shall be borne by the applicant.
      (8)   Survey required. Applications for a building permit on parcels of
five acres or less must be accompanied by a survey.
      (9)   Compliance with the state’s Wetland Act. Applications made under
this chapter shall be in compliance with the state’s Wetland Conservation Act.
      (10)   Site suitability required. Land in all districts shall be suited
to the purpose for which it is to be used. Development shall not be allowed on
a parcel or lot it if is not suitable for the proposed use unless remediation
has been approved. Each lot created through subdivision must be suitable in its
natural state for the proposed use with minimal alteration. Suitability
analysis shall consider the following factors:
         (a)   Susceptibility to flooding and/or poor drainage;
         (b)   Existence of wetlands;
         (c)   Soil and rock formations with severe limitations for
development;
         (d)   Severe erosion potential;
         (e)   Slopes greater than 18%;
         (f)   Near-shore aquatic conditions unsuitable for water-based
recreation;
         (g)   Inadequate water supply or sewage treatment capabilities;
         (h)   Existence of endangered or threatened species;
         (i)   Existence of important fish and wildlife habitat;
         (j)   Presence of significant historic sites;
         (k)   Presence of woodlands and grasslands; and
         (l)   Any other feature of the natural land likely to be harmful to
the health, safety or welfare of future residents of the proposed subdivision
or of the ARD.
   (B)   Essential services. Essential services, as defined by this chapter,
may have an effect upon township, City, county and regional land uses, highway
location, park and recreation areas preservation of natural environmental
areas, lakes, streams and rivers. The proposed location of all essential
services in the ARD shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator prior to
commencement of any condemnation action or construction by the owner.
      (1)   Procedures for local distribution service. Any application for a
building permit or conditional use permit for essential services (i.e.,
services such as power, gas or fuel) for immediate local distribution to the
general public within the ARD shall follow the following procedure.
         (a)   The applicant shall file with the Zoning Administrator an
application for the permit accompanied by maps indicating the location,
alignment and type of service proposed.
         (b)   Following review of the application and accompanying date, the
Zoning Administrator may issue the permit after determining that the
application is acceptable and in the best interest of the ARD.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator may require in conjunction with the
issuance of the permit that:
            1.   The applicant submits as-built drawings of the essential
service after construction;
            2.   The applicant construct the essential service to take into
consideration contemplated widening, regrading or relocation of a town or
county highway or county state aid highway; and
            3.   The cost of moving the utilities for any public roadway
expansion shall be borne by the utility company.
      (2)   Procedure for large facilities. Transmission services (i.e.,
utility service such as high voltage (75 KV or greater), electrical power or
bulk gas or fuel) being transferred from station to station and not intended
for en route consumption shall follow the following procedure.
         (a)   The owner shall file an application for a building permit or
conditional use permit for essential services with the Zoning Administrator,
including maps indicating the location, alignment and type of service proposed
as well as an environmental assessment worksheet indicating areas of conflict
and solutions to the environmental conflicts as shall be required.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall forward the maps and data to the
Planning Commission along with its recommendations relating to the relationship
to urban growth, land uses, highways, environment, recreation and park areas.
         (c)   The Planning Commission shall consider the maps and accompanying
data and recommendations and shall approve, deny or request modifications to
the proposal.
         (d)   The Planning Commission shall act upon all applications within
60 days of receipt by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   Fees. A filing fee shall be charged for each application for
essential services with the amount of the application fee to be determined by
the Planning Commission and City Council.
   (C)   Lot and yard controls.
      (1)   Area regulations. No lot or parcel shall be reduced in size below
the minimum required for the proposed use in the zoning district where the lot
is located.
      (2)   Measurement of lot width. Lot width for the purpose of complying
with minimum lot width requirements shall be measured at the front building
setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard setbacks from roads. As measured from the edge
of the right-of-way, or planned right-of-way, structures shall be set back from
roadways according to the following:
         (a)   State highway: 150 feet to centerline of roadway or 100 feet
from front property line, whichever is greater;
         (b)   County road: 133 feet to the centerline of roadway or 100 feet
from front property line, whichever is greater; and
         (c)   Township road: 133 feet to the centerline of roadway or 100 feet
from front property line, whichever is greater.
      (4)   Encroachments into yards. The following encroachments into required
yards are permitted. Measurements must be taken from the nearest point of the
wall of a building to a lot line in question.
         (a)   Cornices, canopies or eaves may extend into the required front
yard a distance not exceeding four feet, six inches.
         (b)   In structures existing as of the date of adoption of this
chapter, the following encroachments are permitted:
            1.   Fire escapes may extend into the required front yard a
distance not exceeding four feet, six inches;
            2.   A landing place or uncovered porch may extend into the
required front yard to a distance not exceeding six feet, if the landing place
or porch has its floor no higher than the entrance floor of a building. An open
railing no higher than three feet, six inches may be placed around the landing
or porch;
            3.   A ramp for access to the dwelling by handicapped individuals;
            4.   The above-mentioned architectural features may also extend
into any side or rear yard to the same extent; except that, no porch, terrace
or outside stairway shall project into the required side yard distance; and
            5.   A wall, fence or hedge may occupy part of the required front,
side or rear yard.
         (c)   The required front yard of a corner lot shall not contain any
retaining wall or similar structure, fence or other structure, tree, shrub or
other growth that may cause danger to traffic on a private or public road by
obscuring the view.
   (D)   Accessory buildings and structures.
      (1)   Attached accessory buildings. If an accessory building is attached
to the main building, or within ten feet of the main building, it shall be made
structurally a part of the main building and shall comply in all respects with
the requirements of this chapter applicable to the main building.
      (2)   Detached accessory buildings. A detached accessory building shall
not be located in any required setbacks and shall be located at least ten feet
from the main building.
      (3)   In a platted residential subdivision.
         (a)   No accessory building in a residential platted subdivision shall
be located nearer the front lot line than the principal building on the lot.
         (b)   Accessory structures in a residential platted subdivision
related to a residential use shall be constructed of materials that are similar
in color to those used for the principal building and shall be constructed to
include at least three architectural features, such as overhangs, windows and
facade materials, that are similar to the principal building.
   (E)   Height regulations.
      (1)   There shall be a height limitation of 35 feet on all structures
within the ARD unless otherwise provided herein.
      (2)   Where the average slope of a lot is greater than a one-foot rise or
fall in seven feet of horizontal distance from the established road elevation
at the property line, an allowance of one story may be added to the number of
stories permitted in the district in which the lot is situated; provided, the
additional story is situated on the downhill side of the building.
   (F)   Rural business licensing. All existing and new businesses operating in
the ARD shall be licensed for the purpose of maintaining health, safety and
general welfare. The following provisions apply to rural business licensing.
      (1)   Permitted home occupations. Licensing requirements do not apply to
activities that meet the definition of permitted home occupations.
      (2)   Filing requirement. All business operations shall be required to
file. Business operations are broadly defined and include any commercial,
industrial, manufacturing, processing, mining, agriculturally-oriented
business, educational, charitable, service or hospitality activities regardless
of business organization type. Agricultural uses, as defined in this chapter,
are not subject to rural business licensing.
      (3)   When required. The owner of the land on which an existing business
operates shall be required to file a rural business licensing form with the
Zoning Administrator within 12 months from the date of adoption of this
chapter.
      (4)   New businesses. Business operations that begin after the adoption
of this chapter shall be required to file a rural business licensing form and
obtain all other permits required under this chapter.
      (5)   Business of record status. Businesses that file a complete rural
business licensing form shall qualify as a business of record and receive the
exemptions specified in the section under non-conforming that references
business of record exemptions.
      (6)   Information required. The rural business licensing form shall be
provided by the Zoning Administrator and shall require the following
information:
         (a)   Name, address and phone number of landowner;
         (b)   Name, address and phone number of business operator;
         (c)   Date of application;
         (d)   Type of business use and date the business began operations on
the property;
         (e)   Date business operations initially began;
         (f)   Structure the business occupies, including any outside storage;
         (g)   A site plan of the business uses and parking on the property in
relation to roads and other non-business structures;
         (h)   Location and information about the sewage and wastewater
practices;
         (i)   Types, amounts and location of storage of hazardous materials;
         (j)   Number of employees;
         (k)   Location and amount of off-street parking;
         (l)   Approximate vehicle trips generated per day, including
employees, shipping and deliveries; and
         (m)   Information about on-site signage.
      (7)   Purpose. Licensing requirements are for health, safety and general
welfare informational purposes. The Zoning Administrator will work to educate
business owners on current zoning, traffic control, materials handling and
other health and safety requirements and best management practices.
      (8)   Update. Information on the rural business license form shall be
updated annually by the business owner.
      (9)   Conformance to ordinance. New proposed businesses or licensed
businesses that propose a change in use or propose an addition or expansion
shall be required to conform to the provisions of this chapter.
      (10)   Failure to file. If an owner of land on which a business operates
fails to file a rural business license form, the business shall be subject to
all requirements of this chapter for rural businesses as if it were a newly
proposed business.
      (11)   Environmental standards. Registered businesses shall comply with
the environmental standards of this chapter within five years from the date of
enactment of this chapter.
   (G)   Driveway and road access and standards.
      (1)   Permit required. A permit shall be required for all new driveways
or changes in driveway use.
      (2)   Approval of access on county road. The location of direct access
for a driveway to a county road shall be approved by the county’s Highway
Engineer and Planning Director prior to any development of the property in
question. The following standards apply to driveways on county roads.
         (a)   Primary access shall be to the road of lesser classification.
         (b)   Primary access shall be kept to a minimum and shared when
possible.
         (c)   Closure of field accesses and existing driveways may be required
with a change to a more intensive use of property.
         (d)   The decision of the county’s Highway Engineer and Zoning
Administrator shall be final subject to appeal to the county’s Board of
Adjustment.
      (3)   Approval of access on township road. Access to township roads shall
be regulated by the Planning Commission and shall be consistent with this
chapter.
      (4)   Approval of access on state highways. No new driveway shall have
direct access to any state highway without the prior approval of the state’s
Highway Engineer of the district where the highway is located. The decision of
the District Engineer may be appealed to the Commissioner of the Department of
Transportation.
      (5)   Residential driveway standards. All dwellings shall provide an
access driveway with all-weather surface, constructed as follows.
         (a)   Driveways less than 200 feet in length. All access driveways
that are less than 200 feet in length shall be constructed to provide the
following:
            1.   An unobstructed driving surface at least 12 feet wide; and
            2.   A driving surface of Class V material of one inch or less in
diameter and may be comprised of crushed lime, or approved aggregate
substitute, that is at least three to four inches thick.
         (b)   Driveways that are 200 feet or more in length. All access
driveways that are 200 feet in length or longer shall be constructed to provide
the following:
            1.   An unobstructed driving surface at least 12 feet wide;
            2.   A driving surface of Class V material of one inch or less in
diameter and may be comprised of crushed lime, or approved aggregate
substitute, that is at least three to four inches thick; and
            3.   An unobstructed minimum 45-foot turning radius at the end of
the driveway near the dwelling, or a turnaround that can accommodate a vehicle
with a 45-foot turning radius, the radius to be constructed with the same
driving surfaces as provided in division (G)(5)(b)2. above.
         (c)   Construction and maintenance. The driveway access shall be
improved to the established standard to ensure access for emergency vehicles
and shall otherwise be continuously maintained. The driveway shall be
constructed prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
      (6)   Non-residential driveways and frontage roads. Driveways serving
non-residential properties shall be constructed in compliance with the access
guidelines in the county’s Transportation Plan and the following: development
of a frontage road may be required by the Planning Commission to provide access
to commercial or industrial properties. The frontage road shall be designed and
constructed to accommodate future development along the roadway.
      (7)   Driveway separation distances. Separation distances between
driveways on county roads shall be consistent with the access guidelines
adopted by the county. Separation distances between driveways on all other
roads shall be consistent with this chapter. Driveway accesses shall be
combined or shared whenever feasible in order to reduce the number of accesses
to state, county or other roads. No more than three accesses shall be permitted
from any residential plat. Additional accesses will require the creation of an
internal access street meeting county and ARD requirements.
      (8)   New roads. New roads serving residential plats or other development
sites shall only be created under the following conditions.
         (a)   Any new road shall be constructed to ARD standards at the sole
cost of the subdivider.
         (b)   Access points for new roads shall meet the standards in this
chapter.
   (H)   Environmental review program.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the environmental review program section is
to provide for the preparation and review of environmental assessment
worksheets (EAW), environmental impact statements (EIS) and other environmental
documents required under M.S. § 116D.01 (1994), as it may be amended from time
to time, to implement the environmental review program in accordance with Minn.
Rules part 4410, one copy of which is on file in the office of the Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)   Actions requiring environmental assessment worksheets.
         (a)   General. The purpose of the environmental assessment worksheet
(EAW) is to assess rapidly, in a worksheet format, whether a proposed action is
a major action with the potential for significant environmental effects and in
the case of a private action, is of more than local significance.
         (b)   EAW required. An EAW shall be prepared for projects that meet or
exceed threshold limits specified in Minn. Rules part 4410.4300, subp. 2 to 34
(1993), or as amended.
         (c)   Optional EAW. The Planning Commission may, upon recommendation
of the Zoning Administrator, require that an optional EAW be prepared on any
proposed action if the action may be a major action and appears to have the
potential for significant environmental effects. The following guidelines shall
also be considered in determining whether an optional EAW shall be required:
            1.   Is the action to be in or near an area that is considered to
be environmentally sensitive or aesthetically pleasing?
            2.   Is the action likely to have disruptive effects such as
generating traffic and noise?
            3.   Will the action have significant impacts on any school
district located within the ARD, City or township?
            4.   Are there public questions of or controversy concerning the
environmental effects of a proposed action?
            5.   Is the action in or near a wetland or on soils unsuitable or
sensitive toward the proposed action?
            6.   Is the action more than a local impact?
      (3)   Action requiring environmental impact statements (EIS). An
environmental impact statement (EIS) shall be required whenever it is
determined that an action is major and has the potential for significant
environmental effect. In making this determination, projects that meet or
exceed threshold limits specified in Minn. Rules part 4410.4400, subp. 2 to 24,
or as amended, indicate that an EIS should be prepared.
      (4)   Action not requiring environmental documents. Projects exempt from
preparation of an EAW or EIS are specified in Minn. Rules Ch. 4410.4600, subp.
2 to 26 (1993), or as amended.
      (5)   Review procedures and administration.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall be the person responsible for the
administration of the environmental review program.
         (b)   The applicant for a permit for any action for which
environmental documents are required by state laws or regulations shall supply
in the manner prescribed by the Zoning Administrator all unprivileged data or
information reasonably requested by the Zoning Administrator that the applicant
has in his or her possession or to which he or she has reasonable access.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for determining
whether an action for an EAW or EIS is required under this section. The Zoning
Administrator shall also determine those proposed actions for which an optional
EAW may be required under this section and shall notify the Planning Commission
of these proposed actions.
         (d)   All EAWs and EISs shall be prepared under the supervision of the
Zoning Administrator and reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission.
         (e)   When reviewing an EAW or EIS, the Zoning Administrator and
Planning Commission may suggest design alterations or other alternatives,
including no action, that would lessen the environmental impact of the project.
The Planning Commission may require these design alterations to be made as a
condition for issuing the permit when it finds that the design alterations are
necessary to lessen the environmental impact of the project.
         (f)   After an EAW is prepared, the Planning Commission shall review
the EAW and determine whether or not it should require the preparation of an
EIS. The Planning Commission shall require an EIS when it finds that project
thresholds are met or exceeded as specified in Minn. Rules part 4410.4400,
subp. 2 to 24 (1993), or as amended.
      (6)   Enforcement.
         (a)   No permit shall be issued for a project for which environmental
documents are required until the entire environmental review procedures
established by this chapter are completed.
         (b)   No work shall commence and any work in progress on any project
for which environmental documents are required shall cease until the
environmental review procedures established in this chapter are fully complied
with.
         (c)   No permit for a project for which an EAW or EIS is required
shall be issued until all costs of preparation and review of the EAW or EIS are
paid by the applicant; all information required is supplied; the environmental
review process has been completed as provided in this chapter; and pursuant to
any written agreement entered into between the applicant and the Planning
Commission.
§ 155.09 SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards for residential and related uses.
      (1)   Single-family detached dwelling. The following standards apply to
construction of single-family dwellings.
         (a)   No dwelling shall be located upon soil that is poorly drained,
structurally inadequate or construction upon which would create erosion control
problems.
         (b)   The parcel shall have frontage of 250 feet on a publicly
maintained road unless constructed as part of a cluster development. No access
to public roads shall be placed in any hazardous locations relative to curves,
hills or vegetation that offer potential safety hazards.
         (c)   All individual sewage treatment systems (ISTS) must meet
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency Rules, Ch. 7080 through 7083, as amended,
and as regulated by this chapter. A minimum of two suitable locations for an
on-site shall be identified on a residential lot before a building permit or
sewer permit is issued. One site shall be designated as a primary site and the
other a secondary site. The secondary site shall be preserved and no
construction shall be permitted on the secondary site, nor shall the site be
used for an activity that would make it unsuitable for future uses as a
drainfield. An increase in the minimum lot size may be required to provide for
the on-site sewage treatment system requirements.
         (d)   All dwellings shall meet the minimum standards of the Minnesota
Building Code, as adopted.
         (e)   A dwelling shall not be located on land with an existing slope
greater than 12%, except where engineering or architectural documentation is
provided that satisfies the Building Official that the site can be adapted to
allow construction of the dwelling unit.
         (f)   Each dwelling unit, except temporary farm dwellings, shall
contain a minimum of 960 square feet of livable area. Carports, overhangs,
garages and such structures shall not qualify in meeting these requirements.
All dwellings must be a minimum of 22 feet in width for two-thirds of the
length of the dwelling.
         (g)   Subdivision of any lot to facilitate residential development
must comply with the requirements of this chapter.
         (h)   If the garage doors face the road, the doors shall occupy no
more than 50% of the front facade.
      (2)   Residential facilities and permitted single-family use. The
following, by state statute, are considered permitted single-family residential
use of property for the purposes of zoning (M.S. § 462.357, subd. 7, as it may
be amended from time to time):
         (a)   A state licensed residential facility serving six or fewer
persons;
         (b)   A housing with services establishment register under M.S. Ch.
144D, as it may be amended from time to time, serving six or fewer persons;
         (c)   A state licensed day care facility serving 12 or fewer persons;
         (d)   A licensed day care facility under Minn. Rules parts 9502.0315
to 9502.0445 to serve 14 or fewer persons; and
         (e)   A residential facility whose primary purpose is to treat
juveniles who have been adjudicated delinquent on the basis of conduct in
violation of criminal statutes relating to sex offenses shall not be considered
a permitted use of single-family residential property.
   (B)   Standards for agricultural and related uses.
      (1)   Farm production. For those properties that were previously zoned
Rural Residential (under the Bridgewater Township or Rice County Ordinance),
farm production involving livestock is limited to one animal unit per acre, up
to a maximum of ten animal units and shall comply with the provisions of the
county’s Feedlot Ordinance and, if required, the regulations of the state’s
Pollution Control Agency.
      (2)   Feedlots.
         (a)   All feedlots shall comply with the provisions of the county’s
Feedlot Ordinance and, if required, the regulations of the state’s Pollution
Control Agency. An interim use permit is required for all feedlots.
         (b)   The following uses are defined as a feedlot for the purpose of
this chapter and shall meet the provisions of the county’s Feedlot Ordinance,
as adopted by reference on the date of this chapter, and if required, the
regulations of the state’s Pollution Control Agency:
            1.   Animal manure composting site that accepts manure transported
from off-site. This use also requires a business license and site plan
approval; and
            2.   Aquaculture, fish farm, subject to the following standards:
               a.   All aquaculture operations shall comply with the standards
set forth in M.S. §§ 17.46 to 17.4999, as they may be amended from time to
time, or successor statutes;
               b.   All aquaculture operations shall be licensed by the State
according to Minn. Rules part 7050.0216 or successor rules; and
               c.   To protect surface and ground water resources, aquaculture
operations may be required to include wastewater treatment or to closed loops
with no discharge.
      (3)   Agricultural businesses.
         (a)   Licensing and site plan approval required. The following
businesses are required to obtain a rural business license, submit a request
for site plan approval and must meet the general standards of division (B)(3)
(b) below:
            1.   Commercial storage in existing agricultural buildings with an
interim use permit; provided, the following standards are met.
               a.   No retail sales are allowed.
               b.   No storage of household goods, textiles or food stuff is
permitted.
            2.   General repair and machinery setup as a home occupation with
an interim use permit;
            3.   Agricultural product sales and supply as a home occupation
with an interim use permit; and
            4.   Greenhouse and nursery sales with an interim use permit
subject to the following criteria.
               a.   In areas previously zoned agricultural, the operator must
reside at the site.
               b.   The retail sales shall be accessory to the principal
nursery, greenhouse or tree farm.
               c.   No sale of product shall take place in the public right-of-
way of any federal, state, county or township road.
               d.   All structures, including temporary structures, shall meet
the minimum setback requirements of the ARD.
         (b)   General standards for agricultural businesses.
            1.   Outdoor storage. All outdoor storage related to agricultural
businesses shall be screened from adjacent residences and public roads.
            2.   Parking. Adequate parking for employees and customers shall be
provided on site and shall meet the parking requirements of this chapter.
            3.   Grounds. The grounds and all structures shall be maintained in
a clean and safe manner.
            4.   Signs. All signs shall meet the requirements of this chapter.
            5.   Access. The site shall be served by a minor collector or
higher functional classification of roadway.
            6.   Compliance. The use shall comply with all applicable federal,
state and local regulations.
            7.   Service levels. The business is of a scale that the demand for
support services, such as sewer, water, police, fire protection, roads or
streets, can be accommodated within the context of the service levels available
in the ARD.
   (C)   Standards for commercial recreation uses.
      (1)   General standards. All commercial recreation uses shown as
permitted, conditionally permitted or permitted with an interim use permit in
the chart in §
155.06 of this chapter shall meet the following requirements.
         (a)   Liability insurance required. Operators of commercial recreation
uses shall carry liability insurance, and shall provide proof of such insurance
upon request to the Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   Days and hours of operation. The application for a conditional
use permit or an interim use permit shall specify the days and hours of
operation. The Planning Commission may limit the days and hours of operation as
a condition of the permit, and may attach reasonable requirements to the use.
         (c)   Licensing and site plan required. Rural business licensing and
site plan approval shall be required to establish a commercial recreation use.
Site plans shall indicate all proposed recreation areas, sanitary facilities,
storage areas, parking, signs, landscaping and other information needed to
assess the impacts of operation.
         (d)   Vehicles. No unlicensed or inoperable vehicles or vehicles parts
shall be stored outside on the site.
      (2)   Golf course, country club, driving range. An interim use permit is
required for this use and the following standards shall apply.
         (a)   The facility shall be located in an area the majority of which
consists of forest land or land with a crop equivalency rating of 65 or less.
         (b)   The site shall have access to a paved road.
         (c)   Storage of pesticides and fertilizers shall follow the standards
of the state’s Department of Agriculture. A plan shall be submitted for storage
and use of pesticides and fertilizers at the facility.
         (d)   Golf courses shall be designed with environmental resources in
mind. Performance standards to this effect include:
            1.   Water recycling and conservation through on-site storage and
use facilities;
            2.   Use of landscaped buffers and other best management practices
to minimize fertilizer runoff and other chemicals from entering surface water
bodies; and
            3.   Use of landscaping and careful layout of the golf course to
preserve and enhance wildlife habitat through preservation of existing
vegetation and habitat as well as the creation of new habitat opportunities.
         (e)   Planted buffers may be required to screen adjacent residential
land or other uses with potential conflicts with golf course activities.
         (f)   Parking shall meet the requirements of this chapter.
         (g)   A transportation management plan shall be submitted to address
off-street parking, traffic circulation and the impact of the facility on
surrounding roadways.
         (h)   Signs shall meet the requirements of this chapter.
         (i)   Facilities that serve food and beverages shall be licensed by
the county.
         (j)   If the course is located in the floodplain, the criteria in the
Floodplain District regulations shall apply.
         (k)   The course must be located on either a minor collector, a major
collector or a minor or major arterial road.
         (l)   There must be adequate fencing to deter trespassing on adjacent
property.
         (m)   On-site sewer must be provided that is in compliance with this
chapter.
         (n)   The course must be a minimum of nine holes.
         (o)   To apply, the applicant must submit information identifying
wetlands, watercourses, water bodies and wooded areas. The applicant will also
state how the proposal would affect the natural features. The proposal will be
reviewed to determine adverse impact on the above natural features and on areas
or sites of historical or archeological significance. Conditions may be imposed
to limit or prevent adverse impact on the above stated or other natural
features.
         (p)   Appropriate uses accessory to a golf course include, but are not
limited to, a pro shop, a club house, locker room, restaurant and bar, private
parties, tennis courts, racquetball, swimming pool, indoor track, exercise
room, sauna or steam room, snowmobiling, snowshoeing and cross-country skiing.
            1.   The above are uses sometimes found in conjunction with golf
courses. Those permitted under a particular interim use permit will be
dependent upon additional parking capacity, the capacity of the on-site sewer
system and the water supply system.
            2.   If these uses are to be permitted, the use must be addressed
in the operational plan submitted as part of the application. Any change in use
requires an amendment to the interim use permit.
      (3)   Organized motor sports. This use category is limited to off-road
vehicles only. An interim use permit is required for this use and the following
standards apply.
         (a)   The majority of the land occupied by the use shall be land with
a crop equivalency rating (CER) of 65 or less.
         (b)   Erosion control plans for trails will be required.
         (c)   Tracks or trails shall be located at least 500 feet from
existing residences.
         (d)   Noise shall be limited to a maximum level of 50 dB(A) at the
nearest property line.
         (e)   The operator must reside at the site.
         (f)   The facility shall be located on a minimum of 20 acres.
         (g)   The facility must be located a minimum of 1,000 feet from any
residence; except that, of the landowner and a minimum of one-half miles from
ten or more homes existing prior to the application for a permit under this
provision.
         (h)   The facility must be located a minimum of 1,000 feet from a
livestock facility.
         (i)   Sufficient on-site parking shall be provided.
         (j)   The Planning Commission may limit the days and hours of
operation as a condition of approval.
         (k)   A caretaker or attendant must be on the site during hours of
operation.
      (4)   Paintball course. An interim use permit is required for this use
and the following standards apply.
         (a)   The operator must reside at the site.
         (b)   Related equipment and structures shall be in compliance with all
applicable local, state and federal regulatory standards.
         (c)   The shooting areas shall be set back as follows:
            1.   From the property line: 100 feet; and
            2.   From the road right-of-way: 100 feet.
         (d)   Noise shall be limited to a maximum level of 50 d(B)A at the
nearest property line.
         (e)   Paint and balls used shall be non-toxic and of a type non-
harmful to the environment.
         (f)   Screening of the facility from neighboring homes shall be
required.
         (g)   No manufactured homes or travel trailers shall be allowed on the
course.
      (5)   Riding and boarding stable. A conditional use permit is required
for this use and the following standards apply.
         (a)   The facility must be at least five acres in size.
         (b)   The majority of the land used for trails shall be forest land or
land with a crop equivalency rating of 65 or less.
         (c)   The facility must be operated in conformance with an approved
plan of operation which shall be submitted as part of the application for the
conditional use permit.
         (d)   The operator must reside at the site.
      (6)   Ski slope, snowboarding, tubing or sledding hills, private. An
interim use permit is required for this use; the use shall meet the general
standards of this chapter.
   (D)   Civic, educational and institutional uses.
      (1)   Day care center. A conditional use permit is required for this use
and the following standards apply.
         (a)   All agency permits and/or licenses shall be obtained from all
applicable agencies.
         (b)   When a day care facility is proposed in a church or school
building originally constructed for use as a church or school, the use shall be
treated as a permitted accessory use.
         (c)   The building and any exterior fenced areas shall meet the
setback standards for a single-family residence.
         (d)   For child day care facilities, at least 50 square feet of
outside play area shall be provided for each child under care. The play area
location and fencing shall be included in the site plan application.
         (e)   For adult day care facilities, at least 150 square feet of
outdoor area for seating or exercise shall be provided for each adult under
care.
         (f)   Any signs shall meet the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Religious institution. A conditional use permit is required for
this use which includes churches, chapels, temples, mosques and the like,
including cemeteries and normal accessory buildings. Any living quarters,
commercial and outdoor recreational uses shall meet the residential
requirements of this chapter. The following standards shall apply.
         (a)   The site shall have access to an arterial or collector street of
sufficient capacity to accommodate the traffic that the site will generate.
         (b)   The site shall be in an area planned for municipal or
centralized utilities, including water supply and sewage treatment. The design
and construction of the facility shall enable connection to future municipal or
centralized facilities with minimal cost to the municipality.
         (c)   The parcel shall have a lot area no less than four times the
area of the building foot print.
      (3)   Campground, public. A conditional use permit is required for this
use and the following standards apply.
         (a)   The campground shall be located in an area, the majority of
which consists of forest land or land with a crop equivalency rating of 65 or
less.
         (b)   A responsible attendant or caretaker shall be in charge of every
recreational camping area at all times and the duties of said attendant or
caretaker shall be to maintain records of the campground and keep the
facilities and the equipment in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition. The
caretaker or attendant shall be the owner or operator of the camping area, or
an appointed representative of the same.
         (c)   Public campgrounds in the ARD shall be limited to facilities
with seasonal, primitive camping sites. Only primitive accessory structures are
permitted. Residential use of camping vehicles and manufactured homes in public
campgrounds shall be prohibited. Use of the campground, except for the
caretaker or attendant, shall be prohibited from November 1 to April 1. Parking
is limited to designated parking areas.
      (4)   Public and private schools and related facilities. A conditional
use permit is required for this use and the following standards apply.
         (a)   The site shall have access to an arterial or collector street of
sufficient capacity to accommodate the traffic that the use will generate.
         (b)   The site shall be in an area planned for municipal or
centralized facilities, including water supply and sewage treatment. The design
and construction of the facility shall enable connection to future municipal or
centralized utilities with minimal cost to the municipality.
         (c)   The use shall comply with all federal, state, county and local
regulations.
         (d)   A transportation plan shall be submitted to address off-street
parking, bus loading and unloading, traffic control and the impact of the
facility on the environment.
         (e)   An environmental management plan, including a water and sewer
management plan to address the use of water and the treatment of on-site storm
water and drainage, shall be submitted to address the impact of the facility on
the environment.
         (f)   Parking shall meet the requirements of this chapter.
         (g)   All parking areas, bus loading and unloading areas, delivery
areas and access roads shall be hard surfaced (bituminous or concrete).
         (h)   All accessory residential or day care uses are subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
         (i)   Signs must meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   Commercial and industrial uses.
      (1)   Bed and breakfast facility. This use requires an interim use permit
and is subject to the following.
         (a)   The facility shall be located in a single-family owner-occupied
detached dwelling.
         (b)   An application submitted for an interim use permit for a bed and
breakfast facility shall identify the family members residing therein and
provide at least one bedroom for every two family members. Bedrooms in excess
of those needed by the resident family may be rented on a daily basis to
guests.
         (c)   No more than two adult guests shall be allowed per bedroom.
         (d)   All dwellings shall comply with the sewage and wastewater
requirements of this chapter.
         (e)   The facility shall maintain a guest register open to inspection
from time to time by the Zoning Administrator.
         (f)   Guest stay shall be limited to seven days.
         (g)   The applicant shall meet all applicable county, state and
federal regulations.
         (h)   The operator/applicant shall carry liability insurance and shall
provide proof of the insurance upon request of the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Cabinet, carpentry shops. This use shall require a conditional use
permit and is subject to the following standards.
         (a)   The operator must reside at the site.
         (b)   The use must meet all county, state and federal requirements.
      (3)   Contractor’s office. This use shall require an interim use permit
and is subject to the following standards.
         (a)   The operator must reside at the site.
         (b)   The use must meet all applicable state, county and local
regulations.
      (4)   Contractor’s yard. This use requires an interim use permit and is
subject to the following:
         (a)   The site is no smaller than two and a half acres and limited to
ten acres in size or 25% of the lot, whichever is less, and is located on a
hard surface public road;
         (b)   The operation is not located within 500 feet of ten or more
homes or a platted area existing prior to location of the business. A maximum
of 25% of the total land area of the contractor’s yard may be used for screened
outdoor storage. Any outside storage area must be screened from view from the
road and any neighboring residences. All business related trucks and vans must
be stored or parked inside a building or behind screening;
         (c)   Supplies stored on the site shall be those used during the
ordinary course of the construction business;
         (d)   The site shall not be located within the Shoreland, Floodplain
or Wild and Scenic Overlay Districts;
         (e)   Employees, except office personnel, shall report to the site
only for the purpose of picking up equipment and supplies and general
maintenance;
         (f)   The operation shall be in accordance with the approved plan
which shall become part of the permit;
         (g)   Any permit under this section is issued to the applicant for the
parcel named in the permit only and is not transferable to another parcel of
property;
         (h)   An application for an interim use permit for a contractor’s yard
shall include the following information:
            1.   A plot plan showing:
               a.   Size of parcel;
               b.   Location and size of all buildings on the parcel;
               c.   Location and size of any area of outdoor storage and any
type of screening used; and
               d.   Location and distance to neighboring residences.
            2.   A narrative with an in-depth description of the contracting
business. At a minimum, the narrative shall contain:
               a.   The number of employees reporting to the site;
               b.   The type of equipment to be stored at the site;
               c.   The type and amount of materials and supplies to be stored
at the site;
               d.   Provisions for maintenance of equipment;
               e.   Provisions for sanitary facilities for workers;
               f.   Types of activities conducted on the site; and
               g.   Location of office.
         (i)   The interim use permit shall be subject to an annual
administrative review as set by the permit;
         (j)   The operator must reside at the site;
         (k)   Security, fencing and gate must be provided; and
         (l)   Security lighting shall be fully shielded.
      (5)   Kennel, commercial, where dogs or other domestic pets are raised
for the sale, boarded or trained. This use requires a interim use permit and is
subject to the following.
         (a)   All animal kennels shall provide indoor facilities having
adequate heating, ventilation and lighting.
         (b)   All animal kennels shall provide outdoor facilities having
shelter from the elements, sunlight, rain, snow and cold weather.
         (c)   All animal kennels shall provide proper drainage for indoor and
outdoor facilities.
         (d)   Each large adult animal shall be provided with a separate fenced
run at least thirty-six (3) square feet in size and located at least 100 feet
from any property line.
         (e)   Facilities shall be inspected at least once a year at the
owner’s expense by a doctor of veterinary medicine who shall provide a report
to the Zoning Administrator describing the condition of the animals and
facility, medical treatment required by the animals, and remedial actions
necessary to improve the condition of the facility.
         (f)   Facilities must obtain all required state and federal licenses
or operational permits.
      (6)   Small appliance repair. This use requires an interim use permit and
is subject to the following standards: the operator shall reside at the site.
      (7)   Temporary asphalt plant, highway construction yard and equipment
placement. This use includes temporary operations such as a bituminous plant,
sand and gravel washing plant, ready mix plant, gravel crusher or contractor’s
yard for highway construction. This use requires an interim use permit and is
subject to the following standards.
         (a)   Equipment placement shall be good for a period not to exceed
eight months.
         (b)   A performance bond shall be required for site restoration and
road repair.
         (c)   The application shall include the following information:
            1.   A plot plan showing the location of the temporary use and any
temporary structures, parking areas and the like;
            2.   A cross-section sketch of the proposed work, if applicable;
            3.   A construction erosion control plan;
            4.   A drainage and restoration plan; and
            5.   A narrative with an in-depth description of the proposed
operation, including at a minimum, the number of employees reporting to the
site, plans for traffic control, the impact on the environment and impact to
neighboring property owners and plans to mitigate any adverse impacts and plans
for provision of sanitary facilities for workers.
      (8)   Upholstery, furniture repair or restoration. This use requires an
interim use permit and is subject to the following.
         (a)   The operator shall reside at the site.
         (b)   The facility shall comply with all applicable local, state and
federal requirements.
      (9)   Veterinary clinic. This use requires an interim use permit and is
subject to the following standards.
         (a)   The operator shall reside at the site.
         (b)   All activities shall take place within a completely enclosed
building with sound-proofing and odor control.
   (F)   Public service and utility uses.
      (1)   Communication towers, primary or accessory. This use requires an
interim use permit and is subject to the following standards.
         (a)   The tower shall be a monopole structure.
         (b)   The maximum height allowed, including all antennas and other
attachments, shall not exceed 200 feet, except publicly-owned towers may exceed
the maximum height.
         (c)   Towers will be set back no less than 125% of the tower height or
the tower fall zone, whichever is greater, with a minimum setback of 20 feet.
No guyed wires shall be allowed.
         (d)   Lights and/or flashing equipment shall not be permitted unless
required by state or federal agencies.
         (e)   Signage shall not be allowed on the tower other than what is
required for safety.
         (f)   The applicant must provide proof from a professional licensed
engineer to verify that the equipment will not interfere with existing
communications for public safety services.
         (g)   The City’s Planning Commission shall hire, and be reimbursed for
actual costs by the applicant, a professional licensed engineer to verify that
the equipment is not able to be located on any existing towers or building/
utility structures within a one-mile radius of the proposed location for any of
the following reasons:
            1.   The necessary equipment would exceed the structural capacity
of the existing tower or building;
            2.   The necessary equipment would cause interference as to
significantly impact the usability of the existing tower or building;
            3.   The existing towers or building/utility structures within a
one-mile search radius cannot or will not accommodate the planned equipment at
a height necessary to function reasonably; and
            4.   The applicant, after a good faith effort, is unable to lease
space on an existing or approved tower or building.
         (h)   The tower must be constructed to accommodate co-location
antennas being placed at varying heights on the tower.
         (i)   The tower shall have an exterior finish that minimizes off-site
visibility and is corrosive resistant.
         (j)   The site shall be surrounded by a security fence six feet in
height with a lockable gate.
         (k)   Equipment and structures shall be designed or screened from view
by suitable landscaping as to reflect and complement the architectural
character of the surrounding neighborhood.
         (l)   All obsolete or unused towers and accompanying accessory
facilities shall be removed within 12 months of the cessation of operations at
the site unless a time extension is granted by the Planning Commission. After
the facilities are removed, the site shall be restored to its original or an
approved state. The user of the tower and/or accompanying accessory facilities
and the landowner shall be responsible for the removal of the facilities and
restoration of the site.
         (m)   The applicant shall submit a plan illustrating all anticipated
future location sites for communication towers and/or communication devices/
apparatus.
         (n)   The applicant must verify through testing by a professional
licensed engineer that the emissions from the tower meet FCC (Federal
Communications Commission) regulations. This will be certified by the Planning
Commission within one year of commencement of the operation of the tower.
      (2)   Wind energy generation facilities and towers, primary or accessory.
This use requires a conditional use permit and is subject to the following.
         (a)   Towers and all related equipment shall be in compliance with all
applicable local, state and federal regulatory standards.
         (b)   Permitted accessory wind generation facilities and towers shall
have a rated capacity of no more than ten kilowatts and shall be of a height no
greater than 50 feet.
         (c)   The tower shall be set back as follows:
 
                       Permitted Towers CUP Towers
Non-owned residence    500 feet         750 feet
Property line 200 feet 200 feet         200 feet
Road right-of-way      300 feet         300 feet
 
         (d)   Setbacks shall be increased to the tower fall zone if it is
greater than any of the above.
         (e)   Noise shall be limited to a maximum level of 50dB(A) at the
nearest property line.
         (f)   All towers supporting generation units with a rated capacity of
more than 40 kilowatts shall be of a monopole type (self-supporting, tubular)
and shall be no more than 300 feet in height.
         (g)   Rotor blades shall not exceed a height of 500 feet from the
ground.
         (h)   No lighting shall be permitted other than that required by
federal requirements.
         (i)   All connecting power lines shall be buried underground.
         (j)   Tower and facilities shall be designed to minimize their visual
impact.
   (G)   Residential uses, accessory.
      (1)   Home occupations, permitted. A home occupation may be permitted in
the ARD subject to the following.
         (a)   The occupation shall be conducted only by person(s) residing in
the dwelling.
         (b)   The home occupation shall be incidental and subordinate to the
use of the property for residential purposes.
         (c)   No traffic shall be generated by the home occupation beyond that
which is reasonable and normal for the area in which it is located.
         (d)   One non-illuminated sign no more than four square feet in size
and attached to the principal dwelling may be provided.
         (e)   Entrance to the home occupation is from within the structure,
and no exterior evidence of the business is evident.
         (f)   The home occupation shall not result in increased usage of the
septic system.
         (g)   One additional parking space shall be provided for the use of
clients, deliveries and the like.
      (2)   Home occupation, with interim use permit. A home occupation that
exceeds any of the standards for permitted home occupations may be allowed as
an interim use in any district where residential uses are permitted, if the
home occupation meets the following.
         (a)   No more than one person other than person(s) residing in the
dwelling shall be employed in conjunction with the home occupation.
         (b)   The home occupation may be conducted in an accessory building or
attached garage not exceeding a 2,000 square feet of gross floor area.
         (c)   An outside entrance may be provided.
         (d)   No traffic shall be generated by the home occupation beyond that
which is reasonable and normal for the area in which it is located.
         (e)   One non-illuminated sign no more than 16 square feet in size may
be provided.
         (f)   No equipment or processes used in the home occupation shall
create noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference
detectable off the premises.
         (g)   Rural business licensing shall be required for home occupations
that require an interim use permit.
      (3)   Room and board facilities. Facilities shall be located within a
principal residence and shall serve a maximum of two individuals; a separate
kitchen for this purpose is prohibited.
   (H)   Structures accessory and temporary to permitted uses.
      (1)   Antennas. Satellite dish antennas and other antenna devices are
permitted subject to the following.
         (a)   Antennas shall be in compliance with all state and local
Building and Electrical Code requirements.
         (b)   Verification that the structural design and installation has
been approved by a professional engineer shall be provided to the Building
Official upon request.
         (c)   Antennas shall be limited to one per building or, if more than
one antenna is proposed, the antenna shall be clustered in a single, screened
fashion.
         (d)   No advertising message shall be on the antenna structure.
         (e)   Antennas shall comply with the setback requirements for
principal structures and shall be located between the principal structure and a
public street.
         (f)   No antenna shall be located within a shore impact zone or a
bluff impact zone.
         (g)   Antennas shall be screened to the greatest extent practicable to
minimize visual impacts on surrounding properties. Screening shall include
landscape materials for ground-mounted antennas and materials compatible with
those utilized on the exterior of the building for roof-mounted antennas.
         (h)   Antennas located closer to a property line then the height of
the antenna shall be designed and engineered to collapse progressively within
the distances between the antenna and the property line.
         (i)   Antenna height shall be no more than 60 feet as measured from
the ground at the base of the structure.
      (2)   Detached garages and storage sheds. Detached garages and storage
sheds shall conform to the ARD setback requirements.
      (3)   Seasonal roadside stands. Seasonal roadside stands for sale of farm
products are allowed with an interim use permit, subject to the following.
         (a)   No more than one stand per farm shall be permitted.
         (b)   Adequate off-street parking shall be provided.
         (c)   Merchandise shall be limited to agricultural products or
manufactured goods produced by individuals having a residence or farm within
the ARD.
         (d)   No electronic signs shall be permitted.
      (4)   Temporary farm dwelling. The purpose of a temporary farm dwelling
is to provide living accommodations for farm workers, health care workers
assisting farm residents or ailing parents or children. Temporary farm
dwellings are allowed with an interim use permit, subject to the following
standards.
         (a)   The applicant shall provide either a signed statement
identifying that the farming activity requires additional farm workers or a
signed doctor’s certificate that verifies that the persons needing care suffer
from health problems that would necessitate constant supervised care and
attention.
         (b)   The interim use permit shall be issued for a three-year term
subject to renewal if a verified statement or doctor’s certificate has been
filed with the Zoning Administrator and approved by the Planning Commission.
         (c)   The dwelling shall be limited to a manufactured home, which
shall be maintained as highway ready, and shall be removed when no longer
needed as a residence. HIGHWAY READY shall mean having the manufactured home on
wheels of having the internal jacking system attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities commonly used in campgrounds and trailer parks. The
manufactured home shall have no permanent structural additions attached.
         (d)   The dwelling shall be accessory to the primary residence on the
farm.
         (e)   The dwelling shall be deemed the second dwelling unit for the
quarter-quarter section.
         (f)   The dwelling shall be a minimum of 14 feet wide and a minimum of
672 square feet in area and shall meet current Department of Housing and Urban
Development Code for manufactured homes, or bear a seal and a compliance
certificate and data plate evidencing the manufacturer’s certification of code
compliance.
         (g)   The dwelling shall meet all minimum building setbacks, shall be
properly anchored and shall be setback a minimum of 50 feet from the primary
residence on the parcel.
         (h)   The interim use permit shall automatically terminate and the
unit shall be removed when title transfers or a contract for deed is recorded
unless the transfer occurred between family members.
         (i)   The dwelling shall comply with the sewage and wastewater
treatment regulations of this chapter.
      (5)   Other structures, storage shed. Storage sheds shall conform to the
requirements set forth in the district in which they are located.
§ 155.10 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Nuisance standards.
      (1)   Noise. Any use established shall be so operated that no undue noise
resulting from the use is perceptible beyond the boundaries of the property on
which the use is located. This standard shall not apply to incidental traffic,
parking, loading, construction, farming or maintenance operations.
      (2)   Vibration. Any use creating periodic earth-shaking vibration shall
be prohibited if undue vibrations are perceptible beyond the boundaries of the
property on which the use is located. This standard shall not apply to
vibrations created during periods of construction.
      (3)   Glare and heat. Any use producing intense heat or light
transmission shall be performed with the necessary shielding to prevent such
heat or light from being detectable at the lot line of the site on which the
use is located.
      (4)   Smoke and particulate matter. Any use established, enlarged or
remodeled after the effective date of this chapter shall be so operated as to
meet the minimum requirements of the state’s Pollution Control Agency for the
emission of smoke and particulate matter.
      (5)   Toxic or noxious matter. No use shall discharge into the
atmosphere, water or subsoil, any toxic or noxious matter. All discharges shall
be in conformity to the regulations and standards adopted by the state’s
Pollution Control Agency.
      (6)   Light. Lighting shall be shielded and directed away from the public
right-of-way and adjacent properties and shall not exceed one foot candle of
illumination at the property line unless specifically approved.
      (7)   Compliance. In order to ensure compliance with the performance
standards set forth above, the Zoning Administrator may require the owner or
operator of any permitted, conditional or interim use to conduct investigations
and tests needed to demonstrate compliance with the performance standards. The
investigations and tests shall be performed by an independent testing
organization selected by the Planning Commission. All costs shall be borne by
the owner or operator.
      (8)   Use of fertilizer, pesticides or animal wastes. Use must be done in
a way as to minimize impact on the shore impact zone or a public water by
proper application or use of earth or vegetation.
   (B)   Storage standards.
      (1)   All materials and equipment shall be stored within a building or
screened from adjoining properties, except for the following:
         (a)   Laundry drying and recreational equipment;
         (b)   Construction and landscaping materials and equipment being
currently used for construction of the premises; and
         (c)   Off-street parking, except as otherwise regulated herein.
      (2)   Boats and travel trailers and motor homes, less than 35 feet in
length, are permissible, if stored in the side or rear yard not less than ten
feet distant from any property line. Existing uses shall comply with this
provision within 12 months of the effective date of this chapter.
      (3)   In a residential platted subdivision, wood piles must be neatly
stacked, a maximum of eight feet in height, and must not take up more than 10%
of the total open space of a yard.
      (4)   All uses associated with the bulk storage of oil, gasoline, liquid
fertilizer, chemicals and similar liquids shall comply with the requirements of
any applicable federal or state law, rules or regulations and must have
documents from those offices stating that the use is in compliance. Fuel tanks
may be permitted as accessory use only and shall be subject to setback
requirements. All existing, above-ground liquid storage tanks shall comply with
the requirements of the State Fire Marshal’s office.
   (C)   Visual standards.
      (1)   Screening. When any commercial, business or industrial use is
adjacent to property zoned or developed for residential use, that business or
industry shall provide screening along the boundary of the residential
property. The screening required shall consist of fences, trees or shrubs or
other methods as approved by the Planning Commission before the plan is
implemented.
      (2)   Fences. The following general standards apply to all fences
constructed within the ARD.
         (a)   Any fence in excess of six feet in height shall require an
interim use permit, except open fences constructed for agricultural purposes.
         (b)   Fences shall be located entirely upon the private property of
the persons constructing the fence unless the owner of the adjacent property
agrees, in writing, that such fence may be erected on the division lines of the
respective properties. If adjacent neighbors cannot agree that such fence be
placed on the property line, such fence must be placed one foot from the
property line. The Zoning Administrator may require the owner of the property
with an existing fence to establish the boundary line of the property by a
survey.
         (c)   Posts and framework shall be placed within the property lines of
the owner. The actual fencing material, such as chain link, lumber, pickets and
the like, shall be placed on the side of the fence which faces the street or
adjacent property.
         (d)   Building permits are not required for fences under six feet in
height.
         (e)   No fence shall be constructed on road rights-of-way and shall
not be placed in a manner that obstructs the view within the intersection and
sight distance triangle or that interferes with use of the right-of-way for
right-of-way purposes.
         (f)   Every fence shall be constructed in a workmanlike manner and of
substantial material reasonably suited to the purpose for which the fence is to
be used. Cloth or canvas shall not be allowed.
         (g)   Every fence shall be maintained in a condition of good repair
and shall not be allowed to become and remain in a condition that would
constitute a public nuisance or a dangerous condition.
         (h)   The following additional standards apply to residential fences.
            1.   The maximum height for a residential fence shall be six feet.
            2.   Barbed wire is not permitted in a residential platted
subdivision.
         (i)   The following additional standards shall apply to business and
industrial fences.
            1.   Fences may be located on a lot line to a height of six feet.
Fences over six feet in height shall require an interim use permit.
            2.   A security arm for barbed wire shall be permitted when needed
for security reasons as approved by the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Hazardous elements standards.
      (1)   Explosives. Any use requiring the storage, utilization or
manufacturing of products that could decompose by detonation shall be located
not less than 400 feet from any residence. This section shall not apply to the
storage or usage of liquid petroleum or natural gas for normal residential or
business purpose.
      (2)   Radiation emission. All activities that emit radioactivity shall
comply with the minimum requirements of the state’s Pollution Control Agency.
      (3)   Incinerators. The installation of incinerators and their use and
design shall be in conformity with the regulations and standards adopted by the
state’s Pollution Control Agency.
   (E)   Parking standards. All parking, driveway and loading areas hereafter
constructed or maintained shall conform to the provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   Computing requirements. In computing the number of parking spaces
required, the following rules shall apply.
         (a)   “Square feet” shall refer to the gross floor area of the
specific use.
         (b)   The parking space requirement for a use not specifically
mentioned herein shall be the same as required for a use of a similar nature,
as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Minimum size regulations. Each automobile space shall contain a
minimum area of not less than 300 square feet, including access drives, a width
of not less than nine feet and a depth of not less than 18 feet. Each space
shall be adequately served by access drives. All loading spaces shall be
sufficient to meet the requirements of each use and shall provide adequate
space for storage and maneuvering of the vehicles they are designed to serve.
      (3)   Construction and maintenance.
         (a)   On-site parking areas and driveways shall be improved with a
durable surface.
         (b)   Parking areas and driveways shall have curbs where needed to
protect required yards, direct traffic or to control surface water runoff.
         (c)   Adequate areas for snow removal and storage shall be provided
outside of required parking spaces.
         (d)   The operator of the principal building or use shall maintain
parking and loading areas, access drives and yard areas in a neat and adequate
manner.
         (e)   Directional signs indicating entrances and exits to on-site
parking areas are encouraged. Directional signs shall not bear any business
name or be used for advertising.
      (4)   Required number of on-site parking spaces. On-site parking areas of
sufficient size to provide parking for patrons, customers, suppliers, visitors
and employees shall be provided on the premises of each use. The minimum number
of required on-site parking spaces for the following uses shall be as specified
in the following table:
Land Use Required Spaces
Land Use                            Required Spaces
Automobile service station          4, plus 2 per service bay
Commercial indoor recreational use  1 per 250 square feet of public area
Commercial outdoor recreational use As determined by the conditional or
                                    interim use permit
                                    1 per employee on the largest shift, or
Limited production and processing   1 per 800 square feet, whichever is
                                    greater *
Lodging                             1 per guest room plus 1 per employee on
                                    largest shift
Office or service business          1 per 400 square feet *
Outdoor sales lot                   1 per 2,000 square feet of outdoor sales
                                    area *
Religious institution, place of     1 per 3 seats in main seating area
assembly
Residential dwelling unit           2 per dwelling unit
Restaurant, café                   1 per 100 square feet of customer
                                    seating area *
Retail business                     1 per 250 square feet *
Schools, grades K - 12              2 per classroom, plus 1 per 3 students
                                    of legal driving age, based on capacity
                                    1 per employee on largest shift, or 1
Storage, wholesale or warehouse use per 2,000 square feet, whichever is
                                    greater *
NOTES TO TABLE:
* The parking area will be increased by 20% if parking stalls are not paved
and striped.
 
      (5)   Loading areas. Off-street loading space shall be provided for any
non-residential use that requires the receipt or distribution of materials or
merchandise by trucks or similar vehicles, and that have a gross floor area of
5,000 square feet or more.
         (a)   Loading areas shall be provided according to the following
minimum standards.
            1.   The off-street loading requirement for buildings with less
than 20,000 square feet of gross floor area may be satisfied by the designation
of a loading zone area on the site. This loading zone area shall be separate
from any required off-street parking area and access to it shall not conflict
with automobile or pedestrian circulation within the site.
            2.   Buildings with 20,001 to 50,000 square feet of gross floor
area shall provide a minimum of one loading space.
            3.   Buildings with 50,001 to 100,000 square feet of gross floor
area shall provide a minimum of two loading spaces.
            4.   Buildings with 101,000 or more square feet of gross floor area
shall provide one additional loading space per each additional 30,000 square
feet gross floor area.
         (b)   All loading spaces and driveways shall be surfaced with asphalt
or concrete.
      (6)   Screening of parking and loading areas.
         (a)   All commercial or industrial parking and loading areas shall be
screened from adjoining residential or agricultural uses by a wall, solid fence
or densely planted compact vegetation at least six feet in height within two
years of planting.
         (b)   All parking areas adjacent to a public right-of-way shall be
screened with a masonry wall, fence, berm or hedge or combination that forms a
screen at least three feet in height and not less than 90% opaque on a year-
round basis. Overstory trees shall be planted within the required setback areas
at intervals of one tree per 40 feet.
   (F)   Sign regulations. All signs hereinafter erected, altered,
substantially repaired, relocated and maintained, except official traffic and
road or street signs, shall conform to the following standards.
      (1)   Permit required. No sign shall be erected unless the owner of the
land on which the sign will be placed obtains a sign permit.
      (2)   Billboards prohibited. Off-premises signs, more commonly known as
billboards, shall be prohibited.
      (3)   Sign types - where allowed. Wall signs and monument signs are
allowed in any zoning district.
      (4)   Number per lot. A maximum of one large sign, or two small signs
that combined do not exceed the maximum specified in division (F)(5) below, per
lot, shall be permitted in the ARD.
      (5)   Maximum size. The maximum size of a permitted sign is as follows:
         (a)   For residential uses and permitted home occupations: four square
feet for each of two allowed sign faces;
         (b)   For home occupations allowed with an interim use permit: 16
square feet for each of two allowed sign faces;
         (c)   For all other uses: 32 square feet for each of two allowed sign
faces; and
         (d)   If two sign faces are proposed, they shall be immediately behind
the other appearing to be two sides of a single sign and the faces shall not be
at an angle to the other.
      (6)   Maximum height.
         (a)   Monument signs shall not exceed 12 feet in height above the
average grade at the base of the sign.
         (b)   No part of a pylon sign shall exceed 30 feet in height above the
average grade at the base of the sign.
         (c)   No building-mounted sign shall extend above the roof of the
building.
         (d)   Ground-mounted signs are encouraged instead of building-mounted
or pylon signs.
      (7)   Illumination. If a sign is externally illuminated, the illumination
shall be directed only on to the sign and the light source shall not be visible
from surrounding properties. Electronic signs shall not be permitted.
      (8)   Safe condition. No sign shall be permitted that shall in any way
endanger the health or safety of the general public.
      (9)   Clean area.
         (a)   All areas surrounding a permitted sign shall be kept free from
unreasonable growth, debris or rubbish.
         (b)   Failure to correct the conditions after being so directed in
writing by the Zoning Administrator shall be cause for revocation of the
existing sign permit and removal of the sign.
      (10)   Temporary signs. Signs of a temporary nature that do not exceed 12
square feet in area shall be exempt from the permitting requirement. Temporary
signs may be displayed for a period not to exceed 30 days, on a maximum of four
occasions per year.
      (11)   Removal for roadway construction. Signs shall be removed by the
sign owner at no expense or claim of damage to any governmental unit, if
necessary for construction, reconstruction or relocation of any public roadway.
      (12)   Limits on location. The following limits on location apply to all
signs, permitted and temporary.
         (a)   No sign, except as erected by an official unit of government for
the direction of traffic or necessary public information, shall be permitted
within the right-of-way of any public road.
         (b)   All permitted signs shall be located outside of the required
sight triangle and shall maintain a 20-foot setback from all property lines.
   (G)   Environmental performance standards.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this division (G) is to provide regulations
of general applicability for property throughout the ARD, to protect the
natural environment, to minimize conflicts among land uses and to implement the
natural resource goals of the Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   Applicability. The regulations set forth in this division (G) apply
to all structures and all land uses, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter. No permit shall be issued unless provisions are made for meeting
applicable environmental performance standards in this division (G).
      (3)   Impervious surface limitation. Impervious coverage of lots must not
exceed 25% of the lot area including structures, roads, driveways and parking
areas.
      (4)   Water supply and sewage treatment.
         (a)   Water supply standards. Any public or private water supply for
domestic purposes must meet or exceed the water quality standards of the
state’s Department of Health and the state’s Pollution Control Agency.
         (b)   Sewage treatment standards. Private or community sewer standards
in all districts shall meet the standards for individual sewage treatment
systems found in Minn. Rules Ch. 7080.
         (c)   Alternative septic site required. Each proposed use shall
identify two sites approved for septic systems, and these sites shall be
protected during construction and preserved in their natural state until their
use as a septic system location.
         (d)   Compliance inspection required. A sewage treatment compliance
inspection shall be required prior to issuance of any permit or certificate
relating to water usage. The compliance inspection shall determine if the
sewage treatment system is in conformance with this chapter and state
regulations.
         (e)   Use of public systems required. Where available, publicly-owned
systems must be used within one year of the date of issuance of a permit under
this chapter. Existing non-conforming individual septic systems may be exempted
at the discretion of the publicly owned system governing body if the governing
body agrees to manage and regularly inspect the individual system. A new
individual system shall not be allowed where a publicly owned system is
available.
      (5)   Drainage and storm water management. No land shall be developed and
no use shall be permitted that results in water run-off causing flooding or
erosion on adjacent property. The run-off shall be properly channeled into a
storm drain, watercourse, ponding area or other suitable facility designed to
intercept and store run-off in an amount caused by a 100-year, 24-hour storm
event (six inches of rain in 24 hours).
         (a)   Drainage plan required. A drainage plan shall be submitted and
approved for all new commercial, industrial, institutional, residential and
planned unit developments.
         (b)   Effect on adjacent land. A proposed development shall not
increase the runoff rate of storm water so as to cause an adverse effect upon
adjacent lands.
         (c)   Use of natural vegetation and natural features. Erosion
protection measures shall make maximum use of natural in-place vegetation
rather than the placing of new vegetation on-site as erosion control
facilities. When possible, existing natural drainageways, natural or created
wetlands, and vegetated soil surfaces must be used to convey, store, filter and
retain storm water runoff.
         (d)   Disturbed area wetlands. Development must be planned and
conducted in a manner that will minimize the extent of disturbed areas, runoff
velocities and erosion potential, and that will reduce and delay runoff
volumes. Disturbed areas must be stabilized and protected as soon as possible
and facilities or methods used to retain sediment on the site.
         (e)   Constructed features standards. When development density,
topographic features and soil and vegetation conditions are not sufficient to
adequately handle storm water runoff using natural features and vegetation,
various types of constructed facilities such as diversions, settling basins,
skimming devices, dikes, waterways and ponds shall be required. Preference must
be given to designs using surface drainage, vegetation and infiltration rather
than buried pipes and human-made materials and facilities. Settling basins to
intercept urban runoff shall be sized to a minimum of a 100-year, 24-hour (six
inches of rain in 24 hours) storm design.
         (f)   Certification by a professional. When constructed facilities are
used for storm water management, documentation must be provided by a
professional engineer licensed with the state that they are designed and
installed consistent with federal, state and local standards.
         (g)   Filtering and settling required. New constructed storm water
outfalls to public waters must provide for filtering or settling of suspended
soils and skimming of surface debris before discharge.
         (h)   Easement dedications required. When a land or easement
dedication is a condition of approval for a permit or subdivision, the
applicant must provide easements over natural drainage or ponding areas for
management of ponding areas, storm water and significant wetlands.
         (i)   Management and maintenance plan required. A management and
maintenance plan shall be submitted and approved for all new commercial,
industrial, institutional, residential and planned unit developments. The
management and maintenance plan shall include plans for ownership, management
and maintenance of drainage and storm water control features.
   (H)   Erosion and sedimentation control standards.
      (1)   Wetlands and water bodies. Wetlands and other water bodies shall
not be used as primary sediment traps during or after construction.
      (2)   Placement of structures. All new structures shall be located in
such a manner as to minimize the removal of vegetation and alteration of
natural topography.
      (3)   Maintenance. Any and all erosion control, storm water runoff,
utility access and similar structures shall be designed to be maintained,
cleaned out and otherwise operated without requiring the crossing of private
lands with or by the operation of motorized heavy maintenance vehicles and
equipment, such as bulldozers, trucks and backhoes on slopes in excess of 8%.
As used in this section, private lands includes any outlots.
      (4)   Site suitability. The applicant shall demonstrate that the types
and densities of land use proposed shall be suited to the site and soil
conditions and shall not present a threat to the maintenance of water quality,
a potential increase in maintenance cost of utilities, parking areas or roads,
and shall not be subject to problems due to soil limitations including, but not
limited to, soil bearing strength, shrink/swell potential and excessive frost
movement.
      (5)   Construction fencing. The applicant shall be required to furnish
and to install fences wherever the Zoning Administrator determines a hazardous
condition may exist or an environmentally sensitive area needs to be protected
during construction. The applicant, of his or her own volitions, shall provide
fencing wherever a hazardous condition may exist during construction prior to
any determination made by the Zoning Administrator.
      (6)   Construction waste handling. No cut trees, timber, debris, earth,
rock, stones, rubbish or waste materials of any kind shall be buried in any
land or left or deposited on any lot or future street without the approval of
the Zoning Administrator.
      (7)   Topsoil preservation. If topsoil is removed from sites or lots
during construction, it shall be stored and stockpiled for re-spreading over
lots and shall not be sold or otherwise removed from the subdivision or site
area unless the removal of excess topsoil is approved by the Planning
Commission.
      (8)   Topsoil replacement. Topsoil shall be re-spread so as to provide at
least six inches of cover originally existing on the site or a minimum of four
inches of cover if the original cover was less. The site shall also be
stabilized by seeding and/or sodding.
   (I)   Landscaping requirements. All required yards for any structure shall
either be landscaped or be left in a natural state. If any yards are to be
landscaped, they shall be landscaped attractively with natural vegetation,
lawn, trees and shrubs. Any areas left in a natural state shall be properly
maintained in a sightly and well-kept condition. Yards adjoining any
residential district shall be landscaped with buffer planting screens. Plans of
the screens shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator for approval as part
of the site plan and installed prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
   (J)   Steep slopes. Slopes in excess of 18% and over 50 feet in length shall
not be graded, excavated or developed. Slopes from 12% to 18% natural grade
shall only be grades, excavated or developed according to an approved grading
plan providing for stabilization and vegetation after grading as approved by
the City Council. Additional steep slope provisions apply in the Shoreland,
Wild and Scenic and Floodplain Overlay Districts.
   (K)   Trees, forest land and natural vegetation preservation.
      (1)   General standards. Natural vegetation, including ground cover and
trees, shall be preserved and maintained to the greatest extent possible in
order to control erosion and runoff, preserve habitat and maintain a buffer
between land uses. The following restrictions shall apply to all development.
         (a)   Structures should be located in such a manner that the maximum
number of trees shall be preserved.
         (b)   Prior to the granting of a building permit, it shall be the duty
of the person seeking the permit to demonstrate that there are no feasible or
prudent alternatives to the cutting of trees on the site.
         (c)   Forestation, reforestation or landscaping shall utilize a
variety of tree species and shall not utilize any species presently under
disease epidemic. Species planted shall be hardy under local conditions and
compatible with the local landscape.
         (d)   The root zone of existing trees shall be preserved and protected
during development including grading and contouring, so that the trees are not
adversely affected by the construction work.
         (e)   Notwithstanding the above, the removal of trees seriously
damaged by storms or other natural causes or diseased trees is permitted.
         (f)   Residential development shall not disturb or remove trees more
than one-half acre, commercial or industrial development no more than one acre
of healthy trees for the building pad, out buildings, driveways, septic system,
firebreak, well or for any other purpose without first providing a tree
replanting plan for the site to the Zoning Administrator.
         (g)   A tree inventory shall be carried out by the developer and no
more than 40% of trees with a caliper of six inches or greater at DBH shall be
cleared or in any way removed from the site unless replaced with an equal
number and variety of trees of at least six inches at DBH (measured four and
one-half feet above ground level), or an equivalent as determined by the Zoning
Administrator.
         (h)   As a mitigating measure, where trees are to be removed, the
developer shall prepare a tree planting plan to be approved by the Zoning
Administrator. The plan shall be implemented as practical for the season prior
to a final occupancy permit is issued.
         (i)   Timing of tree removal shall be such as to minimize tree loss.
      (2)   Forest land management standards. The harvesting of timber and
associated reforestations or conversion of forested use to a non-forested use
must be conducted consistent with the following standards.
         (a)   Timber harvesting and associated reforestation must be conducted
consistent with the provisions of the state’s Non-point Source Pollution
Assessment - Forestry and the provisions of the Water Quality in Forest
Management’s “Best Management Practices in Minnesota”.
         (b)   Forest land conversion to another use requires issuance of a
conditional use permit and adherence to the following standards.
            1.   Shore and bluff impact zones must not be intensively cleared
of vegetation; and
            2.   An erosion and sediment control plan is developed and approved
by the local soil and water conservation district before issuance of a
conditional use permit for the conversion.
   (L)   Wetlands preservation. To the extent possible, all wetlands, including
marshlands and swamps, shall be retained in their natural state. Alterations to
wetlands shall require review from the county’s Soil and Water Conservation
District. The following provisions apply to wetlands in the ARD.
      (1)   Discharges.
         (a)   No part of any sewage treatment system requiring on-land or in-
ground disposal of waste shall be located closer than 75 feet from the wetland
boundary, as delineated by a certified wetland specialist, or ordinary high
water level unless it is proven by the applicant that no effluent will
immediately or gradually reach the wetland because of existing physical
characteristics of the site or the system.
         (b)   Organic waste that would normally be disposed of at a solid
waste treatment site or that would normally be discharged into a sewage
treatment system or sewer shall not be directly or indirectly discharged to a
wetland.
         (c)   Untreated storm water runoff from construction sites may not be
directed to a wetland.
      (2)   Building constraints.
         (a)   The lowest floor elevation of buildings used for living quarters
or work area shall be at least three feet above the ordinary high water level.
         (b)   Structures shall be setback 20 feet from the wetland boundary,
as delineated by a certified wetland specialist.
   (M)   Additional requirements for designated trout streams.
      (1)   Any development or activity within the shoreland area of an
agricultural river tributary stream that is a designated trout stream as
designated by the Department of Natural Resources shall include efforts to
mitigate the impact of development on the trout stream. The mitigation shall
offset the effects of the development on water quality, water quantity and
water temperature.
      (2)   Mitigation may include, but is not limited to, planting of stream
bank vegetation, additional structure setbacks or additional storm water
management controls.
§ 155.11 FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statutory authorization, findings of fact and purpose.
      (1)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the state has, in M.S.
Ch. 103F and M.S. § 462.357, as they may be amended from time to time,
delegated the responsibility to local government units to adopt regulations
designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the Planning Commission of the
City does ordain as follows.
      (2)   Findings of fact.
         (a)   General. The flood hazard areas of the ARD are subject to
periodic inundation which results in potential loss of life, loss of property,
health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare.
         (b)   Methods used to analyze flood hazards. This section is based
upon a reasonable method of analyzing flood hazards that is consistent with the
standards established by the state’s Department of Natural Resources.
         (c)   National Flood Insurance Program compliance. This section is
adopted to comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program (NFIP), codified as 44 C.F.R. parts 59 through 78, as
amended, so as to maintain the community’s eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
      (3)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this section to promote
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize those losses
described in this chapter.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Lands to which this section applies. This section shall apply to
all lands within the Annexation Reserve District (ARD) shown on the official
zoning map and/or the attachments thereto as being located within the
boundaries of the Floodway, Flood Fringe or General Floodplain Districts. The
Floodplain District shall be considered a zoning district overlying and
superseding all existing land use regulations in the ARD. Permitted,
conditional and interim uses shall be permitted only if not prohibited by any
established, underlying zoning district. The requirements of this section shall
apply in addition to other ARD regulations.
      (2)   Establishment of official zoning map. The official zoning map
together with all materials attached thereto is hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this section. The attached material shall include the
Flood Insurance Study for Bridgewater Township prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and dated 8-4-1988 and the Flood Insurance Rate Map
dated 8-4-1988 therein. The official zoning map shall be on file in the office
of the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   Regulatory flood protection elevation. The regulatory flood
protection elevation shall be an elevation no lower than one foot above the
elevation of the regional flood plus any increases in flood elevation caused by
encroachments on the floodplain that result from designation of a floodway.
      (4)   Interpretation.
         (a)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
section shall be held to be the minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the Planning Commission and shall not be deemed a
limitation or repeal of any other powers granted by state statutes.
         (b)   The boundaries of the floodplain district shall be determined by
scaling distances on the official zoning map. Where interpretation is needed as
to the exact location of the Floodplain Overlay District, the Zoning
Administrator shall make the necessary interpretations based on elevations on
the regional (100-year) flood profile, if available. If 100-year flood
elevations are not available, the Zoning Administrator may:
            1.   Require a floodplain evaluation consistent with this section
to determine a 100-year flood elevation for the site;
            2.   Base the decision on available hydraulic/hydrologic or site
elevation survey date that demonstrates the likelihood the site is within or
outside of the floodplain; or
            3.   Set the 100-year flood elevation on outletted lakes at three
feet above the ordinary high water level.
      (5)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended by this
section to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this section imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this section shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent
with this section are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
      (6)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. This section does not imply
that areas outside the floodplain districts or land uses permitted within the
districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. This section shall not
create liability on the part of the Planning Commission or any officer or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
section or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
      (7)   Severability. If any section, clause, provision or portion of this
section is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this section shall not be affected thereby.
      (8)   Definitions. Definitions for this section shall be as found in §
155.03 of this chapter.
   (C)   Establishment of Floodplain Overlay District.
      (1)   Districts.
         (a)   Floodway District. The Floodway District shall include those
areas designated as floodway on the Flood Insurance Rate Map adopted in this
section.
         (b)   Flood Fringe District. The Flood Fringe District shall include
those areas designated as floodway fringe on the Flood Insurance Rate Map as
adopted in this section as being within Zone AE, AO or Zone AH without a
floodway, but being located outside the floodway.
         (c)   General Floodplain District. The General Floodplain District
shall include those areas designated as Zone 1 or Zones AE, Zone AO, or Zone AH
without a floodway on the Flood Insurance Rate Map adopted in this section.
      (2)   Compliance. No new structure or land shall hereafter be used and no
structure shall be constructed, located, extended, converted or structurally
altered without full compliance with the terms of this section and other
applicable regulations that apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this
chapter. Within all Floodway and Flood Fringe Districts, and General Floodplain
Districts, all uses not listed as permitted, conditional or interim under this
section shall be prohibited. In addition, a caution is provided that:
         (a)   New manufactured homes, replacement manufactured homes and
certain travel trailers are subject to the general provisions of this chapter;
         (b)   Modifications, additions, structural alterations, normal
maintenance and repair or repair after damage to existing non-conforming
structures and non-conforming uses of structures or land are regulated by the
general provisions of this chapter; and
         (c)   As-built elevations for elevated or flood-proofed structures
must be certified by ground surveys and flood-proofing techniques must be
designed and certified by a registered professional engineer or architect as
specified in this chapter.
   (D)   Floodway District (FW).
      (1)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in the Floodway
District:
         (a)   General farming, pasture, grazing, outdoor plant nurseries,
horticulture, truck farming, forestry, sod farming and wild crop harvesting;
         (b)   Industrial-commercial loading areas, parking areas and airport
landing strips;
         (c)   Private and public golf courses, tennis courts, driving ranges,
archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching ramps, swimming areas, parks,
wildlife and nature preserves, game farms, fish hatcheries, shooting preserves,
target ranges, trap and skeet ranges, hunting and fishing areas and single or
multiple purpose recreational trails; and
         (d)   Residential lawns, gardens, parking areas and play areas.
      (2)   Standards for floodway permitted uses.
         (a)   The use shall have a low flood damage potential.
         (b)   The use shall be permissible in the underlying zoning district.
         (c)   The use shall not obstruct flood flows or increase flood
elevations and shall not involve structures, fill, obstructions, excavations or
storage of materials or equipment.
      (3)   Conditional uses. The following uses of land or structures are
considered conditional uses in the Floodway District:
         (a)   Structures accessory to the uses listed in division (D)(1)
above;
         (b)   Extraction and storage of sand, gravel and other materials;
         (c)   Marinas, boat rentals, docks, piers, wharves and water control
structures;
         (d)   Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines and
pipelines;
         (e)   Storage yards for equipment, machinery or materials;
         (f)   Placement of fill or construction of fences;
         (g)   Recreational vehicles either on individual lots of record or in
existing or new subdivisions or commercial or condominium type campgrounds,
subject to the exemptions and provisions of the section in this chapter related
to manufactured homes, manufactured home parks and placement of recreational
vehicles; and
         (h)   Structural works for flood control such as levees, dikes and
floodwalls constructed to any height where the intent is to protect individual
structures and levees or dikes where the intent is to protect agricultural
crops for a frequency flood event equal to or less than the ten-year frequency
flood event.
      (4)   Standards for floodway conditional uses.
         (a)   No structure (temporary or permanent), fill (including fill for
roads and levees), deposit, obstruction, storage of materials or equipment, or
other uses may be allowed as a conditional use that will cause any increase in
the stage of the 100-year or regional flood or cause an increase in flood
damages in the reach or reaches affected.
         (b)   All floodway conditional uses shall be subject to the procedures
and standards in division (D)(3) above.
         (c)   The conditional use shall be permissible in the underlying
zoning district.
         (d)   1.   Fill, dredge, spoil and all other similar materials
deposited or stored in the floodplain shall be protected from erosion by
vegetative cover, mulching, riprap or other acceptable material.
            2.   Dredge spoil sits and sand and gravel operations shall not be
allowed in the floodway unless a long-term site development plan is submitted
and approved. The plan shall include an erosion/sedimentation prevention
element to the plan.
            3.   As an alternative, and consistent with division (D)(4)(d)2.
above, dredge spoil and sand and gravel operations may allow temporary, on-site
storage of fill or other materials which would cause an increase in the stage
of the 100-year or regional flood but only after the Planning Commission has
received an appropriate plan that assures the removal of the materials from the
floodway based upon the flood warning time available. A conditional use permit
granted under this section must be title registered with the property in the
office of the County Recorder. It is the responsibility of the property owner
to record a conditional use permit.
         (e)   1.   Accessory structures shall not be designed or used for
human habitation.
            2.   Accessory structures, if permitted, shall be constructed and
placed on the building site so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the flow
of flood waters:
               a.   Whenever possible, structures shall be constructed with the
longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of the flood flow; and
               b.   So far as practicable, structures shall be placed
approximately on the same flood flow lines as those of adjoining structures.
            3.   Accessory structures shall be elevated on fill or structurally
dry flood-proofed in accordance with FP-1 or FP-2 flood-proofing
classifications in the state’s Building Code. As an alternative, an accessory
structure may be flood-proofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 flood-proofing
classification in the state’s Building Code provided the accessory structure
constitutes a minimal investment, does not exceed 500 square feet in size, and
for a detached garages, the detached garage must be used solely for the parking
of vehicles and limited storage. All flood-proofed accessory structures must
meet the following additional standards, as appropriate.
               a.   The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure and shall be designed
to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
               b.   Any mechanical and utility equipment in a structure must be
elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or properly
flood-proofed.
               c.   To allow for the equalization of hydrostatic pressure,
there must be a minimum of two “automatic” openings in the outside walls of the
structure having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding. There must be openings on at
least two sides of the structure and the bottom of all openings must be no
higher than one foot above the lowest adjacent grade to the structure. Using
human intervention to open a garage door prior to flooding will not satisfy
this requirement for automatic openings.
         (f)   1.   The storage or processing of materials, that are, in time
of flooding, flammable, explosive or potentially injurious to human, animal or
plant life is prohibited.
            2.   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if
readily removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning
and in accordance with a plan approved by the Planning Commission.
         (g)   Structural works for flood control that will not change the
course, current or cross-section of protected wetlands or public waters shall
be subject to the provisions of M.S. Ch. 103G, as it may be amended from time
to time. Community-wide structural works for flood control intended to remove
areas form the regulatory flood plan shall not be allowed in the floodway.
         (h)   A levee, dike or floodwall constructed in the floodway shall not
cause an increase in the 100-year or regional flood and the technical analysis
must assume equal conveyance or storage loss on both sides of a stream.
   (E)   Flood Fringe District.
      (1)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses shall be those uses of land or
structures listed as permitted uses in the underlying zoning district(s). All
permitted uses shall comply with the standards for Flood Fringe uses listed
within this section.
      (2)   Standards for flood fringe permitted uses.
         (a)   All structures, including accessory structures, must be elevated
on fill so that the lowest floor, including the basement floor, is at or above
the regulatory flood protection elevation. The finished fill elevation for
structures shall be no lower than one foot above the regulatory flood
protection elevation and the fill shall extend at such elevation at least 15
feet beyond the outside limits of the structure erected thereon.
         (b)   As an alternative to elevation on fill, accessory structures
that constitute a minimal investment and that do not exceed 500 square feet for
the outside dimension at ground level may be internally flood-proofed in
accordance with this section.
         (c)   The cumulative placement of fill where at any one time in excess
of 1,000 cubic yards of fill is located on the parcel shall be allowable only
as a conditional use, unless the fill is specifically intended to elevate a
structure in accordance with this subpart.
         (d)   The storage of any materials or equipment shall be elevated on
fill to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
         (e)   The provisions of division (E)(5) below shall apply.
      (3)   Conditional uses. Any structure that is not elevated on fill or
flood-proofed in accordance with division (E)(2) above and/or any uses that do
not comply with the standards of division (E)(5) below shall only be allowable
as a conditional use permit. An application for a conditional use shall be
subject to the standards and criteria and evaluation procedures specified in
divisions (D)(5) above and (E)(4) below.
      (4)   Standards for flood fringe conditional uses.
         (a)   1.   Alternative elevation methods other than the use of fill
may be utilized to elevate a structure’s lowest floor above the regulatory
flood protection elevation. These alternative methods may include the use of
stilts, pilings, parallel walls and the like or above grade, enclosed areas
such as crawl spaces or tuck under garages. The base or floor of an enclosed
area shall be considered above grade and not a structure’s basement or lowest
floor if:
               a.   The enclosed area is above-grade on at least one side of
the structure;
               b.   It is designed to internally flood and is constructed with
flood resistant materials; and
               c.   It is used solely for the parking of vehicles, building
access or storage.
            2.   The above-noted alternative elevation methods are subject to
the following additional standards.
               a.   Design and certification. The structure’s design and as-
built condition must be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect as being in compliance with the general design standards of the
state’s Building Code and, specifically, that all electrical, heating,
ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service
facilities must be at or above the regulatory floodplain elevation or be
designed to prevent flood water from entering or accumulating within these
components during times of flooding.
               b.   Specific standards for above-grade, enclosed areas. Above-
grade, fully enclosed areas such as crawl spaces or tuck under garages must be
designed to internally flood and the design plans must stipulate:
                  i.   A minimum of “automatic” openings in the wall where
internal flooding is to be used as flood-proofing technique. There shall be a
minimum of two openings on at least two sides of the structure and the bottom
of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above grade. The automatic
openings shall have a minimum net area of not less than one square inch for
every square foot subject to flooding unless a registered professional engineer
or architect certifies that a smaller net area would suffice. The automatic
openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, entry and exit of flood
waters without any form of human intervention; and
                  ii.   The enclosed area will be designed of flood resistant
materials in accordance with the FP-3 and FP-4 classifications in the state’s
Building Code and shall be used solely for building access, parking of vehicles
or storage.
         (b)   Basements, as defined in §
155.03 of this chapter, shall be subject to the following.
            1.   Residential basement construction shall not be allowed below
the regulatory floodplain elevation.
            2.   Non-residential basements may be allowed below the regulatory
flood protection elevation; provided, the basement is structurally dry flood-
proofed in accordance with division (E)(4) below.
            3.   All areas of non-residential structures, including basements
to be placed below the regulatory flood protection elevation, shall be flood-
proofed in accordance with the structurally dry flood-proofing classifications
in the FP-1 or FP-2 flood-proofing classification in the state’s Building Code
and this shall require making the structure water-tight with the walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effects of buoyancy. Structures flood-proofed to the FP-3 and FP-
4 classification shall not be permitted.
            4.   When at any one time more than 1,000 cubic yards of fill or
other similar material is located on a parcel for such activities as on-site
storage, landscaping, sand and gravel operations, landfills, roads, dredge
spoil, disposal or construction of flood control works, an erosion/
sedimentation control plan must be submitted unless the community is enforcing
a state approved shoreland management ordinance. In the absence of a state
approved shoreland ordinance, the plan must clearly specify methods to be used
to stabilize fill on site for a flood event at a minimum of the 100-year or
regional flood event. The plan must be prepared and certified by a registered
professional engineer or other qualified individual acceptable to the Planning
Commission. The plan may incorporate alternative procedures for the removal of
the material from the floodplain if adequate flood warning time exists.
            5.   a.   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time
of flooding, flammable, explosive or potentially injurious to human, animal or
plant life is prohibited.
               b.   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if
readily removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning
and in accordance with a plan approved by the Planning Commission.
            6.   The standards in division (E)(5) below shall also apply.
      (5)   Standards for all flood fringe uses.
         (a)   All new principal structures must have vehicular access at or
above an elevation not more than two feet below the regulatory floodplain
elevation. If a variance to this requirement is granted, the Board of
Adjustment must specify limitations on the period of use or occupancy of the
structure for times of flooding and only after determining that adequate flood
warning time and local flood emergency response procedures exist.
         (b)   Commercial accessory land uses, such as yards, railroad tracks
and parking lots may be at elevations lower than the regulatory floodplain
elevation. However, a permit for the facilities to be used by the employees or
the general public shall not be granted in the absence of a flood warning
system that provides adequate time for evacuation if the area would be
inundated to a depth and veloCity such that when multiplying the depth (in
feet) times veloCity (in feet per second) the product number exceeds four upon
occurrence of the regional flood.
         (c)   For manufacturing and industrial uses, measures shall be taken
to minimize interference with normal plant operations, especially along streams
having protracted flood durations. Certain accessory land uses, such as yards
and parking lots, may be at a lower elevation subject to the requirements set
out in division (E)(5)(b) above. In considering permit applications, due
consideration shall be given to needs of an industry whose business requires
that it be located in floodplain areas.
         (d)   Fill shall be properly compacted and the slopes shall be
properly protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other acceptable
method. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established criteria
for removing the special flood hazard designation for certain structures
properly elevated on fill above the 100-year flood elevation. FEMA’s
requirements incorporate specific fill compaction and side slope protection
standards for multi-structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should
be investigated prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of
special flood hazard area designation will be requested.
         (e)   Floodplain developments shall not adversely affect the hydraulic
capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary watercourse
or drainage system where a floodway or other encroachment limit has not been
specified on the official zoning map.
         (f)   Standards for recreational vehicles are contained herein.
         (g)   All manufactured homes must be securely anchored in an
adequately anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse and
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
forces.
   (F)   General Floodplain District.
      (1)   Permissible uses.
         (a)   The permitted uses listed in the Floodway District, division (D)
(1) above, shall be permitted uses in the General Floodplain District.
         (b)   All other uses shall be subject to the floodway/fringe criteria
pursuant to division (F)(2) below. Division (D) above shall apply if the
proposed use is in the Floodway District and division (E) above shall apply if
the proposed use is in the Flood Fringe District.
      (2)   Procedures for floodway and flood fringe determination within the
General Floodplain District.
         (a)   Upon receipt of an application for a permit or other approval
within the General Floodplain District, the applicant shall be required to
furnish such of the following information that is deemed necessary by the
Zoning Administrator for the determination of the regulatory flood protection
elevation and whether the proposed use is within the Floodway or Flood Fringe
District:
            1.   Typical valley cross-sections showing the channel of the
stream, elevation of land areas adjoining each side of the channel, cross-
sectional areas to be occupied by the proposed development and high water
information;
            2.   Plan (surface view) showing elevations or contours of the
ground, pertinent structures, fill or storage elevations, the size, location
and spatial arrangement of all proposed and existing structures on the site,
and the location and elevation of streets;
            3.   Photographs showing existing land uses, vegetation upstream
and downstream and soil types; and
            4.   Profile showing the slope of the bottom of the channel or flow
line of the stream for at least 500 feet in either direction from the proposed
development.
         (b)   The applicant shall be responsible to submit one copy of the
above information to a designated engineer or other expert person or agency for
technical assistance in determining whether the proposed use is in the Floodway
or Flood Fringe District and to determine the regulatory flood protection
elevation. Procedures consistent with Minn. Rules parts 6120.5000 through
6120.6200 and 44 C.F.R. part 65 shall be followed in this expert evaluation.
The designated engineer or expert is strongly encouraged to discuss the
proposed technical evaluation methodology with the respective Department of
Natural Resources’ area hydrologist prior to commencing the analysis. The
designated engineer or expert shall:
            1.   Estimate the peak discharge of the regional flood;
            2.   Calculate the water surface profile of the regional flood
based upon a hydraulic analysis of the stream channel and overbank areas; and
            3.   Compute the floodway necessary to convey or store the regional
flood without increasing flood states more than one-half foot. A lesser stage
increase than one-half foot shall be required if, as a result of the additional
stage increase, increased flood damages would result. An equal degree of
encroachment on both sides of the stream within the reach shall be assumed in
computing floodway boundaries.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall present the technical evaluation
and findings of the designated engineer or expert to the Planning Commission.
The Planning Commission must formally accept the technical evaluation and the
recommended Floodway and/or Flood Fringe District boundary or deny the permit
application. The Planning Commission, prior to official action, may submit the
application and all supporting date and analyses to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, the Department of Natural Resources and/or the Planning
Commission for review and comment. Once the Floodway and Flood Fringe District
boundaries have been determined, the Planning Commission shall refer the matter
back to the Zoning Administrator who shall process the permit application
consistent with the applicable provisions of this section.
   (G)   Subdivisions.
      (1)   Review criteria. No land shall be subdivided that is unsuitable for
the reason of flooding, inadequate drainage, water supply or sewage treatment
facilities. All lots within the floodplain districts shall be able to contain a
building site outside the Floodway District at or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation. All subdivisions shall have water and sewage treatment
facilities that comply with the provisions of this chapter and have road access
both to the subdivision and to the individual building sites no lower than two
feet below the regulatory flood protection elevation. For all subdivisions in
the floodplain, including the Floodway and the Flood Fringe boundaries, the
regulatory flood protection elevation and the required elevation of all access
roads shall be clearly labeled on all required subdivision drawings and
platting documents.
      (2)   Floodway/flood fringe determination in the Floodplain Districts. In
the Floodplain Districts, applicants shall provide the information required
herein to determine the 100-year flood elevation, the Floodway and the Flood
Fringe District boundaries and the regulatory flood protection elevation for
the subdivision site.
      (3)   Removal of special flood hazard area designation. The Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established criteria for removing the
special flood hazard designation for certain structures property elevated on
fill above the 100-year flood elevation. FEMA’s requirements incorporate
specific fill compaction and side slope protection standards for multi-
structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should be investigated
prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of special flood hazard
area designation will be requested.
   (H)   Public utilities, railroads, roads and bridges.
      (1)   Public utilities. All public utilities and facilities such as gas,
electrical, sewer and water supply systems to be located in the floodplain
shall be flood-proofed in accordance with the state’s Building Code or elevated
above the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (2)   Public transportation facilities. Elevation to the regulatory flood
protection elevation shall be provided where failure or interruption of these
transportation facilities would result in danger to the public health or safety
or where the facilities are essential to the orderly functioning of the area.
Minor or auxiliary roads or railroads may be constructed at a lower elevation
where failure or interruption of transportation services would not endanger the
public health or safety.
      (3)   On-site sewage treatment and water supply systems.
         (a)   Where public utilities are not provided:
            1.   On-site water supply systems must be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems; and
            2.   New or replacement on-site sewage treatment systems must be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems
and discharges from the systems into flood waters and they shall not be subject
to impairment or contamination during times of flooding.
         (b)   Any sewage treatment system designed in accordance with the
state’s current statewide standards or on-site sewage treatment systems shall
be determined to be in compliance with this chapter.
   (I)   Manufactured homes and manufactured home parks and placement of
recreational vehicles.
      (1)   New manufactured home parks and expansions to existing manufactured
home parks shall be subject to the provisions placed on subdivisions in
division (G) above.
      (2)   (a)   The placement of new or replacement manufactured homes in
existing manufactured home parks or on individual lots of record that are
located in the floodplain districts will be treated as a new structure and may
be placed only if elevated in compliance with division (F) above. If vehicular
road access for pre-existing manufactured home parks is not provided in
accordance with division (E)(5) above, then replacement manufactured homes will
not be allowed until the property owner(s) develops a flood warning emergency
plan acceptable to the Planning Commission.
         (b)   All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse and
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
forces.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles that do not meet the exemption criteria
specified in division (I)(2)(b) above shall be subject to the provisions of
this section and as specifically spelled out in divisions (I)(3)(c) and (I)(3)
(d) below.
         (a)   Exemption. Recreational vehicles are exempt from the provisions
of this section if they are placed in any of the areas listed in division (I)
(3)(b) below and further they meet the following criteria:
            1.   Have a current license required for highway use;
            2.   Are highway ready, meaning on wheels or the internal jacking
system, are attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
commonly used in campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks and the
recreational vehicle has no permanent structural type additions attached to it;
and
            3.   The recreational vehicle and associated use must be
permissible in any pre-existing, underlying zoning use district.
         (b)   Areas exempted for placement of recreational vehicles.
            1.   Individual lots or parcels of record;
            2.   Existing commercial recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds;
and
            3.   Existing condominium type associations.
         (c)   Losing exemption. Recreational vehicles exempted by this section
lose this exemption when development occurs on the parcel exceeding $500 for a
structural addition to the recreational vehicle or exceeding $500 for an
accessory structure such as a garage or storage building. The recreational
vehicle and all accessory structures will then be treated as a new structure
and shall be subject to the elevation/flood-proofing requirements and the use
of land restrictions specified in divisions (D) and (E) above. There shall be
no development or improvement on the parcel or attachment to the recreational
vehicle that hinders the removal of the recreational vehicle to a flood-free
location should flooding occur.
         (d)   New parks or campgrounds. New commercial recreational vehicle
parks or campgrounds and new residential type subdivisions and condominium
associations and the expansion of any existing similar use exceeding five
dwelling sites shall be subject to the following.
            1.   Any new or replacement recreational vehicle will be allowed in
the Floodway or Flood Fringe Districts; provided, the recreational vehicle and
its contents are placed on fill above the regulatory flood protection elevation
and proper elevated road access to the site exists in accordance with division
(E)(5) above. No fill placed in the floodway to meet the arrangements of this
section shall increase flood stages of the 100-year or regional flood.
            2.   Any new or replacement recreational vehicles not meeting the
criteria of division (I)(3)(d)1. above may, as an alternative, be allowed as a
conditional use if in accordance with the following provisions and the
provisions of division (D)(4) above. The applicant must submit an emergency
plan for the safe evacuation of all vehicles and people during the 100-year
flood. The plan shall be prepared by a registered engineer or other qualified
individual, shall demonstrate that adequate time and personnel exist to carry
out the evacuation, and shall demonstrate the provisions hereof will be met.
All attendant sewage and water facilities for new or replacement recreational
vehicles must be protected or constructed so as not to be impaired or
contaminated during times of flooding in accordance with division (H)(3) above.
   (J)   Administration.
      (1)   Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator or other official
designated by the Planning Commission shall administer and enforce this
section. If the Zoning Administrator finds a violation of the provisions of
this section, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the person responsible for
the violation in accordance with the procedures stated in division (L) below.
      (2)   Permit requirements.
         (a)   Permit required. A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator in
conformity with the provisions of this section shall be secured prior to the
erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance
and repair) or alteration of any building, structure or portion thereof; prior
to the use or change of use of building, structure or land; prior to the
construction of a dam, fence or on-site septic system; prior to the change or
extension of a non-conforming use; prior to the repair of a structure that has
been damaged by flood, fire, tornado or any other source; and prior to the
placement of fill, excavation of materials, or the storage of materials or
equipment within the floodplain.
         (b)   Application for permit. Application for a permit shall be made
in duplicate to the Zoning Administrator on forms furnished by the Zoning
Administrator and shall include the following where applicable: plans in
duplicate drawn to scale, showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the lot; existing or proposed structures, fill or storage of
materials; and the location of the foregoing in relation to the stream channel.
         (c)   State and federal permits. Prior to granting a permit or
processing an application for a conditional or interim use permit or variance,
the Zoning Administrator shall determine that the applicant has obtained all
necessary state and federal permits.
         (d)   Certificate of zoning compliance for a new, altered or non-
conforming use. It shall be unlawful to use, occupy or permit the use or
occupancy of any building or premises or part thereof hereafter created,
erected, changed, converted, altered or enlarged in its use or structure until
a certificate of zoning compliance shall have been issued by the Zoning
Administrator stating that the use of the building or land conforms to the
requirements of this chapter.
         (e)   Construction and use to be as provided on application, plans,
permits, variances and certificates of zoning compliance. Permits, variances,
conditional use permits, interim use permits or certificates of zoning
compliance issued on the basis of approved plans and applications authorize
only the use, arrangement and construction set forth in the approved plans and
applications, and no other use, arrangement or construction. Any use,
arrangement or construction at variance with that authorized shall be deemed a
violation of this section and punishable as provided by division (L) below.
         (f)   Certification. The applicant shall be required to submit
certification by a registered professional engineer, registered architect or
registered land surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were
accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Flood-proofing
measures shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or registered
architect.
         (g)   Record of first flood elevation. The Zoning Administrator shall
maintain a record of the elevation of the lowest flood (including basement) of
all new structures and alterations or additions to existing structures in the
floodplains. The Zoning Administrator shall also maintain a record of the
elevation to which structures or alterations and additions to structures are
flood-proofed.
         (h)   Notifications for watercourse alterations. The Zoning
Administrator shall notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and
the Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources prior to the
authorizing any alteration or relocation of a watercourse. If the applicant has
applied for a permit to work in the beds of public waters pursuant to M.S. Ch.
103G, as it may be amended from time to time, this shall suffice as adequate
public notice to the Commissioner of Natural Resources. A copy of said
notification shall also be submitted to the Chicago Regional Office of the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
         (i)   Notification to FEMA when physical changes increase or decrease
the 100-year flood elevation. As soon as is practicable, but not later than six
months after the date such supporting information becomes available, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the Chicago Regional Office of FEMA of the changes
by submitting a copy of said technical or scientific report.
      (3)   Board of Adjustment.
         (a)   Rules. The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for the conduct
of business and may exercise all of the powers conferred on such boards by
state law.
         (b)   Administrative review. The Board shall hear and decide appeals
where it is alleged there is an error in any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the Zoning Administrator in the enforcement and
administration of this section.
         (c)   Variances. The Board of Adjustment may authorize upon appeal in
specific cases such relief or variances from the terms of this section as will
not be contrary to the public interest and only for those circumstances such as
hardship, practical difficulties or circumstances unique to the property under
consideration, as provided for in the municipal planning enabling legislation.
In the granting of the variance, the Board of Adjustment shall clearly identify
in writing the specific conditions that existed consistent with the criteria
specified in this section, any other ARD zoning regulations, and in the
municipal planning legislation that justified granting the variance. No
variance shall have the effect of allowing in any district uses prohibited in
that district, permit a lower degree of flood protection than the regulatory
flood protection elevation for the particular area, or permit standards lower
than those required by law. The following additional variance criteria of the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) must be satisfied.
            1.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated regulatory
floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would
result.
            2.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
               a.   Showing of good and sufficient cause;
               b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
               c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increase flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of
the public or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
            3.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         (d)   Hearings. Upon filing with the Board of Adjustment of an appeal
from a decision of the Zoning Administrator, or an application for a variance,
the Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for a hearing and give due
notice to the parties in interest as specified by law. The Board of Adjustment
shall submit by mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources a copy of the
application for proposed variances sufficiently in advance so that the
Commissioner will receive at least ten days notice of the hearing.
         (e)   Decisions. The Board of Adjustment shall arrive at a decision on
the appeal or variance within the time required by law. In passing upon an
appeal, the Board of Adjustment may, so long as the action is in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or
modify the order, requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning
Administrator or other public official. The Board shall make its decision in
writing setting forth the findings of fact and reasons for its decisions. In
granting a variance, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe appropriate
conditions and safeguards as those specified in division (J)(3)(f) below, which
are in conformity with the purposes of this chapter. Violations of such
conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which the
variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this chapter punishable
hereunder. A copy of all decisions granting variances shall be forwarded by
mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten days of the action.
         (f)   Appeals. Appeals from any decision of the Board of Adjustment
may be made as specified in this chapter.
         (g)   Flood insurance notice and record keeping.
            1.   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant for a
variance that:
               a.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below
the base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance; and
               b.   Such construction below the 100-year or regional flood
level increases risk to life and property.
            2.   The notification shall be maintained with a record of all
variance actions. The Zoning Administrator will maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report the
variances issued in its annual or biennial report, as required, to the
Administrator of the National Flood Insurance Program.
      (4)   Conditional uses. The Planning Commission shall hear and decide
applications for conditional uses permissible under this section. Applications
shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator who shall forward the
application to the Planning Commission for consideration.
         (a)   Hearings. Upon filing of an application for a conditional use
permit with the Zoning Administrator, the Zoning Administrator shall submit a
copy of the proposed conditional use permit application by mail to the
Commissioner of Natural Resources sufficiently in advance so that the
Commissioner will receive at least ten days’ notice of the hearing.
         (b)   Decision. The Planning Commission shall take final action on the
proposed conditional use permit in the time period required by law. In granting
a conditional use permit, the Planning Commission shall prescribe appropriate
conditions and safeguards, in addition to those specified in division (J)(4)(e)
below, that are in conformity with the provisions of this section. Violations
of the conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which the
conditional use permit is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this section
punishable under division (L) below. A copy of all decisions granting
conditional use permits shall be forwarded by mail to the Commissioner of
Natural Resources within ten days of the action.
         (c)   Procedures to be followed by the Planning Commission in passing
on conditional use permit applications within all Floodplain Districts.
            1.   The applicant shall furnish such of the following information
and additional information as deemed necessary by the Planning Commission for
determining the suitability of the particular site for the proposed use:
               a.   Plans in triplicate drawn to scale showing the nature,
location, dimensions and elevations of the lot, existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, flood-proofing measures and the
relationship of the above to the location of the stream channel; and
               b.   Specifications for building construction and materials,
flood-proofing, filing, dredging, grading, channel improvement, storage of
materials, water supply and sanitary facilities.
            2.   The Zoning Administrator shall transmit one copy of the
information described above to a designated engineer or other expert person or
agency for technical assistance, where necessary, in evaluating a proposed
project in relation to flood heights and velocities, the seriousness of flood
damage to the use, the adequacy of the plans for protection and other technical
matters. The cost of such review shall be borne by the applicant.
            3.   Based upon the technical evaluation of the designated engineer
or expert, the Planning Commission shall determine the specific flood hazard at
the site and evaluate the suitability of the proposed use in relation to the
flood hazard.
         (d)   Factors upon which the decision of the Planning Commission shall
be based. In passing upon conditional use permit applications, the Planning
Commission shall consider all relevant factors specified in other sections of
this section, and the following:
            1.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights
or velocities caused by encroachments;
            2.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others or they may block bridges, culverts or other
hydraulic structures;
            3.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the
ability of these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary
conditions;
            4.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents
to flood damage and the effect of the damage on the individual owner;
            5.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the community;
            6.   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location;
            7.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to
flooding for the proposed use;
            8.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing
development and development anticipated in the foreseeable future;
            9.   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan
and floodplain management program for the area;
            10.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
            11.   The expected heights, veloCity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site; and
            12.   Such other factors that are relevant to the purposes of this
section.
         (e)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits. Upon
consideration of the factors listed above the purpose of this division (J)(4)
(e), the Planning Commission shall attach conditions to the granting of
conditional use permits as it deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this
section. The conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
            1.   Modification of waste treatment and water supply facilities;
            2.   Limitation on period of use, occupancy and operation;
            3.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties and deed
restrictions;
            4.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications,
compensatory storage, dikes, levees or other protective measures; and
            5.   Flood-proofing measures, in accordance with the state’s
Building Code and this section. The applicant shall submit a plan or document
certified by a registered engineer or architect that the flood-proofing
measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection elevation and
associated flood factors for the particular area.
      (5)   Interim use permits. The process and procedures for interim use
permits shall be the same as that for conditional use permits.
   (K)   Non-conforming uses. A structure, or the use of a structure or
premises, that was lawful before the passage or amendment of this section, but
which it not in conformity with the provisions of this section, may be
continued subject to the following conditions. Historic structures, as defined
in this chapter, shall be subject to the provisions of this section.
      (1)   No such use shall be expanded, enlarged or altered in a way that
increases the non-conformity.
      (2)   Any structural alteration or addition to a non-conforming structure
or non-conforming use that would result in increasing the flood damage
potential of that structure or use shall be protected to the regulatory flood
protection elevation in accordance with any of the elevation on fill or flood-
proofing techniques (i.e., FP-1 through FP-4 flood-proofing classification)
allowable in the state’s Building Code, except as further restricted in
divisions (K)(3) and (K)(4) below.
      (3)   The cost of any structural alteration or additions to any non-
conforming structure over the life of this structure shall not exceed 50% of
the market value of the structure unless the conditions of this section are
satisfied. The cost of all structural alterations and additions constructed
since the adoption of the township’s initial floodplain controls must be
calculated into today’s current cost which will include all costs such as
construction materials and a reasonable cost placed on all manpower or labor.
If the current cost of all previous and proposed alterations and additions
exceeds 50% of the current market value of the structure, then the structure
must meet the standards of divisions (K)(4) and (K)(5) below for new
structures, depending upon whether the structure is in the Floodway or Flood
Fringe, respectively.
      (4)   If any non-conforming use is discontinued for 12 consecutive
months, any future use of the building premises shall conform to this section.
The Assessor shall notify the Zoning Administrator in writing of instances of
non-conforming uses that have been discontinued for a period of 12 months, if
the information is available.
      (5)   If any non-conforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
or substantially damaged as defined in this section, it shall not be
reconstructed, except in conformity with the provisions of this section. The
applicable provisions for establishing new uses or new structures herein will
apply depending upon whether the use or structure is in the Floodway District,
Flood Fringe District or General Floodplain District respectively.
      (6)   If a substantial improvement, as defined in this chapter, occurs,
from any combination of a building addition to the outside dimensions of an
existing building or a rehabilitation, reconstruction, alteration or other
improvement to the inside dimensions of an existing non-conforming building,
then the non-conforming building must meet the requirement hereof for new
structures, depending upon whether the structure is in the Floodway or Flood
Fringe Districts, respectively.
   (L)   Penalties for violation.
      (1)   Violation of the provisions of this section or failure to comply
with any of the requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances, conditional use or interim
use permits) shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as defined
by law.
      (2)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Planning Commission from
taking other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
The actions may include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   In responding to a suspected ordinance violation, the Zoning
Administrator, under the direction of the Planning Commission, may utilize the
full array of enforcement actions available to it including, but not limited
to, prosecution and fine, injunctions, after-the-fact permits, orders for
corrective measures or a request to the National Flood Insurance Program for
denial of flood insurance availability to the guilty party. The community will
act in good faith to enforce those official controls and to correct ordinance
violations to the extent possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in
the National Flood Insurance Program;
         (b)   When an ordinance violation is either discovered by or brought
to the attention of the Zoning Administrator, the Zoning Administrator shall
immediately investigate the situation and document the nature and extent of the
violation of this section. As soon as it is reasonably possible, this
information shall be submitted to the appropriate Department of Natural
Resources and Federal Emergency Management Agency Regional Office, along with
the Planning Commission’s plan of action to correct the violation to the degree
possible;
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the suspected party of the
requirements of this section and all other official controls and the nature and
extent of the suspected violations of these controls. If the structure and/or
use is under construction or development, the Zoning Administrator may order
the construction or development immediately halted until a proper permit or
approval is granted by the Planning Commission. If the construction or
development is already completed, then the Zoning Administrator may either:
            1.   Issue an order identifying the corrective actions that must be
made within a specified time period to bring the use or structure into
compliance with the official controls; or
            2.   Notify the responsible party to apply for an after-the-fact
permit and/or development approval within a specified period of time not to
exceed 30 days.
         (d)   If the responsible party does not appropriately respond to the
Zoning Administrator within a specified period of time, each additional day
that lapses shall constitute an additional violation of this section and shall
be prosecuted accordingly. The Zoning Administrator shall also, upon the lapse
of the specified response period, notify the landowner to restore the land to
the condition that existing prior to the violation of this section.
   (M)   Amendments. The floodplain designation on the official zoning map
shall not be removed from the floodplain unless it can be shown that the
designation is in error or that the area has been filled to or above the
elevation of the regulatory flood protection elevation and is contiguous to
lands outside the floodplain. Special exceptions to this rule may be permitted
by the Commissioner of Natural Resources if the Commissioner determines that,
through other measures, lands are adequately protected for the intended use.
All amendments to this section, including amendments to the official zoning map
that relate to the floodplain districts, must be submitted to and approved by
the Commissioner of Natural Resources prior to adoption. Changes in the
official zoning map that relate to the floodplain districts must meet the
Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) technical conditions and criteria
and must receive prior FEMA approval before adoption. The Commissioner of
Natural Resources must be given ten days’ written notice of all hearings to
consider an amendment to this section and the notice shall include a draft of
the amendment or technical study under consideration.
§ 155.12 WS, WILD AND SCENIC RIVER DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of the Cannon River Wild and Scenic
River District is:
      (1)   Conserve and protect the natural scenic values and resources of the
Cannon River and to maintain a high standard of environmental quality;
      (2)   Regulate the area of a lot and the length of bluff land and water
frontage suitable for building sites to reduce the effects of overcrowding and
provide ample space on lots for sanitary facilities;
      (3)   Regulate the setbacks of structures and sewage treatment systems
from bluff lines and shorelines;
      (4)   Regulate alterations of then natural vegetation and topography;
      (5)   Maintain property values and prevent poorly planned development;
      (6)   Preserve natural beauty and quietude;
      (7)   Prevent pollution;
      (8)   Designate land use districts along the bluff land and shoreline of
the Cannon River; and
      (9)   Protect and preserve the Cannon River, its tributaries and its
adjacent land that possesses scenic values of the Cannon River by ensuring
development within this river corridor is consistent with the Wild, Scenic and
Recreational Statewide Standards (Minn. Rules parts 6105.0010 through
6105.0250; Minn. Rules parts 6105.1550 through 6105.1700) and the Scenic Rivers
Act (M.S. §§ 103F.301 through 103F.345).
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of this section shall include all
lands designated within the Cannon River land use district in the ARD based on
upon the Cannon River Management Plan, Minn. Rules part 6105.1680 and are
delineated on the official zoning map of the ARD.
      (2)   Compliance. The use of any land within the Cannon River Wild and
Scenic River District overlay district; the size and shape of lots; the use and
location of structures on lots; the installation and maintenance of water
supply and sewage treatment systems; the filling, grading, dredging of any
river area; the cutting of vegetation or alteration of the natural topography
within the district; and the subdivision of land shall be in full compliance
with the terms of this section and other applicable regulations. Permits from
the Zoning Administrator are required by this section and this division (B) for
the construction of structures, public or private water supply and sewage
treatment systems, the upgrading and filing of the natural topography and
erection of signs within the Cannon River Wild and Scenic River Overlay Land
Use District.
   (C)   Rules.
      (1)   It is not intended by this section to repeal, abrogate or impair
any existing easement, covenants, deed restrictions or land use controls. Where
this section imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this section shall
prevail. In case of conflict between a provision of the state’s Wild, Scenic
and Recreational River Statutes and statewide standards and criteria and some
other law of the state or provisions of existing ordinances, the more
protective provision shall apply.
      (2)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
section shall be held to be minimum requirements, and shall not be deemed a
limitation or repeal of any powers or rights granted by state statutes.
      (3)   The provisions of this section shall be severable, and the
invalidity of any paragraph, subparagraph or division thereof shall not make
void any other paragraph, subparagraph, division or any other part. If any
court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid any provision of this
section or the application of this section to a particular property, building
or other structure, the judgment shall not affect any other provision of this
section or any other property, building or structure not specifically included
in the judgment.
      (4)   The word “shall” is mandatory, not permissive. All distance, unless
otherwise specified, shall be measured horizontally.
      (5)   For the purposes of this section, words and terms are as defined in
§
155.03 of this chapter.
   (D)   Overlay Land Use District provisions.
      (1)   Districts.
         (a)   In order to preserve and protect the Cannon River and its
adjacent lands that possess outstanding scenic, recreational, natural,
historical, scientific and similar values, the Cannon River in Bridgewater
Township has been given a Wild and Scenic Rivers Classification and the uses
and classification the river and its adjacent lands are hereby designated by
overland land uses zoning districts, the boundaries of which are based on the
Cannon River Management Plan and Minn. Rules part 6105.1680.
         (b)   The boundaries of the Cannon River Wild and Scenic Overlay
District are shown on the official zoning map of the ARD, which is made a part
of this chapter and is on file with the Zoning Administrator. In case of
conflict between the map and the property descriptions in the Cannon River
rule, the more restrictive shall prevail.
         (c)   If land is annexed, incorporated or in any other way transferred
to another jurisdiction, a moratorium shall exist on all construction, grading
and filling, and vegetative cutting until this section is amended. The amended
section shall meet the provisions of the plan that applied to the land before
the transfer.
      (2)   Purpose. The purpose of establishing standards and criteria for the
management of the Cannon River Wild and Scenic River Overlay District shall be
to preserve and protect existing and natural, scenic, historical, scientific
and recreational values, to reduce the effect of overcrowding and poorly
planned development of adjacent lands, to prevent pollution, to preserve
natural beauty and quietude, to maintain proper relationships between various
land use types and to prohibit new uses that are inconsistent with the
statewide standards and criteria for Wild and Scenic Rivers, Minn. Rules parts
6105.0010 through 6105.0250.
      (3)   Permitted, conditional and interim uses.
         (a)   Permitted, conditional and interim uses are as specified in the
table in §
155.06 of this chapter. All other uses shall be considered prohibited, except
for the following governmental and public activities:
            1.   Governmental campgrounds subject to management plan
specifications;
            2.   Other governmental open space recreational uses subject to
management plan specifications;
            3.   Government resource management for improving fish and wildlife
habitat; wildlife management areas; nature areas; and accessory roads;
            4.   Public access and trail access subject to management plan
specifications; and
            5.   Public access, road access with boat launching facilities
subject to management plan specifications.
         (b)   Permitted and conditional or interim uses may be combined on a
single parcel; provided that, each use meets the general, density, specific and
performance standards of this chapter and any other applicable provisions of
this chapter.
      (4)   Non-conforming uses. Uses that are prohibited but which are in
existence prior to adoption of this section shall be non-conforming uses. The
uses shall not be intensified, enlarged or expanded beyond the permitted or
delineated boundaries of the use or activity as stipulated in the most current
permit prior to the adoption of this chapter.
   (E)   Zoning dimensions.
      (1)   Minimum district dimensional requirements. The following chart sets
forth the minimum lot size and width, setbacks and other requirements in the
Cannon River Wild and Scenic River Overlay District:
Standard Minimum Requirements
Standard                                          Minimum Requirements
Building setback from ordinary high water level   100 feet
Building setback from top of bluff                30 feet
Controlled vegetative cutting area: setback from
ordinary high water level Setback from top of     100 feet 30 feet
bluff
Lot size and density
* There shall be no more than 1 dwelling unit per Minimum lot size is 2.5 acres
lot
Lot width at building line                        250 feet
Lot width at ordinary high water level            250 feet
Maximum structure height                          35 feet
On-site sewage treatment system setback from      75 feet
ordinary high water level
 
      (2)   Slopes. Structures shall not be located on slopes greater than 12%
unless the structures are screened from the river view with natural vegetation
where practicable, the sanitary provisions of this chapter are complied with,
and the building permit application can prove to the Zoning Administrator that
any potential erosion or sedimentation problems related to locating a structure
either do not exist or that adequate measures will be taken to prevent any of
these problems though special construction methods.
      (3)   Placement in floodways. No structures shall be placed in any
floodway. Structures proposed within a floodplain shall be consistent with
statewide standards and criteria for the management of floodplain areas of the
state (Minn. Rules parts 6120.5000 through 6120.6200) and division (K) below.
   (F)   Substandard lots.
      (1)   Lots of record in the office of the County Recorder on the
effective day of enactment of this chapter that do not meet the dimensional
requirements of this section shall be allowed as building sites; provided, the
proposed use is permitted in the land use district; the lot was in separate
ownership on the date of enactment of this section; all sanitary requirements
are complied with; and dimensional provisions are complied with to the greatest
extent possible.
      (2)   If, in a group of two or more contiguous lots under a single
ownership and any individual lot does not meet the minimum lot width
requirements of this section, the individual lot cannot be considered as a
separate parcel of land for purposes of sale or development, but must be
combined with adjacent lots under the same ownership so that the combination of
lots will equal one or more parcels of land, each meeting the lot width
requirements of this section.
   (G)   Substandard uses. All uses in existence prior to the effective date of
enactment or amendment of this chapter that are permitted uses within the
Cannon River land uses district, but do not meet the minimum lot area, setbacks
or other dimensional requirements of this section are substandard uses. All
substandard uses, except for substandard signs, shall be allowed to continue
subject to the following conditions and exceptions: any structural alteration
or addition to a substandard use that will increase the substandard dimension
shall not be allowed.
   (H)   Sanitary provisions; water supply. Any public or private supply of
water for domestic purposes must meet or exceed standards for water quality of
the state’s Department of Health and the state’s Pollution Control Agency and
local administrative procedures. Private wells must be located, constructed,
maintained and sealed in accordance with or in a more thorough manner than the
Water Well Construction Code of the state’s Department of Health.
   (I)   Sewage treatment.
      (1)   Sewage treatment. Any premises intended for human occupancy must be
provided with an adequate method of sewage treatment. Publicly-owned sewer
systems must be used where available. Where public systems are not available,
all private sewage treatment systems must meet or exceed applicable rules of
the state’s Department of Health, the state’s Pollution Control Agency,
specifically Minn. Rules Ch. 7080 for individual sewage treatment systems, the
standards of this section, and any other applicable standards of this chapter.
      (2)   Non-conforming sewage treatment systems.
         (a)   A non-conforming sewage treatment system not meeting the
requirements of this section must be upgraded, at a minimum, whenever a permit
or variance of any type is required for any improvement on, or use of, the
property.
         (b)   For the purposes of this provision, a sewage treatment system
shall not be considered non-conforming if the only deficiency is the sewage
treatment system’s improper setback from the ordinary high water level.
         (c)   All non-conforming sewage treatment systems shall be brought
into conformity or discontinued within five years of the date of enactment of
this chapter.
   (J)   Landscape alterations.
      (1)   Vegetative cutting.
         (a)   The vegetative cutting provisions in this section shall apply to
those areas specified in division (J)(2) below.
         (b)   The following general provisions apply within designated setback
areas.
            1.   Clear cutting, except for any authorized public services such
as roads and utilities, shall not be permitted.
            2.   Selective cutting of trees in excess of four inches in
diameter at four feet in height is permitted; provided, cutting is spaced in
several cutting operations, a continuous tree cover is maintained, and is
uninterrupted by large openings.
      (2)   Clear cutting. Clear cutting anywhere in the designated Cannon
River Wild and Scenic Overlay District is subject to the following standards
and criteria.
         (a)   Clear cutting shall not be used as a cutting method where soil,
slope or other watershed conditions are determined by the Zoning Administrator
to be fragile and subject to severe erosion and/or sedimentation.
         (b)   Clear cutting shall be conducted only where clear-cut blocks,
patches or strips are, in all cases, shaped and blended with the natural
terrain.
         (c)   The size of clear-cut blocks, patches or strips shall be kept at
the minimum necessary.
         (d)   Where feasible, all clear cuts shall be conducted between
September 1 and May 1. If natural regeneration will not result in adequate
vegetative cover, areas in which clear cutting is conducted shall be replanted
to prevent erosion and to maintain the aesthetic quality of the area. Where
feasible, replanting shall be performed in the same spring, or the following
spring.
   (K)   Grading, filling, alterations of the beds of public waters.
      (1)   Grading and filling of the natural topography that is not accessory
to a permitted, conditional or interim use shall not be permitted in the land
use districts.
      (2)   Grading and filling of the natural topography that is accessory to
a permitted, conditional or interim use shall not be conducted without a
grading and filling permit from the Zoning Administrator. A grading and filling
permit may be issued only if the following conditions are property satisfied:
         (a)   Grading and filing shall be performed in a manner that minimizes
earthmoving, erosion, tree clearing and the destruction of natural amenities;
         (b)   The smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for as short a
time as possible;
         (c)   Temporary ground cover, such as mulch, is used and permanent
ground cover, such as sod, is planted;
         (d)   Methods to prevent erosion and trap sediment are employed; and
         (e)   Fill is stabilized to accepted engineering standards.
      (3)   Excavation of material from, or filling in a Wild and Scenic River,
or construction of any permanent structures or navigational obstructions
therein is prohibited unless authorized by a permit from the Commissioner
pursuant to M.S. § 103G.245, as it may be amended from time to time, which
requires a permit from the Commissioner before any change is made in the
course, current or cross-section of public waters.
      (4)   Drainage or filling of wetlands is not allowed within the land use
districts designated by this chapter.
   (L)   Utility transmission crossings.
      (1)   All utility crossings of the Cannon River or state lands within the
Cannon River Land Use District require a license from the Commissioner pursuant
to M.S. § 84.415, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   All utility transmission crossings constructed within the Cannon
River Land Use District shall require a conditional use permit. The
construction of the transmission services shall be subject to Minn. Rules parts
6105.0170 and 6105.0180. No conditional use permit shall be required for high
voltage lines under control of the Environmental Quality Board (EQB) pursuant
to M.S. § 216E.10, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (M)   Public roads.
      (1)   In addition to such permits as may be required by M.S. § 103G.245,
as it may be amended from time to time, a conditional use permit shall be
required for any construction or reconstruction of public roads within the
Cannon River Land Use District. The construction or reconstruction shall be
subject to Minn. Rules part 6105.0190 and 6105.0200.
      (2)   Public roads include township, county and municipal roads, streets
and highways that serve or are designated to serve flows of traffic between
communities or other traffic generating areas. A conditional use permit is not
required for minor public streets that are intended to serve primarily as an
access to abutting properties.
   (N)   Bridges. The development of bridges cited in Minn. Rules part
6115.0230 and 6115.0231, shall comply with the construction and permit
requirements of Minn. Rules parts 6105.0190 and 6105.0200. The reconstruction,
replacement or upgrading of existing bridge crossings shall comply with Minn.
Rules parts 6105.0190 and 6105.0200.
   (O)   Subdivisions; land suitability.
      (1)   No land shall be subdivided that is determined by the Zoning
Administrator or the Commissioner, to be unsuitable because of flooding,
inadequate drainage, unique natural features, soil and rock formations with
severe limitations for development, severe erosion potential, unfavorable
topography, inadequate water supply or sewage treatment capabilities, or any
other feature likely to be harmful to the health, safety or welfare of the
future residents of the proposed subdivision or the community.
      (2)   No plat or subdivision within the Cannon River District shall be
approved by the Planning Commission until the applicant has proven, through
percolation rate tests, soil boring tests and other requirements of Minn. Rules
Ch. 7080, that every newly platted lot found within the land use district has
adequate area and a suitable location for the installation of a conforming
septic tank and soil absorption system.
      (3)   The provisions otherwise set forth in this section and in division
(M) above shall apply to all plats.
   (P)   Administration; certification procedure.
      (1)   A copy of all notices of any public hearings, or where a public
hearing is not required, a copy of the application to consider ordinances,
zoning amendments, variances or inconsistent plats under this section shall be
sent so as to be received by the Commissioner at least 30 days prior to the
hearings or meetings to consider the requests. The notice or application shall
include a copy of the proposed amendment, or a copy of the proposed
inconsistent plat, or a description of the requested variances.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall notify the Commissioner of its final
decision on the proposed action within ten days of the decision.
      (3)   The Commissioner shall, no later than 30 days from the time he or
she receives notice of the final decision, communicate either certification of
approval, with or without conditions, or notice of denial.
      (4)   The action becomes effective when and only when either:
         (a)   The final decision taken by the Planning Commission has
previously received certification of approval from the Commissioner;
         (b)   The Planning Commission receives certification of approval after
its final decision;
         (c)   Thirty days have elapsed from the day the Commissioner received
notice of the final decision, and the Planning Commission has received from the
Commissioner neither certification of approval, nor notice of denial; or
         (d)   The Commissioner certifies his or her approval after conducting
a public hearing.
      (5)   In case the Commissioner gives notice of denial of an ordinance,
amendment, variance or inconsistent plat, either the applicant or the
Chairperson of the Planning Commission may, within 30 days of the notice, file
with the Commissioner a demand for hearing. If the demand for hearing is not
made within 30 days, the notice of denial becomes final.
         (a)   The hearing will be held in an appropriate local community
within 60 days of the demand and at least two weeks’ published notice.
         (b)   The hearing will be conducted in accordance with M.S. §
103G.311, subd. 2, 6 and 7, as they may be amended from time to time.
         (c)   The Commissioner shall either certify his or her approval or
deny the proposed action within 30 days of the hearing.
   (Q)   Amendments.
      (1)   Requests for amendments of this section may be initiated by a
petition of affected property owners or by action of the Planning Commission.
An amendment not initiated by the Planning Commission shall be referred to the
Planning Commission for study. Amendments to this section shall be processed as
outlined in §
155.04(E) of this chapter.
      (2)   An application for an amendment shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator.
      (3)   Upon receipt in proper form of the application and other requested
materials, a public hearing shall be conducted in the manner prescribed by
state statutes. Following the public hearing and recommendation by the Planning
Commission, the City Council may adopt the amendment in the manner prescribed
by state statutes and as outlined in §
155.04(E) of this chapter.
      (4)   Certification from the Commissioner must be obtained as specified
in division (Q)(3) above before the proposed amendment becomes effective.
   (R)   Variances.
      (1)   The grant of a variance in the Cannon River Wild and Scenic Overlay
District requires the presence of the following conditions:
         (a)   The strict enforcement of the land use controls will result in
unnecessary hardship;
         (b)   Granting of the variance is not contrary to the purpose and
intent of this section and is consistent with this chapter;
         (c)   There are exceptional circumstances unique to the subject
property that were not created by the landowner;
         (d)   Granting of the variance will not allow any use which is neither
permitted or permitted with a conditional or interim use permit in the land use
district in which the subject property is located;
         (e)   Granting of the variance will not alter the essential character
of the locality; and
         (f)   Exceptions for lots that do not meeting the minimum lot width
requirements of this section. Where a setback pattern from the ordinary high
water level has already been established on both sides of a proposed building
site, the setback of the proposed structure may be allowed to conform to that
pattern. This provision shall apply only to lots that do not meet the minimum
lot width requirements of this section.
      (2)   All granted variances to the requirement of this section must be
certified in accordance with this chapter before they become effective.
   (S)   Plats.
      (1)   Copies of all plats within the Cannon River Land Use District shall
be forwarded to the Commissioner within ten days of approval by the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   Approval of a plat that is inconsistent with this section is
permissible only if the detrimental impact of the inconsistency is more than
overcome by other protective characteristics of the proposal.
      (3)   All inconsistent plats approved by the Planning Commission must be
certified in accordance with this section.
   (T)   Conditional use permit application review by DNR.
      (1)   A copy of all notices of any public hearing, or where a public
hearing is not required, a copy of the application to consider issuance of a
conditional use permit shall be sent so as to be received by the Commissioner
at least 30 days prior to a hearing or meeting to consider issuance of a
conditional use permit. A copy of the decision shall be forwarded to the
Commissioner within ten days of the action.
      (2)   Any conditional use permit for governmental campgrounds, private
campgrounds, public accesses with boat launching facilities, public accesses
with trail access, governmental open space recreational uses and private open
space recreational uses require approval by the Commissioner.
   (U)   Procedures summary. The following table summarizes permit, review and
certification procedures within the Cannon River Land Use District designated
by this section:
Types of Activities Procedures
Types of Activities          Procedures
Amendments to ordinance      PH - FD - CC
Building permits             LP
Conditional use permits      PH - FD
Grading, filing permits      LP
Inconsistent plats           PH - FD - CC
Planned cluster developments PH - PA - FD - CC
Plats                        FD
Sewage system permits        LP
Sign construction permits    LP
Variances                    PH - FD - CC
Water supply permits         LP
NOTES TO TABLE:
LP - Permit issued by Building Official or Zoning Administrator in accordance
with this section and this chapter
PH - Copy of public hearing notice or application sent so as to be received by
the Commissioner at least 30 days prior to the hearing or meeting
CC - Action becomes effective only when the Commissioner certifies its
compliance with the Act, statewide standards and criteria, and the Cannon
River rules
FD - A copy of the final determination is forwarded to the Commissioner
PA - Preliminary plans approved by the Commissioner prior to their enactment
 
   (V)   Enforcement.
      (1)   It is declared unlawful for any person to violate any of the terms
and provisions of this section. Violation thereof shall be a misdemeanor. Each
day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   In the event of a violation or a threatened violation of this
section, the Planning Commission, in addition to other remedies, may institute
appropriate actions or proceedings to prevent, restrain or abate the violations
or threatened violations.
§ 155.13 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Lot splits.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator may administratively approve applications
for lot splits that do not require a variance. An application form, along with
three copies of a site sketch and the appropriate fee, as determined by this
chapter, must be submitted to the Zoning Administrator. In addition, if deemed
necessary to determine compliance with the standards of this chapter, the
Zoning Administrator may request a map or sketch, drawn to scale or a survey,
showing the following:
         (a)   Name and address, including telephone number, of the legal owner
and/or agent of the property;
         (b)   All contiguous property and all roads and their legal names;
         (c)   Proposed new property lines with the dimensions noted;
         (d)   Proposed driveway locations and the location of existing
driveways on the same side of the road;
         (e)   Location of any existing and proposed legal rights-of-way or
public and private easements encumbering the property;
         (f)   Proposed legal description of the parcel(s) to be subdivided;
         (g)   Location, purpose and dimensions of all buildings. Location
shall note the distance of those buildings closest to property lines from the
existing and proposed lines;
         (h)   Location of any existing tile lines, abandoned wells, drainage
ways, waterways, watercourses, lakes, wetlands and the top and toe of any
bluffs present. When applicable, the ordinary high water level and the 100-year
flood elevation shall be shown;
         (i)   Location of a primary and alternate site for individual septic
treatment systems with a copy of percolation tests and soil borings; and
         (j)   Location of all existing and proposed public or private
easements.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator may require such revisions as are
necessary to meet code requirements.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall make a decision to approve or
disapprove a requested lot split within ten working days of submission of a
completed application or may refer the application to the Planning Commission.
The Zoning Administrator shall provide written notice of any such decision to
the owner or subdivider.
      (4)   Any decision of the Zoning Administrator, unless appealed, shall be
the final decision.
      (5)   (a)   Any decision of the Zoning Administrator regarding lot splits
may be appealed to the Planning Commission following transmission of a written
notice of appeal that specifies the subject and grounds therefor.
         (b)   The notice must be received by the Zoning Administrator within
ten days following the issuance of the order, requirement, decision or
determination that is the subject of the appeal.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator will forward the appeal to the Planning
Commission.
      (6)   Upon appeal, the Planning Commission will take action to approve or
deny the lot split request. The Zoning Administrator shall notify the owner and
subdivider in writing of the Planning Commission’s decision.
   (B)   Driveways.
      (1)   A driveway permit must be approved by the Building Official prior
to construction.
      (2)   In essence, a driveway cannot interrupt the natural or ditch line
flow of drainage water. In some cases where shallow ditch lines or natural
drainage courses exist, driveways may be swaled at a point beyond the road
shoulder to accommodate the flow of storm water. In all other cases, driveways
must have sufficiently sized culverts installed and maintained by the homeowner
or subdivider. Stabilization of the driveway in-slope must be provided as part
of the final grade.
      (3)   Final driveway acceptance shall rest with the Building Official.
Any decision of the Building Official regarding driveway permits may be
appealed to the Planning Commission following transmission of a written notice
of appeal, which specifies the subject and grounds therefore. The notice must
be received by the Zoning Administrator within ten days following the issuance
of an order, requirement, decision or determination that is the subject of the
appeal. The Zoning Administrator will forward the appeal to the Planning
Commission.
      (4)   Upon appeal, the Planning Commission will take action to approve or
deny driveway permit appeal requests. The Zoning Administrator shall notify the
owner and subdivider in writing of the Planning Commission’s decision.
      (5)   In no case shall the culvert pipe under a driveway be less than 18
inches in diameter, with aprons.
      (6)   The cost of culverts shall be borne by the homeowner or subdivider.
      (7)   Driveways shall intersect the roadway at a preferred angle of 90
degrees, but in no case shall the intersection angle be less than 60 degrees.
      (8)   An all season safe distance of 200 feet in each direction must be
present for a building permit to be issued.
      (9)   No driveway shall be constructed within 50 feet of an intersecting
street. One hundred feet is preferable.
      (10)   The maximum allowable driveway width shall be 20 feet, not
counting the flares. The desirable width shall be 12 to 15 feet and the minimum
width shall be ten feet.
§ 155.14 FUTURE LAND USE MAP.
   See Joint Resolution/Orderly Annexation Agreement Between Bridgewater
Township and the City of Dundas dated July 12, 2004.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fea97f17e63fa05fca36cd209d09d1e24a0c1ae4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1363.jpg]
 
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
2016- 4-11-  Establishing a Planned Unit Development Overlay District for Lot 1, Block 1 of
02    2016   Dundas Dome Addition.
2016- 7-25-  Establishing a Planned Unit Development Lot 1, Block 16, Town of Dundas, Rice
03    2016   County, Minnesota 15 Hester Street East.
2016- 12-12- Establishing a Planned Unit Development for Dundas Commercial Park Fourth
08    2016   Addition.
2017- 9-11-  Establishing a Planned Unit Development Overlay District for Cannon River
03    2017   Valley Estates.
2017- 11-27- An interim ordinance establishing a moratorium on the construction of ground
05    2017   mounted solar energy systems.
2018- 9-24-  Terminating moratorium on the construction of ground solar energy systems.
04    2018
2018- 10-8-  Interim ordinance establishing a moratorium on self-storage facilities within
05    2018   the City of Dundas.
2018- 10-22- Amending the Planned Unit Development for Lot 1, Block 1 Dundas Dome Addition.
06    2018
2019- 2-11-  Terminating moratorium on self-storage facilities within the City of Dundas.
02    2019
2019- 3-11-  Establishing a planned unit development overlay for Dundas Commercial Park 5th
03    2019   Addition.
2019- 5-28-  Establishing a planned unit development district for “Bridgewater Heights” and
05    2019   amending the official zoning map.
2020- 5-11-  Amending the Planned Unit Development for Dundas Commercial Park Fourth
03    2020   Addition.
2020- 6-8-   Establishing a Planned Unit Development Overlay District for West Avenue
05    2020   Apartments Addition.
2021- 3-8-   Amending the Planned Unit Development for Bridgewater Heights Third Addition.
04    2021
2023- 8-28-  Establishing a Planned Unit Development for Lot 1, Block 1 Reese Real Estate
06    2023   Subdivision.
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Cites Code Section
M.S. Cites                    Code Section
12.25                         33.01,
                              33.04
12.31                         33.06
13.03                         34.01
13D.01—13D.07               30.01
13D.04                        30.01
14.57 to 14.69                112.06
15.73, subd. 3                152.22
15.99                         154.099,
                              155.04
17.46 to 17.4999              155.09
84.415                        155.12
84.81—84.91                 72.01
84.872                        72.06
88.16 to 88.22                93.22
103F                          154.101,
                              155.11
103F.301—103F.345           155.12
103G                          154.101,
                              155.11
103G.005, subd. 15            155.03
103G.005, subd. 15a           155.03
103G.221                      154.103
103G.222—103G.2372          155.03
103G.245                      155.12
103G.311, subd. 2             155.12
103G.311, subd. 6             155.12
103G.311, subd. 7             155.12
103I.301 to 103I.345          52.06
104.04                        154.100
104.31—104.40               154.100
115.01(5)                     51.001
115.07                        51.001
115.55                        155.04
116D.01                       155.08
118A.04                       31.16,
                              34.21
120A.05                       118.02
120A.24                       118.02
144.391                       115.01
144D                          155.09
145A.03                       114.01
145A.05, subd. 1              132.21
146B.01, subd. 30             114.01
152.02                        92.56
161.242                       90.16
168                           155.03
168.002, subd. 18             155.03
168.002, subd. 34             155.03
168.10                        90.16
168.27, subd. 1               155.03
168A                          155.03
                              90.15,
168B                          92.16 ,
                              92.21
168B.035                      90.18
168B.09, subd. 2              90.15
169                           70.01,
                              72.01
169.011                       90.16
169.011, subd. 42             70.09
169.70                        72.43
169.522                       72.43
169.999                       10.98
171                           72.43
176.001 et seq.               33.07
211B.045                      154.164
216B.02                       152.22
216B.02, subd. 4              152.22
216B.02, subd. 6              152.22
216B.1641                     154.008
216D                          152.22,
                              152.36
                              152.30,
216D.01—216D.09             152.36,
                              152.45
216D.04, subd. 3              152.22
216E.10                       155.12
221.81                        110.03
237.16                        152.20
237.79                        152.20
237.81                        152.20
                              152.20,
237.162                       152.22,
                              152.38
237.162, subd. 4              152.22
                              152.20,
237.163                       152.22,
                              152.38
237.163, subd. 2(b)           152.21
237.163, subd. 6              152.50
238                           152.22
238.086                       152.20
245.462, subd. 23             118.02
260B.198                      132.99
297A.67, subd. 23             155.03
297B                          155.03
                              93.01,
299F.011                      93.22,
                              93.27
299F.011, Subd. 4             93.22
299F.011, Subd. 5a            93.27
299F.011, Subd. 6             93.26
299M.04                       93.26
300.06                        152.26
307.08                        155.03
308A                          152.22
326B                          150.01
326B.082, subd. 16            150.99
326B.121, subd. 2(d)          150.02
326B.133                      150.02
326B.148                      150.03
327.31, subd. 3               154.008
329                           113.03
                              112.01,
340A                          112.02,
                              112.03,
                              112.99
340A.22                       112.07
340A.24, subd. 2              112.03 
340A.285                      112.07
340A.301, subd. 6, clause (c) 112.07
340A.301, subd. 6, clause (i) 112.07
340A.301, subd. 6, clause (j) 112.07
340A.401, subd. 1             112.07
340A.404, subd. 5             112.07
340A.404(b)                   112.07
340A.408, subd. 5             112.06
340A.409                      112.06,
                              112.07
340A.413                      112.06
340A.503, subd. 1(a)(1)       132.26
340A.504                      112.07,
                              112.10
340A.509                      112.02
340A.801                      112.06
340A.4041                     112.07
                              118.01,
342                           118.03,
                              154.008
342.01                        111.04,
                              118.02
342.01, subd. 50              118.02
342.13                        118.03
342.13(c)                     118.01
342.17                        118.02
342.22                        118.01
342.22, subd. 5(e)            118.99
342.39, subd. 2               111.04
346.155                       91.03
347.50                        91.11
347.51                        91.11
347.515                       91.11
347.52                        91.11
347.52(a)                     91.11
347.52(c)                     91.11
347.51, subd. 3               34.01
                              116.02,
349                           116.04,
                              116.06,
                              116.10
349.12, subd. 3               116.03
349.166                       116.06
349.166, subd. 2              116.06
412.591                       31.15
414.0325                      155.02
414.0325, subd. 5             32.04
415.11                        30.08
                              34.16,
429                           52.06,
                              152.43,  
                              154.193
                              90.26,
                              92.01,
                              92.02,
                              92.21,
429.101                       92.23,
                              92.39,
                              92.63,
                              152.01,
                              153.02
444.075                       54.02
444.075, subd. 3              54.05
448.56                        32.50
453                           152.22
453A                          152.22
461.12                        115.99
                              152.43,
462                           154.006,
                              154.101
462.351 to 462.364            155.02
462.354(1)                    32.01
462.357                       155.11
462.357, subd. 1e             154.076
462.357, subd. 7              155.09
462.358, subd. 2b             154.192
462.3593                      154.061
462.3593, subd. 9             154.061
463                           92.63
463.15—463.26               92.01
463.15—463.261              92.21
471.15 et seq.                32.50
471.57                        34.22
471.59                        93.01
471.62                        111.03
471.195                       90.01
475.61                        34.16
505.03                        154.190
508.47                        155.03
514.67                        92.01
515A.1-101 et seq.            154.008
515B                          154.008
609.205(4)                    91.11
609.226, subd. 1              91.11
617.241                       117.04,
                              154.167
624.717                       131.04
626.862                       10.20
631.48                        10.99
645.31, Subd. 2               93.22
                              
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2018 Code
Prior Code     2018 Code
101.01         34.01
101.02         34.01
102.01         34.15
102.02         34.16
102.03         34.17
102.04         34.18
102.05         34.19
102.06         34.20
102.07         34.21
102.08         34.22
300.01         30.01
300.02         30.02
300.03         30.03
300.04         30.04
300.05         30.05
300.06         30.06
300.07         30.07
300.08         30.08
300.09         30.09
300.10         30.10
300.11         30.11
301.01         32.01
301.02         32.02
301.03         32.03
301.04         32.04
302.01         32.15
302.02         32.16
302.03         32.17
302.04         32.18
302.05         32.19
302.06         32.20
302.20         32.35
303.01         33.01
303.02         33.02
303.03         33.03
303.04         33.04
303.05         33.05
303.06         33.06
303.07         33.07
303.08         33.08
303.99         33.99
304.01         32.50
304.02         32.51
304.03         32.52
304.04         32.53
304.05         32.54
304.06         32.55
305.01         31.15
305.02         31.16
305.03         31.17
305.04         31.18
305.05         31.19
500.01         50.01
500.02         50.02
500.03         50.03
500.04         50.04
500.05         50.05
500.06         50.06
500.07         50.07
500.08         50.08
500.09         50.09
500.10         50.10
500.11         50.11
500.12         50.12
500.13         50.13
500.14         50.14
500.15         50.15
500.16         50.16
501.001        51.001
501.002        51.002
501.003        51.003
501.004        51.004
501.005        51.005
501.015        51.006
501.016        51.007
501.017        51.008
501.018        51.009
501.019        51.010
501.020        51.011
501.035        51.025
501.036        51.026
501.037        51.027
501.038        51.028
501.039        51.029
501.040        51.030
501.055        51.045
501.056        51.046
501.057        51.047
501.058        51.048
501.059        51.049
501.060        51.050
501.061        51.051
501.062        51.052
501.063        51.053
501.064        51.054
501.080        51.065
501.081        51.066
501.082        51.067
501.083        51.068
501.084        51.069
501.085        51.070
501.086        51.071
501.087        51.072
501.088        51.073
501.089        51.074
501.090        51.075
501.091        51.076
501.092        51.077
501.093        51.078
501.094        51.079
501.110        51.090
501.111        51.091
501.112        51.092
501.113        51.093
501.114        51.094
501.115        51.095
501.116        51.096
501.117        51.097
501.118        51.098
501.130        51.110
501.131        51.111
501.132        51.112
501.133        51.113
501.999        51.999
502.01         52.01
502.02         52.02
502.03         52.03
502.04         52.04
502.05         52.05
502.06         52.06
502.07         52.07
502.08         52.08
502.25         52.20
502.26         52.21
502.27         52.22
502.28         52.23
502.29         52.24
502.30         52.25
502.31         52.26
502.32         52.27
502.33         52.28
502.34         52.29
502.35         52.30
502.50         52.45
502.51         52.46
502.52         52.47
502.53         52.48
502.54         52.49
502.70         52.65
502.71         52.66
502.72         52.67
502.73         52.68
502.74         52.69
503.01         53.02
503.02         53.01
700.01         70.01
700.02         70.02
700.03         70.03
700.04         70.04
700.05         70.05
700.06         70.06,
               70.99
700.07         70.07
700.08         70.08
700.09         70.09
700.20         73.01
700.21         73.02
700.22         73.03
700.23         73.04
700.24         73.05
700.25         73.06
700.26         73.07
700.27         73.08
700.28         73.09
700.29         73.10
700.30         73.11
700.31         73.12
701.01         71.01
701.02         71.02
701.03         71.03
701.04         71.04
701.05         71.05
701.06         71.06
701.07         71.07
701.09         71.08
701.10         71.09
701.11         71.10,
               71.99
702.01         72.01
702.02         72.02
702.03         72.03
702.04         72.04
702.05         72.05
702.06         72.06
702.07         72.07
702.08         72.08
702.09         72.09
702.10         72.10
704.01         72.25
704.02         72.26
704.03         72.99
900.01         90.01
900.15         90.15
900.16         90.16
900.17         90.17
900.18         90.18
900.19         90.19
900.20         90.20
900.21         90.21
900.22         90.22
900.23         90.23
900.24         90.24
900.25         90.25
900.26         90.26
901.01         91.01
901.02         91.02
901.03         91.03
901.04         91.04
901.05         91.05
901.06         91.06
901.07         91.07
901.08         91.08
901.09         91.09
901.10         91.10
901.11         91.11
901.13         91.12
901.14         91.13
901.15         91.14
901.16         91.15
901.17         91.16
901.18         91.17
901.99         91.99
902.01         92.01
902.02         92.02
902.15         92.15
902.16         92.16
902.17         92.17
902.18         92.18
902.19         92.20
902.20         92.21
902.21         92.23
902.35         92.35
902.37         92.36
902.38         92.38
902.39 et seq. 92.39
903.01         152.01
903.02         152.02
903.03         152.03
903.04         152.04
903.05         152.05
903.06         152.06,
               152.99
903.07         152.07,
               152.99
904.01         153.01
904.02         153.02
905.01         92.55
905.02         92.56
905.03         92.57
905.04         92.58
905.05         92.59
905.06         92.60
905.07         92.61
905.08         92.62
905.09         92.63
905.10         92.64
905.11         92.65
905.12         92.66
905.13         92.67
905.14         92.68
905.15         92.69
1100.01        110.01
1100.02        110.02
1100.03        110.03
1100.04        110.04
1100.05        110.05
1100.06        110.06
1100.07        110.07
1100.08        110.08
1101.02        111.02
               117.01—
1101.05        117.06,
               117.99
1101.06        111.03,
               111.99
1103.01        113.01
1103.02        113.02
1103.03        113.03
1103.04        113.04
1103.05        113.05
1103.06        113.06
1103.07        113.07
1103.08        113.08
1103.09        113.09
1103.10        113.10
1103.11        113.11
1103.12        113.12
1104.01        114.01
1104.02        114.02
1104.03        114.03
1104.04        114.04
1104.05        114.05
1104.06        114.06
1104.07        114.07
1104.08        114.08
1104.09        114.09
1105.01        115.01
1105.02        115.02
1105.03        115.03
1105.04        115.04
1105.05        115.05
1105.06        115.06
1105.07        115.07
1105.08        115.08
1105.09        115.09
1105.10        115.10
1105.11        115.11
1105.12        115.12
1105.99        115.99
1106.01        150.40
1106.02        150.41
1106.03        150.42
1106.04        150.43
1106.05        150.44
1106.06        150.45
1106.07        150.46
1106.08        150.47
1106.09        150.99
1107.01        150.60
1107.02        150.61
1107.03        150.62
1107.04        150.63
1107.05        150.64
1107.06        150.65
1107.07        150.66
1107.08        150.99
1108.01        151.01
1108.02        151.02
1108.03        151.03
1108.04        151.04
1108.05        151.99
1109.01        150.15
1109.02        150.16
1109.03        150.17
1109.04        150.18
1109.05        150.19
1109.06        150.20
1109.07        150.21
1109.08        150.22
1109.09        150.23
1109.10        150.24
1109.11        150.25
1109.12        150.99
1111.01        116.01
1111.02        116.02
1111.03        116.03
1111.04        116.04
1111.05        116.05
1111.06        116.06
1111.07        116.07
1111.08        116.08
1111.10        116.09
1111.11        116.10
1300.01        130.01
1300.02        130.02
1300.03        130.03
1300.04        130.04
1300.05        130.99
1300.06        130.05
1301.01        131.01
1301.02        131.02
1301.03        131.03
1301.04        131.04
1302.01        132.01
1302.02        132.02
1302.03        132.03
1302.04        132.04
1302.05        132.05
1302.06        132.06
1302.07        132.07
1302.08        132.08
1302.09        132.09
1399.00        132.99
               
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
2.03     - -1985     32.17
2.01     - -1985     30.11
2.02     - -1985     30.11
4.01     - -1985     50.16
4.02     - -1985     50.15
19.01    - -1985     32.04
2003-01  - -         34.01
                     50.08,
                     51.093,
                     51.094,
                     52.07,
                     52.22,
2003-02  - -         52.24,
                     52.28,
                     52.30,
                     52.46,
                     52.48,
                     52.31,
                     52.99
2003-06  - -         92.69
2003-09  - -         71.05
2003-12  - -         32.04
                     90.17,
2003-13  - -         90.20,
                     90.25,
                     90.26
2003-15  - -         152.06,
                     152.99
                     117.03—
2003-16  - -         117.06,
                     117.99
2004-02  - -         71.06
2004-03  - -         32.02
2004-07  - -         32.02
2006-    - -         71.10,
                     71.99
2006-01  - -         30.01
2008-01  - -         34.01
2008-04  - -         34.01
2009-01  - -         34.01
2010-10  - -         34.01
2012-02  - -         34.01
2013-04  - -         34.01
2014-06  - -         34.01
2015-02  - -         34.01
2.02     9- -2000    30.08
2002-08  - -2002     30.08
                     154.001—
                     154.008,
                     154.020—
                     154.027,
                     154.040—
                     154.047,
                     154.060—
                     154.074,
                     154.085—
                     154.090,
                     154.093—
-        3-20-2002   154.095,
                     154.097,
                     154.099—
                     154.105,
                     154.115—
                     154.128,
                     154.140—
                     154.145,
                     154.160—
                     154.170,
                     154.185—
                     154.196,
                     154.999
2007-16  12-10-2007  52.06
2010-04  6-28-2010   31.01
                     72.40—
2010-07  8-30-2010   72.43,
                     72.99
                     112.01—
2011-02  8-22-2011   112.11,
                     112.99
2013-01  8-26-2013   53.02
2013-02  8-26-2013   53.01
                     132.20—
2013-03  9-23-2013   132.27,
                     132.99
2014-01  3-24-2014   54.01—
                     54.11
                     150.01—
2014-02  4-14-2014   150.04,
                     150.99
2014-04  6-23-2014   154.073
2014-05  6-23-2014   30.08
                     112.03,
2015-01  6-29-2015   112.07,
                     112.10
2015-04  11-23-2015  34.01
2016-01  1-11-2016   30.01
2016-02  4-11-2016   TSO Table
2016-03  7-25-2016   TSO Table
2016-04  8-22-2016   154.061
2016-05  9-26-2016   154.168
2016-07  12-12-2016  34.01
2016-08  12-12-2016  TSO Table
2016-09  12-19-2016  154.067
2017-01  3-27-2017   154.097
2017-02  4-10-2017   112.09
2017-03  9-11-2017   TSO Table
2017-04  11-27-2017  34.01
2017-05  11-27-2017  TSO Table
2018-01  1-8-2018    32.02—
                     32.04
2018-02  1-8-2018    32.52
2018-03  9-10-2018   154.008,
                     154.070
2018-04  9-24-2018   TSO Table
2018-05  10-08-2018  TSO Table
2018-06  10-22-2018  TSO Table
2018-07  11-13-2018  34.01
2018-08  12-10-2018  Adopting Ordinance
2019-01  1-28-2019   154.097,
                     154.099
2019-02  2-11-2019   TSO Table
2019-03  3-11-2019   TSO Table
2019-04  4-8-2019    152.20—
                     152.51
2019-05  5-28-2019   TSO Table
2019-06  8-12-2019   91.04,
                     154.075
2019-07  10-14-2019  154.101
2019-08  10-14-2019  154.095
2019-09  11-25-2019  34.01
                     92.15—
2020-01  1-6-2020    92.17,
                     92.19—
                     92.22
2020-02  4-13-2020   92.15—
                     92.23
2020-03  5-11-2020   TSO Table
2020-04  5-11-2020   154.099
2020-05  6-8-2020    TSO Table
2020-06  6-22-2020   154.164
                     72.40,
2020-07  7-27-2020   72.41,
                     72.43
2021-01  1-25-2021   30.01
2021-04  3-8-2021    TSO Table
2021-05  4-12-2021   155.05,
                     155.06
2021-06  5-10-2021   154.188
                     92.18,
                     92.21—
                     92.23,
2021-07  6-28-2021   92.35—
                     92.39,
                     151.04,
                     151.99
2022-01  1-24-2022   34.01
2022-02  2-28-2022   112.05
2022-03  2-28-2022   94.01—
                     94.11
2022-05  12-12-2022  34.01
2023-01  3-27-2023   30.03,
                     30.04
                     93.01,
                     93.05—
                     93.08,
2023-02  3-27-2023   93.15—
                     93.27,
                     93.35—
                     93.44
                     154.008,
                     154.025,
                     154.062,
2023-03  5-22-2023   154.067,
                     154.071,
                     154.086—
                     154.100
2023-04  7-10-2023   93.22—
                     93.24
2023-05  7-10-2023   52.31
2023-06  8-28-2023   TSO Table
                     154.008,
                     154.086,
2023-07  8-28-2023   154.089—
                     154.092,
                     154.095,
                     154.098
2023-10  9-25-2023   53.02
2023-12  12-11-2023  34.01
2024-01  8-26-2024   154.070
                     34.01,
2024-02  11-25-2024  118.01—
                     118.08,
                     118.99
                     154.008,
2024-03  11-25-2024  154.076,
                     154.087,
                     154.098
2024-04  11-25-2024  34.01,
                     111.04
2024-05  11-25-2024  154.067
2024-06  12-9-2024   34.01
                    
 
