EDEN VALLEY, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2024-10, passed 12-4-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2018-4
CITY OF EDEN VALLEY
COUNTIES OF MEEKER & STEARNS
STATE OF MINNESOTA
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCE FOR THE CITY OF EDEN VALLEY,
MINNESOTA, AMENDING, RESTATING, REVISING, UPDATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING
CERTAIN ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE
OF ORDINANCES, AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES.
WHEREAS M.S. §§ 415.02 and 415.021 authorize the city to cause its ordinances
to be codified and printed in a book,
NOW THEREFORE the City Council of the City of Eden Valley, Minnesota, ordains:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the City as amended, restated, revised,
updated, codified and compiled in book form, including penalties for the
violations of various provisions thereof, are hereby adopted and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Eden Valley." This Code of
Ordinances also adopts by reference certain statutes and administrative rules
of the State of Minnesota as named in the Code of Ordinances.
   Section 2. The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following titles:
      General Provisions, Council and Administration, City Departments and
Employees, Fire and Rescue Squad, Emergency Management, Utilities, Sewer
Regulations, Water Regulations, Garbage, Traffic Regulations, Parking
Regulations, Recreational Vehicles and Self-Propelled Wheeled Devices, Traffic
Schedules, Parking Schedules, Animals, Streets, Sidewalks, and Rights-of-Way,
Health and Safety, Nuisances, Trees, Peddlers and Solicitors, Liquor
Regulations, Sexually Oriented Businesses, General Offenses, Zoning,
Subdivision Regulations, Floodplain Management, Rental Code, Annexations, and
Franchises.
   Section 3. All prior ordinances, pertaining to the subjects treated in the
Code of Ordinances, shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance, except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in
part in the Code of Ordinances; provided, this repeal shall not affect any
offense committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the
effective date of this ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions
of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching
territory, establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain
persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or
borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal
property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public
use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor
shall this repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature
or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code of
Ordinances. All fees established in prior ordinances codified in this Code
shall remain in effect unless amended in this code or until an ordinance
adopting a fee schedule is adopted or amended.
   Section 4. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances shall be a
sufficient publication of any ordinance included in it and not previously
published in the City's official newspaper. The Clerk of the City shall cause a
substantial quantity of the Code of Ordinances to be printed for general
distribution to the public at actual cost and shall furnish a copy of the Code
of Ordinances to the County Law Library or its designated depository. The
official copy of this Code of Ordinances shall marked and be kept in the office
of the City Clerk.
   Section 5. The Code of Ordinances is declared to be prima facie evidence of
the law of the City and shall be received in evidence as provided by Minnesota
Statutes by the Courts of the State of Minnesota.
   Section 6. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances, and the Code of
Ordinances itself, shall take effect upon publication of this ordinance in the
City's official newspaper.
PASSED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF EDEN VALLEY, MINNESOTA THIS 14th DAY
OF NOVEMBER, 2018.
APPROVED:
Brent Bengtson, MAYOR
ATTEST:
Mona Haag, CITY CLERK
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules and supplements by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
 
   
10.98   Administrative offense and procedures
   
10.99   General penalty and enforcement
   
Appendix A:   Notice of code violation
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Eden Valley City Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances”, or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance.
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions, or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The City of Eden Valley, Minnesota. The term CITY when used in this
code may also be used to refer to the City Council and its authorized
representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Meeker County, Minnesota and Stearns County, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Clerk/Treasurer for public inspection. The Clerk/Treasurer shall provide a copy
for sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES AND SUPPLEMENTS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code
of ordinances, all future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes
adopted by reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted
by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
code was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
   (B)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code
of ordinances, all future supplements are hereby adopted as if they had been in
existence at the time this code was enacted, unless there is clear intention
expressed in the code to the contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the city’s Police Department, or the
County Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall have the authority to administer and
enforce this code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain
individuals designated within the code or by the Clerk/Treasurer or City
Council shall have the authority to administer and enforce the provisions
specified. All and any person or persons designated may issue a citation in
lieu of arrest or continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Clerk/Treasurer and any city official or employee designated
by this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may,
with the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or
resident of a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or
otherwise enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   If the licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Clerk/Treasurer, peace officer, or any employee or official charged with the
duty of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable
cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting
the inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only
to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (E)   Every licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of
property within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or
entrance to the property by the City Clerk/Treasurer or any other authorized
city officer or employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code
enacted to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the people are being
complied with and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit
the inspection of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for termination
of any and all permits, licenses, or city service to the property. Mailed
notice shall be given to the licensee, owner, resident, or other person in
control of the property, stating the grounds for the termination, and the
licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of the property shall be
given an opportunity to appear before the City Clerk/Treasurer to object to the
termination before it occurs, subject to appeal of the Clerk/Treasurer’s
decision to the City Council at a regularly scheduled or special meeting.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare.
§ 10.98 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSE AND PROCEDURES
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   Administrative offense procedures established pursuant to this
section are intended to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost
effective, and expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for
violations on the part of certain provisions of this code of ordinances. The
procedures are intended to be voluntary on the part of those who have been
charged with administrative offenses.
      (2)   At any time prior to the payments of the administrative penalty as
is provided for thereafter, the individual may withdraw from participation in
the procedures, in which event the city may bring criminal charges in according
to law. Likewise, the city, in its discretion, may choose not to initiate an
administrative offense and may bring criminal charges in the first instance.
      (3)   In the event a party participates in the administrative offense
procedures, but does not pay the monetary penalty, which may be imposed, the
city will seek to collect the cost of administrative offense procedures as part
of a subsequent criminal sentence, in the event the party is charged and is
adjudicated guilty of the crime violation.
(Prior Code, § 1601.010)
   (B)   Administrative offense defined. For the purpose of this section, the
following definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSE. A violation of a provision of this code of
ordinances and is subject to the administrative penalties set forth in the
schedule of offenses and penalties referred to in division (J) below, entitled
“offenses and penalties”, hereinafter.
(Prior Code, § 1601.020)
   (C)   Notice.
      (1)   Any officer of the City Police Department or any other person
employed by the city, authorized in writing by the Mayor of the city, and
having authority to enforce this code of ordinances, shall, upon determining
that there has been a violation, notify the violator, or the case of a
vehicular violation, attach to the vehicle a notice of the violation.
      (2)   Said notice shall set forth the nature, date, and time of the
violation, the name of the official issuing the notice, and the amount of the
scheduled penalty.
(Prior Code, § 1601.030)
   (D)   Payment.
      (1)   Once such notice is given, the alleged violator may, within 15 days
of the time of issuance of the notice, pay the amount set forth on the schedule
of penalties for the violation, or may request a hearing in writing, as is
provided for hereinafter.
      (2)   The penalty may be paid in person or by mail, and payment shall be
deemed to be an admission of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 1601.040)
   (E)   Hearing.
      (1)   Any person contesting an administrative offense pursuant to this
division (E) may, within seven days of the time of issuance of the notice,
request a hearing by a Hearing Officer who shall forthwith conduct an informal
hearing to determine if a violation has occurred.
      (2)   The Hearing Officer shall have the authority to dismiss the
violation or reduce or waive the penalty imposed within seven days.
(Prior Code, § 1601.050)
   (F)   Hearing Officer. The Mayor shall designate in writing a Hearing
Officer. The Hearing Officer is authorized to hear and determine any
controversy relating to administrative offenses provided for in the section and
may be compensated by the city for such hearings and related findings.
(Prior Code, § 1601.060)
   (G)   Failure to pay.
      (1)   In the event a party charged with an administrative offense fails
to pay the penalty, a misdemeanor or petty misdemeanor charge may be brought
against the alleged violator in accordance with applicable statutes.
      (2)   If the penalty is paid or if an individual is found not to have
committed the administrative offense by the Hearing Officer, no such charge may
be brought by the city for the same violation.
(Prior Code, § 1601.070)
   (H)   Disposition of penalties. All penalties collected pursuant to this
section shall be paid to the city and deposited in the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 1601.080)
   (I)   Offenses and penalties. Offenses which may be charged as
administrative offenses and the penalties for such offenses shall be
established by resolution of the City Council from time to time. Copies of such
resolution shall be maintained in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1601.090)
   (J)   Offenses and penalties. Offenses and penalties shall be in an amount
set by the City Council from time to time.
(Res. 2012-3, passed 1-11-2012)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including state statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including state statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   Pursuant to M.S. § 631.48, as it may be amended from time to time, in
either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs of
prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section or in §
10.98, if any person, firm, or corporation fails to comply with any provision
of this code, the Council or any city official designated by it, may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct, or abate the
violation.
APPENDIX A:    NOTICE OF CODE VIOLATION
To: (Name and address of person who is alleged to have violated the code)
From: (Name and title of city official giving the notice)
Re: Alleged violation of Section of the City Code, relating to (give title of
section)
Date: (Date of notice)
   I hereby allege that on (date of violation) you violated §                 
of the City Code relating
to                                                                                                                                     .
   The City Council has by resolution established an administrative penalty in
the amount of $         for this violation.
   Payment of this administrative penalty is voluntary, but if you do not pay
it the city may initiate criminal proceedings for this alleged violation.
   Payment is due within 14 days of the date of this notice. Before the due
date, you may request an additional 14-day extension of the time to pay the
administrative penalty.
   As an alternative to the payment of this administrative penalty, if the
situation that gave rise to this alleged violation is corrected by
                        (establish date), then the payment of the
administrative penalty will be waived.
   Even if the administrative penalty is paid, the city reserves the right to
institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct, or
abate the violation.
   Before the due date, you may request to appear before the City Council to
contest the request for payment of the penalty. After a hearing before the
Council, the Council may determine to withdraw the request for payment or to
renew the request for payment. Because the payment of the administrative
penalty is voluntary, there shall be no appeal from the decision of the
Council.
   If you pay the administrative penalty, the city will not initiate criminal
proceedings for this alleged violation. However, the Council, or any city
official designated by it, may institute appropriate proceedings at law or at
equity to restrain, correct, or abate the violation.
   Payment of the administrative penalty may be made by check, cash, or money
order to the City Treasurer.
Signed:                                                               
      (Name and Title of Person Giving Notice)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COUNCIL AND ADMINISTRATION
      
31.   CITY DEPARTMENTS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   FIRE AND RESCUE SQUAD
      
33.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30: COUNCIL AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
Rules for Organization and Procedure
   
30.01   Meetings
   
30.02   Presiding officer
   
30.03   Minutes
   
30.04   Order of business
   
30.05   Varying order
   
30.06   Quorum and voting
   
30.07   Ordinances, resolutions, motions, petitions, and communications
   
30.08   Committees
   
30.09   Suspension of amendment of rules
   
30.10   Fee schedule
Election and Term of Office
   
30.20   Election date
   
30.21   Terms and transition
   
30.22   Special election to fill certain vacancies
Combination of City Clerk and City Treasurer
   
30.35   Offices combined
   
30.36   Audits
RULES FOR ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE
§ 30.01 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held
on the first Wednesday of each calendar month at 7:00 p.m. Any regular meeting
falling upon a holiday shall be held on the next following business day at the
same time and place. All meetings, including special and adjourned meetings,
shall be held in the City Hall.
(Prior Code, § 201.010)
   (B)   Special meetings.
      (1)   The Mayor, or any two members of the Council, may call a special
meeting of the Council. Except in an emergency, there shall be at least 24
hours’ notice to each member of the Council. This notice shall be delivered
personally to each member or shall be left at his or her usual place of
residence with some responsible person.
      (2)   Similar notice shall be given to the city’s official declared legal
newspaper and radio station KLFD, Litchfield, and posted at the City Hall.
(Prior Code, § 201.020)
   (C)   Initial meeting. At the first regular Council meeting of January of
each year, the Council shall:
      (1)   Designate the depositories of city funds;
      (2)   Designate the official newspaper;
      (3)   Choose an Acting Mayor from the Council members who shall perform
the duties of Mayor during the disability or absence of the Mayor from the city
or, in case of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, until a successor has been
appointed and qualifies; and
      (4)   Appoint such officers and employees and such members of boards,
commissions, and committees as may be necessary.
(Prior Code, § 201.030)
§ 30.02 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   Who presides. The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council.
In the absence of the Mayor, the Acting Mayor shall preside. In the absence of
both, the Clerk/Treasurer shall call the meeting to order and shall preside
until the Council members present at the meeting choose one of their members to
act temporarily as presiding officer.
(Prior Code, § 201.021)
   (B)   Procedure. The presiding officer shall preserve order, enforce the
rules of procedure herein prescribed, and determine without debate, subject to
the final decision of the Council on appeal, all questions of procedure and
order. Except as otherwise provided by statute or by these rules, the
proceedings of the Council shall be conducted in accordance with the most
recent edition of Robert’s Rules of Order, Newly Revised.
(Prior Code, § 201.22)
   (C)   Appeal. Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling of the
presiding officer. If the appeal is seconded, the member may speak once solely
on the question involved and the presiding officer may explain his or her
ruling, but no other Council member shall participate in the discussion. The
appeal shall be sustained if it is approved by a majority of the members
present.
(Prior Code, § 201.023)
   (D)   Rights of the presiding officer. The presiding officer may make
motions, second motions, or speak on any question, except that on demand of any
Council member, he or she shall vacate the chair and designate a Council member
to preside temporarily.
(Prior Code, § 201.024)
§ 30.03 MINUTES.
   (A)   Who keeps. Minutes of each Council meeting shall be kept by the Clerk/
Treasurer or, in his or her absence, by the Deputy Clerk/Treasurer. In the
absence of both, the presiding officer shall appoint a Secretary Pro Tempore.
Ordinances, resolutions, and claims need not be recorded in full in the minutes
if they appear in other permanent records of the Clerk/Treasurer and can be
accurately identified from the description given in the minutes.
(Prior Code, § 201.030)
   (B)   Approvals. The minutes of each meeting shall be reduced to typewritten
form and shall be signed by the Clerk/Treasurer as soon as practicable after
the meeting. At the next regular Council meeting, approval of the minutes shall
be considered by the Council. The minutes need not be read aloud, but the
presiding officer shall call for any additions or corrections. If there is no
objection to a proposed addition or correction, it may be made without a vote
of the Council. If there is an objection, the Council shall vote upon the
addition or correction. If there are no additions or corrections, the minutes
shall stand approved.
(Prior Code, § 201.032)
(Ord. passed 9-4-2002)
§ 30.04 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Each meeting of the Council shall convene at the time and place
appointed therefor.
   (B)   Council business shall be conducted in the following order:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Roll call;
      (3)   Approval of minutes;
      (4)   Petitions, requests, and communications;
      (5)   Reports of officers, boards, and commissions;
      (6)   Unfinished business;
      (7)   New business;
      (8)   Miscellaneous; and
      (9)   Adjournment.
(Prior Code, § 201.041)
§ 30.05 VARYING ORDER.
   The order of business may be varied by the presiding officer, but all public
hearings shall be held at the specified time given in the notice of hearing.
(Prior Code, § 201.040)
§ 30.06 QUORUM AND VOTING.
   (A)   Quorum. At all Council meetings, a majority of all the Council members
duly qualified and sworn shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business, but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 201.051)
   (B)   Voting. The votes of the members on any question may be taken in any
manner, which signifies the intention of the individual members, and the votes
of the members on any action taken shall be recorded in the minutes. The vote
of each member shall be recorded on each appropriation of money, except for
payments of judgments, claims, and amounts fixed by statute. If any member is
present but does not vote, the minutes, as to his or her name, shall be marked
“present, not voting”. If any member wishes to abstain, he or she shall answer
‘abstain’ when the vote is called and the minutes, as to his or her name, shall
be marked ‘abstained’.
(Prior Code, § 201.052)
   (C)   Votes required. A majority vote of all members of the Council shall be
necessary for approval of any ordinance unless a larger number is required by
statute. Except as otherwise provided by statute, a majority vote of a quorum
shall prevail in all other cases.
(Prior Code, § 201.053)
§ 30.07 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS, PETITIONS, AND COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Readings.
      (1)   Every ordinance and resolution shall be presented in writing. Every
ordinance shall receive two readings before the Council prior to final
adoption, but shall not be read twice at the same meeting unless the rules are
suspended for that purpose.
      (2)   An ordinance or resolution need not be read in full unless a member
of the Council requests such a reading.
(Prior Code, § 201.061)
   (B)   Signing and publication proof. Every ordinance and resolution passed
by the Council shall be signed by the Mayor, attested by the Clerk/Treasurer,
and filed by him or her in the ordinance or resolution book. Proof of
publication of every ordinance shall be attached and filed with the ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 201.062)
   (C)   Repeals and amendments. Every ordinance or resolution repealing a
previous ordinance or resolution or a section or subdivision thereof shall give
the number, if any, and the title of the ordinance, or code number of the
ordinance or resolution, and date passed to be repealed in whole or in part.
Each ordinance or resolution amending an existing ordinance or resolution or
part thereof shall set forth in full each amended section or subdivision as it
will read with the amendment.
(Prior Code, § 201.063)
   (D)   Motions, petitions, and communications. Every motion shall be stated
in full before it is submitted to a vote by the presiding officer and shall be
recorded in the minutes. Every petition of other communication addressed to the
Council shall be in writing and shall be read in full upon presentation to the
Council unless the Council dispenses with the reading. Each petition or other
communication shall be recorded in the minutes by title and filed with the
minutes in the office of the Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 201.064)
§ 30.08 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Committees designated. The Council may create such committees,
standing or special, as it deems necessary. Committees shall consist of as many
members, and perform such duties as the Council may require.
(Prior Code, § 201.071)
   (B)   Referral and reports.
      (1)   Any matter brought before the Council for consideration may be
referred by the presiding officer to the appropriate committee or to a special
committee appointed by him or her for a written report and recommendations
before it is considered by the Council as a whole.
      (2)   Each committee report shall be signed by a majority of the members
and shall be filed with the Clerk/Treasurer prior to the Council meeting at
which it is to be submitted. Minority reports may be submitted. Each committee
shall act promptly and faithfully on any matter referred to it.
(Prior Code, § 201.072)
§ 30.09 SUSPENSION OF AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   These rules may be suspended only by a two-thirds vote of the members
present and voting.
(Prior Code, § 201.080)
§ 30.10 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The city has established a fee schedule for specific services it
provides from time to time; and
   (B)   The fees shall be an amount set by the City Council from time to time.
(Res. 2018-27, passed 11-14-2018)
ELECTION AND TERM OF OFFICE
§ 30.20 ELECTION DATE.
   The regular election shall be held on the first Tuesday after the first
Monday in November in every even-numbered year.
(Prior Code, § 202.010)
§ 30.21 TERMS AND TRANSITION.
   At each biennial city election, the Mayor shall be elected for a two-year
term and two Council members shall be elected for four-year terms.
(Prior Code, § 202.030)
§ 30.22 SPECIAL ELECTION TO FILL CERTAIN VACANCIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GENERAL ELECTION. An election held at regular intervals on a day
determined by law or charter at which the voters of the state or any of its
subdivisions choose by ballot public officials or presidential electors.
      SPECIAL ELECTION. An election held at any time to fill vacancies in
public offices, or an election held by a subdivision of the state for a special
purpose.
      VACANCY. A VACANCY occurs for the reasons stated in M.S. § 351.02, as it
may be amended from time to time, or other state law.
   (B)   Resolution declaring vacancy. The City Council is responsible for
determining if a vacancy exists, and shall adopt a resolution declaring a
vacancy when one exists.
   (C)   Appointment to vacancy. Pursuant to M.S. § 412.02, subd. 2a, as it may
be amended from time to time, a person shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
on an interim basis until a successor is elected and qualified to take office.
Appointments are made by a vote of the Council. In the event of a tie vote, the
Mayor shall make the appointment.
   (D)   Special election timing.
      (1)   A special election shall be called to fill all vacancies, unless
there are fewer than 180 days remaining in the unexpired term, in which case
the Council shall appoint a successor to fill the remaining unexpired term.
      (2)   If a vacancy is declared with more than 70 days remaining before
the next general election, a special election may be held at the same time as
the next general election, or before the next general election, as determined
by the City Council in the resolution declaring the vacancy; provided, that the
special election must be held no later than 180 days after the date of the
resolution declaring the vacancy.
      (3)   If a vacancy is declared with less than 70 days until the next
general election, then a special election to fill the vacancy shall be held
after the general election, but no later than 180 days after the date of the
resolution declaring the vacancy.
   (E)   Effective date. This subchapter becomes effective upon passage and
publication.
(Prior Code, § 202.040) (Ord. 202.040, passed 9-9-2003)
COMBINATION OF CITY CLERK AND CITY TREASURER
§ 30.35 OFFICES COMBINED.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by M.S. § 412.591, sub. 2, as it may be
amended from time to time, the offices of Clerk and Treasurer in the city are
hereby combined in the office of Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 203.010)
§ 30.36 AUDITS.
   In every year, there shall be an audit of the city’s financial affairs by
the State Auditor or a public accountant in accordance with minimum auditing
procedures prescribed by the State Auditor.
(Prior Code, § 203.020)
CHAPTER 31: CITY DEPARTMENTS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Police Department
   
31.01   Police Department continued
   
31.02   Chief of Police
   
31.03   Duties of police
   
31.04   Uniform and badge
   
31.05   Reserve officers
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.01 POLICE DEPARTMENT CONTINUED.
   (A)   If the city has a Police Department at the time this code is adopted,
then the Department of the city is hereby continued. If the city does not have
a Police Department at the time of the adoption of this code, then at any time
after the code is adopted, the City Council may by resolution create a Police
Department, which shall be organized and administered as provided for by this
code. The City Council may at any time determine by resolution to discontinue
the existence of a Police Department and provide for the enforcement of state
laws and city ordinances by other means. The head of the Police Department
shall be known as the Chief of Police and the number of additional members of
the Police Department, together with their ranks and titles, shall be
determined by the City Council by resolution. The compensation to be paid to
members of the Police Department shall be fixed by the City Council. Members of
the Police Department shall be appointed by the City Council.
   (B)   All police officers shall meet the minimum standards for licensing as
a peace officer as established by the Minnesota Peace Officers Standards and
Training Board and have a current and valid peace officer license at the time
of appointment. All police officers shall retain this license during their
employment as a police officer with the city and will be subject to discharge
if the license is suspended, revoked or becomes invalid for any reason. In
addition, all police officers must have a valid Minnesota vehicle operator's
license and must be insurable as a vehicle driver by the city’s automobile
insurance carrier.
§ 31.02 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall have supervision and control of the Police
Department and its members. The Chief of Police shall be responsible for the
proper training and discipline of the members of the Police Department. The
Chief of Police shall be responsible for the keeping of adequate records and
shall report to the City Council on the needs of the Police department and its
work. Every member of the Police department is subordinate to the Chief of
Police and shall obey the instructions of the Chief of Police and any superior
officer. The City Council may designate one of the police officers as Acting
Chief, who shall have all the powers and duties of the Chief of Police during
the absence or disability of the Chief of Police.
§ 31.03 DUTIES OF POLICE.
   Members of the Police Department are authorized to enforce the laws
applicable to the city, bring violators before the court, and make complaints
for offenses coming to their knowledge. Members of the Police Department are
authorized to serve processes on behalf of the city and shall serve those
notices as may be required by the City Council or other authority. When the
city is not a party to the proceedings involved in the process or notice, the
officer shall collect the same fees as provided by law. All fees shall be paid
into the city treasury.
§ 31.04 UNIFORM AND BADGE.
   Each member of the Police Department shall, while on duty, wear a suitable
badge and uniform furnished by the city, except that the Chief of Police may
authorize the performance of specific duties while not in uniform. When a
member terminates membership in the Police Department, the member shall
immediately deliver to the city the badge, uniform and all other property of
the city.
§ 31.05 RESERVE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police may appoint, for a specified time, as many reserve
officers as may be necessary. Reserve officers shall be subordinate to the
Chief of Police. Under the provisions of M.S. § 626.84, subd. 1(e), as it may
be amended from time to time, a RESERVE OFFICER is an individual whose services
are utilized by a law enforcement agency to provide supplementary assistance at
special events, traffic or crowd control, and administrative or clerical
assistance. A reserve officer's duties shall not include enforcement of the
general criminal laws of the state, and the reserve officer does not have full
powers of arrest or authorization to carry a firearm on duty.
   (B)   The Chief of Police, or City Council if there is no Police Chief, may
appoint, for a specified time, as many parking enforcement officers pursuant to
M.S. § 168B.035 subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to time, as may be
necessary. The parking enforcement officers shall be subordinate to the Chief
of Police, if there is one, or the City Clerk. A PARKING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER is
an individual whose services are utilized by a law enforcement agency to
provide parking enforcement and administrative or clerical assistance. A
parking enforcement officer’s duties shall not include enforcement of the
general criminal laws of the state, and the parking enforcement officer does
not have full powers of arrest or authorization to carry a firearm on duty.
CHAPTER 32: FIRE AND RESCUE SQUAD
Section
Fire Department
   
32.01   Established
   
32.02   Appointment and selection
   
32.03   Duties of Fire Marshal
   
32.04   Duties of Chief
   
32.05   Records, duties of Secretary
   
32.06   Practice drills
   
32.07   Assistant Chief
   
32.08   Firefighters
   
32.09   Loss of membership
   
32.10   Initial and yearly physical exam
   
32.11   Compensation
Tampering with Fire Department Equipment
   
32.25   Tampering unlawful
Building Inspections; Fire Marshal
   
32.40   Inspection
   
32.41   Building kept free from flammable material
   
32.42   Doors, access
   
32.43   Removal of flammable materials
   
32.44   Notice of violation
Rescue Squad
   
32.55   Rescue Squad established
   
32.56   Appointment of Rescue Squad Chief
   
32.57   Duties of Chief
   
32.58   Assistant Chief
   
32.59   Personnel
   
32.60   Interference with Rescue Squad
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHED.
   There shall be in the city a volunteer Fire Department consisting of a
Chief, an Assistant Chief, a Secretary, and not fewer than 16 nor more than 25
firefighters.
(Prior Code, § 401.010)
§ 32.02 APPOINTMENT AND SELECTION.
   The Chief shall be appointed by the City Council for a term of two years. No
person shall serve as Chief for more than 15 consecutive years. The Chief shall
also hold the position of Fire Marshal. The Assistant Chief and the Secretary
shall hold office for one year and until his or her successor has been duly
elected, except that he or she may be removed by the Council for cause after a
public hearing. Firefighters and probationary firefighters shall be appointed
by the members of the Department, subject to confirmation by the Council.
Firefighters shall continue as members of the Department during good behavior
and may be removed by the Council only for cause after a public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 401.020) (Ord. passed 12-16-1987)
§ 32.03 DUTIES OF FIRE MARSHAL.
   The Fire Marshal shall be charged with the enforcement of all ordinances
aimed at fire prevention. He or she shall have full authority to inspect all
premises and to cause the removal or abatement of all fire hazards.
(Prior Code, § 401.030)
§ 32.04 DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   The Chief shall have control of all the firefighting apparatus and shall be
solely responsible for its care and condition. He or she shall make a semi-
annual report to the Council at its meeting in March and September, on the
condition of the equipment and the needs of the Fire Department. He or she may
submit additional reports and recommendations at any meeting of the Council,
and he or she shall report each suspension by him or her of a member of the
Fire Department at the first meeting of the Council following such suspension.
He or she shall be responsible for the proper training and discipline of the
members of the Fire Department, and may suspend any member for refusal or
neglect to obey orders pending final action by the Council on his or her
discharge or retention.
(Prior Code, § 401.040)
§ 32.05 RECORDS, DUTIES OF SECRETARY.
   The Secretary shall keep in convenient form a complete record of all fires.
Such record shall include the time of the alarm, location of the fire, cause of
the fire (if known), type of building, name of owner and tenant, purpose for
which occupied, value of building and contents, members of the Department
responding to the alarm, and such other information as he or she may deem
advisable or as may be required from time to time by the Council or State Fire
Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 401.050)
§ 32.06 PRACTICE DRILLS.
   The Chief shall, when the weather permits, hold a monthly practice drill of
at least one hour’s duration for the Fire Department and shall give or arrange
for instruction to the firefighters in approved methods of firefighting and
prevention.
(Prior Code, § 401.060)
§ 32.07 ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   In the absence or disability of the Chief, the Assistant Chief shall perform
all the functions and exercise all the authority of the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 401.070)
§ 32.08 FIREFIGHTERS.
   The Assistant Chief and firefighters shall be able-bodied and not less than
18 years of age. They shall become members of the Fire Department only after a
six-month probationary period. The Council may require that each candidate,
before he or she may become a probationary firefighter, must satisfy certain
minimum requirements of height, weight, education, and any other qualifications
which may be specified by the Council; and that he or she must pass
satisfactorily a mental and physical examination.
(Prior Code, § 401.080)
§ 32.09 LOSS OF MEMBERSHIP.
   To be in and remain in good standing in the Fire Department, each officer or
member shall not be absent from three consecutive meetings, unless such absence
is excused by the Chief. The failure to so attend shall be deemed sufficient
cause for removal of the member from the Fire Department. Members shall
continue as members during periods of good behavior, and may be removed by the
City Council only for cause after a public hearing, however, the Chief shall
have authority to suspend a member pending such public hearing. A member shall
receive no pay while suspended.
(Prior Code, § 401.090)
§ 32.10 INITIAL AND YEARLY PHYSICAL EXAM.
   (A)   The City Council may require that each candidate, before he or she may
become a member, must undergo a thorough physical examination by a licensed
doctor of medicine and submit such doctor’s written report thereof with his or
her application for membership on the Fire Department. In addition to the
initial physical examination, all Fire Department members 55 years of age or
older may be required to undergo a thorough physical examination by a licensed
doctor of medicine each year. This physical examination would be at the request
of the City Council or the Chief.
   (B)   The doctor’s written report shall be filed with the City Clerk/
Treasurer and the Chief within 30 days of the request for such physical
examination. Such report shall contain a statement whether or not, in such
doctor’s opinion, there is any evidence of myocarditis, coronary sclerosis, or
pneumonia or its equal in the candidate at the time of the examination. Such
report shall be retained and permanently kept in the files of the Fire
Department and the city. Failure to file such report upon request would be
deemed sufficient cause for removal. The city will pay the usual and customary
sum for the expense of the examination in the absence of medical insurance
being available to cover the cost of the examination.
(Prior Code, § 401.100)
§ 32.11 COMPENSATION.
   The members and officers of the Fire Department shall receive compensation
as set by the City Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 401.110) (Ord. passed 3-14-1990; Ord. passed 3-3-1993; Ord.
passed 2-3-1999; Ord. passed 1-11-2006)
TAMPERING WITH FIRE DEPARTMENT EQUIPMENT
§ 32.25 TAMPERING UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with or in any manner
ring or cause to be rung the fire alarm system of the city, except that when
said system is caused to be rung by authority of the City Council or Chief of
the Fire Department, and except when a fire exists within the area served by
said Department.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful for any unauthorized person to enter the
Fire Hall or any other building in the charge of the Fire Department or to
tamper with any equipment therein.
(Prior Code, § 402.010) Penalty, see §
10.99
BUILDING INSPECTIONS; FIRE MARSHAL
§ 32.40 INSPECTION.
   The Fire Marshal or his or her duly authorized assistants shall inspect all
business buildings in said city for the purpose of determining the general
character of the premises with respect to the disposition of debris, rubbish,
waste paper, rags, oils, explosives, and all kinds of flammable material, and
the means of access from one part of the building to another, and they may
inspect any building in said city for the purpose of ascertaining if any danger
from fire exists by reason of defective chimneys, flues, stoves, ovens,
furnaces, boilers, electric wiring, or by reason of any other cause.
(Prior Code, § 403.010)
§ 32.41 BUILDING KEPT FREE FROM FLAMMABLE MATERIAL.
   All parts of business buildings shall be kept free from all flammable
material, except such as may be absolutely necessary for the carrying on of the
duly authorized business, which shall at all times be carefully protected and
arranged in such manner as not to obstruct the convenient movement of the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 403.020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.42 DOORS, ACCESS.
   All door openings, external and internal in all business buildings, shall be
kept free from goods of any kind and means of access and free movement shall be
provided for the convenient work of the force.
(Prior Code, § 403.030) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.43 REMOVAL OF FLAMMABLE MATERIALS.
   There shall be no rubbish, waste paper, or like flammable materials left in
any part of business buildings or on the premises over one day, except that
such materials be stored within a fire-proof room, provided with standard fire
doors. All materials of such character shall be destroyed, removed, or placed
within said fire-proof room at the close of each business day.
(Prior Code, § 403.040)
§ 32.44 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Should the Fire Marshal on such inspections discover that any of the
provisions of this subchapter are being violated, said Fire Marshal is hereby
required to give notice thereof in writing to the owners or occupants of such
buildings, requiring them to comply with the provisions of this subchapter
within 48 hours.
(Prior Code, § 403.050)
RESCUE SQUAD
§ 32.55 RESCUE SQUAD ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established in this city a volunteer Rescue Squad consisting
of a Chief, an Assistant Chief, Secretary, and not less than ten members.
(Prior Code, § 404.010)
§ 32.56 APPOINTMENT OF RESCUE SQUAD CHIEF.
   (A)   The Rescue Squad Chief shall be appointed by, and be responsible to,
the City Council. The Council shall consider recommendations made by the
members of the Rescue Squad in making such appointment.
   (B)   The Rescue Squad Chief shall be appointed for a two-year term and
shall serve as Chief for no more than 15 consecutive years, at the pleasure of
the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 404.020) (Ord. passed 12-16-1987)
§ 32.57 DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   (A)   The Rescue Squad Chief shall be the administrative head of the Rescue
Squad.
   (B)   In such position, it shall be his or her duty to:
      (1)   Establish management organization. Recommend the management
organization of the Rescue Squad, including, but not limited to, such matters
as naming at least one Assistant Chief, determining how the Rescue Squad shall
be organized and naming officers;
      (2)   Control apparatus. Have control of all Rescue Squad apparatus and
equipment and be solely responsible for its care and condition;
      (3)   Reports. Make reports to the Council or to the public as directed
by the Council;
      (4)   Control assignments. Control work assignments so as to properly
utilize the working forces of the Rescue Squad;
      (5)   Training. Ensure the proper training of the members of the Rescue
Squad. At least one meeting of the Rescue Squad members and at least one drill
per month shall be held. Such meetings and drills may be held on the same night
if sufficient time is allocated for each. Records shall be kept of the names
and the number of the members present at each meeting or drill, what each drill
consists of, and any other pertinent information deemed necessary by the
Council; and
      (6)   Ancillary functions. To perform such other functions as are
necessary to property administer the Rescue Squad.
(Prior Code, § 404.030)
§ 32.58 ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   In the absence or disability of the Chief, the Assistant Chief shall perform
all the functions and exercise all the authority of the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 404.040)
§ 32.59 PERSONNEL.
   (A)   Appointment and promotion.
      (1)   All appointments to and promotions within the Rescue Squad shall be
made on the basis of merit and ability, and all members of the Rescue Squad
shall be qualified to perform their administrative and Rescue Squad duties. The
Chief shall prepare departmental regulations on personnel standards and
procedures, if such are necessary, to accomplish these objectives.
      (2)   The Chief shall recommend appointment, promotion, suspension, or
removal of the members of the Rescue Squad, subject to the confirmation or
approval of the Council.
   (B)   Qualifications. The members shall be able-bodied and not less than 18
years of age.
   (C)   Initial and yearly physical examination. The City Council may require
that each candidate, before he or she may become a member, must undergo a
thorough physical examination by a licensed doctor of medicine and submit such
doctor’s written report thereof with his or her application for membership on
the Rescue Squad. In addition to the initial physical examination, all Rescue
Squad members 55 years of age or older may be required to undergo a thorough
physical examination by a licensed doctor of medicine each year. This physical
examination would be at the request of the City Council or the Chief. The
doctor’s written report shall be filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer and the
Chief within 30 days of the request for such physical examination. Such report
shall contain a statement whether or not, in such doctor’s opinion, there is
any evidence of myocarditis, coronary sclerosis, or pneumonia or its equal in
the candidate at the time of the examination. Such report shall be retained and
permanently kept in the files of the Fire Department and the city. Failure to
file such report upon request would be deemed sufficient cause for removal. The
city will pay the usual and customary sum for the expense of the examination in
the absence of medical insurance being available to cover the cost of the
examination.
   (D)   Compensation.
      (1)   The members and officers of the Rescue Squad shall receive
compensation as set by the City Council from time to time.
      (2)   In computing compensation for call, one hour shall be considered as
the minimum to be paid to any member. The Chief shall certify and submit a
quarterly report showing in detail the hours served by each member of the
Rescue Squad, and the compensation to which he or she is entitled therefor,
during quarter. No payment of compensation shall be paid to any member until
such report is filed.
   (E)   Loss of membership. To be in and remain in good standing in the Rescue
Squad, each officer or member shall not be absent from three consecutive
meetings unless such absence is excused by the Chief. The failure to so attend
shall be deemed sufficient cause for removal of the member from the Rescue
Squad. Members shall continue as members during periods of good behavior, and
may be removed by the City Council only for cause after a public hearing;
however, the Chief shall have authority to suspend a member pending such
hearing. A member shall receive no pay while suspended.
(Prior Code, § 404.050) (Ord. passed 3-14-1990; Ord. passed 2-16-1994; Ord.
passed 2-3-1999; Ord. passed 1-11-2006)
§ 32.60 INTERFERENCE WITH RESCUE SQUAD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to give or make, or cause to be given or
made, an alarm without probable cause, or to neglect or refuse to obey any
reasonable order of the Chief at the call, or to interfere with the Rescue
Squad in the discharge of its duties.
(Prior Code, § 404.060) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 33: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
33.01   Policy and purpose
   
33.02   Definitions
   
33.03   Establishment of emergency management organization
   
33.04   Powers and duties of Director
   
33.05   Local emergencies
   
33.06   Emergency regulations
   
33.07   Emergency management a government function
   
33.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
§ 33.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds, or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action, or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in
order to ensure that preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with
those disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to
protect the public peace, health, and safety, and to preserve the lives and
property of the people of this city, it is hereby found and declared to be
necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters;
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and other
political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency preparedness functions; and
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
§ 33.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado, and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action, or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological, and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT includes those activities sometimes referred to as “civil defense”
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers, and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city- level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state, and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 33.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is hereby created within the city government an emergency management
organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director shall be
appointed by the City Council for an indefinite term and may be removed by the
Council at any time. The Director shall serve with a salary as established by
the City Council and shall be paid his or her necessary expenses. The Director
shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration, and
operation of the emergency preparedness organization, subject to the direction
and control of the Council. The emergency management organization shall conform
to and be consistent with, where applicable, all state and federal
requirements, including the National Incident Management System framework found
at 44 C.F.R. pt. 201, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 33.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director shall represent the city on any regional or state
conference for emergency management. The Director shall develop proposed mutual
aid agreements with other political subdivisions of the state for reciprocal
emergency management aid and assistance in an emergency too great to be dealt
with unassisted, and shall present these agreements to the Council for its
action. These arrangements shall be consistent with the State Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources, and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards, and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for the
emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty
of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may
be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the
emergency management activities of the city to the end that they shall be
consistent and fully integrated with the emergency plans of the federal
government and the state and correlated with emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the State and City Emergency Plan, the Director
shall institute training programs, public information programs, and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the City Emergency Plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies, and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to
the maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city
departments and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate
with and extend services and facilities to the city’s emergency management
organization and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or
agency in cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning
and programming of those emergency activities as will involve the utilization
of the facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting, and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that
emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency operational capability in the several services as
provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules, and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 33.05 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three
days, except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order or proclamation
declaring, continuing, or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions,
however, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.06 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary, to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations,
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting: the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance, and safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health,
fire, and safety regulations, drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training; and all other matters which are required to protect
public safety, health, and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer. A copy
shall be kept posted and available for public inspection during business hours.
Notice of the existence of these regulations and their availability for
inspection at the City Clerk/Treasurer’s office shall be conspicuously posted
at the front of the City Hall or other headquarters of the city or at other
places in the affected area as the Council shall designate in the resolution.
By resolution, the Council may modify or rescind a regulation.
   (C)   (1)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any
time.
      (2)   If not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end
of 30 days after its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it
relates, whichever comes first.
      (3)   Any resolution, rule, or regulation inconsistent with an emergency
regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the period of
time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   (1)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions
of M.S. § 12.37, as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding any
statutory or Charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council,
acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster.
      (2)   The city may exercise these powers in the light of the exigencies
of the disaster without compliance with the time-consuming procedures and
formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the performance of public work,
entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of supplies and materials,
limitations upon tax levies, and the appropriation and expenditure of public
funds, including, but not limited to, publication of resolutions, publication
of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and rules, provisions relating
to low bids, and requirement for bids.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.07 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he or she would
otherwise be entitled under this resolution or under the worker’s compensation
law, or under any pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any
benefits or compensation under any act of Congress.
§ 33.08 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The emergency management organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES
      
51.   SEWER REGULATIONS
      
52.   WATER REGULATIONS
      
53.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES
Section
   
50.01   Public utility duties
   
50.02   Notice to City Clerk/Treasurer and public utility
§ 50.01 PUBLIC UTILITY DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any public utility to keep on file with the
City Clerk/Treasurer a map indicating the locations of all underground
utilities.
   (B)   The map shall be updated at least yearly by all public utilities
unless there are no changes to note on the map previously furnished, and in
that case, a letter to that effect by the utility will be sufficient.
(Prior Code, § 1001.010)
§ 50.02 NOTICE TO CITY CLERK/TREASURER AND PUBLIC UTILITY.
   (A)   Any person, company, or corporation doing any excavation within the
city shall notify the City Clerk/Treasurer and it shall be unlawful for any
person, company, or corporation to excavate any ground within the city without
first determining whether there are underground utility lines in the excavation
area. All public utilities operating within the city shall provide the Clerk/
Treasurer with the current address and telephone number.
   (B)   All inquiries relating to underground facilities shall be directed to
this designated address and telephone number. No person shall excavate any
ground within the city without first making inquiries to said public utility as
to the location, if any, of any of its underground facilities in the area to be
excavated.
   (C)   If a public utility has underground lines within the area to be
excavated, it shall, with promptness, locate the same for the party planning
the excavation.
(Prior Code, § 1001.020) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Control of sewers; administration of chapter
   
51.003   Building sewers; general requirements
   
51.004   Tampering with wastewater facilities
   
51.005   Cost of repairing or restoring sewers
General Regulations
   
51.015   Deposits of unsanitary manner prohibited
   
51.016   Discharge of wastewater or other polluted waters
   
51.017   Restrictions on wastewater disposal facilities
   
51.018   Installation of service connection to public sewer
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
51.035   Public sewer not available
   
51.036   Permits
   
51.037   Type, capacities, location and layout
   
51.038   Direct connection required
   
51.039   Operation and maintenance by owner
   
51.040   Application of subchapter
Building Sewers and Connections
   
51.055   Restrictions on new connections
   
51.056   Building sewer permits
   
51.057   Costs and expenses
   
51.058   Separate building sewers required
   
51.059   Old building sewers; restrictions on use
   
51.060   Conformance to State Building and Plumbing Code requirements
   
51.061   Elevation below basement floor
   
51.062   Surface runoff or groundwater connections prohibited
   
51.063   Excavations
   
51.064   Licenses
Use of Public Services
   
51.080   Discharges of unpolluted water
   
51.081   Discharges of waters or wastes
   
51.082   Limited discharges
   
51.083   Discharges hazardous to life or constitute public nuisances
   
51.084   Increasing use of process water
   
51.085   Pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities
   
51.086   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
51.087   Industrial wastes; installations
   
51.088   Industrial wastes; requirements
   
51.089   Measurements, tests and analyses of waters and wastes
   
51.090   Protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials
   
51.091   Permitting substance or matter to flow or pass into public sewers
   
51.092   Repairing service connection
   
51.093   Catch basin or waste traps required for motor vehicle washing or
servicing facilities
   
51.094   Special agreement and arrangement
User Rate Schedule for Charges
   
51.110   Charges generally
   
51.111   Purpose
   
51.112   Definitions
   
51.113   Establishment of a sewer service charge system
   
51.114   Determination of sewer service charges
   
51.115   Sewer service fund
   
51.116   Administration
Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
51.130   Authorized employees permitted to enter all properties
   
51.131   Authorized employees obtaining information for industrial processes
   
51.132   Authorized employees to observe safety rules
   
51.133   Authorized employees permitted to enter all property with easements
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
    ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also referred to as the Clean
Water Act, being 33 USC 1251 et seq., as amended.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing Materials.
   AUTHORITY. This city or its representative thereof.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD5). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20° C, expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning three
feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also referred to as a house connection or service
connection.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure specially constructed for the purpose of
measuring flow and sampling of wastes.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of food.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Gaseous, liquid and solid wastes resulting from industrial
or manufacturing processes, trade or business, or from the development,
recovery and processing of natural resources, as distinct from residential or
domestic strength wastes.
   INDUSTRY. Any nongovernmental or nonresidential user of a publicly owned
treatment works which is identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, latest edition, which is categorized in Divisions A, B, D, E and I.
   INFILTRATION. Water entering the sewage system (including building drains
and pipes) from the ground through means as defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections and manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW (I/I). The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow.
   INFLOW. Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
building drains) from sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard and area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, catch basins,
surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the city's wastewater disposal
system processes or operations which causes or significantly contributes to a
violation of any requirement of the city's NPDES or SDS permit. The term
includes sewage sludge use or disposal by the city in accordance with published
regulations providing guidelines under Section 405 of the Act (33 USC 1345) or
any regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 USC 6901
et seq.), the Clean Air Act (42 USC 7401 et seq.), the Toxic Substances Control
Act (15 USC 2601 et seq.), or more stringent state criteria applicable to the
method of disposal or use employed by the city.
   MPCA. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations
establishing pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants in publicly-
owned wastewater treatment facilities which are determined to be not
susceptible to treatment by those treatment facilities or would interfere with
the operation of those treatment facilities, pursuant to Section 307(b) of the
Act (33 USC 1317(b)).
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued by the MPCA, setting limits on pollutants that a permittee may legally
discharge into navigable waters of the United States pursuant to Sections 402
and 405 of the Act (33 USC 1342 and 33 USC 1345).
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers,
which overflow into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface
water or ground water.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or during which the only pollutant
added is heat.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater that is primarily introduced by
residential users with a BOD5 concentration not greater than 287 mg/l and a
suspended solids (TSS) concentration not greater than 287 mg/l.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
terms of grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from industrial sources prior to
the introduction of the waste effluent into a publicly-owned treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than ½-inch (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is wastewater.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
      (1)   COLLECTION SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges and connections.
      (2)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
      (3)   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned and maintained by a
public authority.
      (4)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned, maintained and controlled by a public
authority.
      (5)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters
which are not admitted intentionally.
      (6)   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer intended to carry
storm waters, surface runoff, ground water, subsurface water, street wash
water, drainage and unpolluted water from any source.
   SLUG. Any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including but not
limited to an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (SDS) PERMIT. Any permit (including any terms,
conditions and requirements thereof) issued by the MPCA pursuant to M.S. §
115.07, as it may be amended from time to time for a disposal system as defined
by M.S. § 115.01 subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to time.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition, and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse affects as defined in standards issued pursuant to Section 307(a) of
the Act (33 USC 1317(a)).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards, and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities.
   USER. Any person who discharges or causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the city’s wastewater disposal system.
   UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT. The person appointed by the City Council to
supervise the sewer and water systems of the city.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community and referred to as sewage. From
the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with any ground water, surface water and storm water that
may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment or processes owned or used by the
city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater, or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works including land
which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from that treatment.
   WPCF. The Water Pollution Control Federation.
§ 51.002 CONTROL OF SEWERS; ADMINISTRATION OF CHAPTER.
   The Utilities Superintendent, or other official designated by the City
Council shall have control and general supervision of all public sewers and
service connections in the city, and shall be responsible for administering the
provisions of this chapter to the end that a proper and efficient public sewer
is maintained.
§ 51.003 BUILDING SEWERS; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Building sewer construction shall meet the pertinent requirements of the
Minnesota State Building Code, which is those chapters of Minn. Rules
referenced in Minn. Rules part 1300.0050, as they may be amended from time to
time, and the Minnesota Plumbing Code, Minn. Rules Ch. 4715, as it may be
amended from time to time. The applicant shall notify the City Clerk when the
building sewer and connection is ready for inspection. The connection shall be
made under the supervision of the Building Official or the Building Official's
representative, if the city has adopted the State Building Code. If the city
has not adopted the State Building Code, the Utilities Superintendent shall
perform the inspection. If the city does not have a Utilities Superintendent,
an installer licensed under §
51.064 shall certify that the building sewer and connection comply with the
State Building Code. No backfill shall be placed until the work has been
inspected and approved, or until the certification has been received.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.004 TAMPERING WITH WASTEWATER FACILITIES.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of a
misdemeanor.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.005 COST OF REPAIRING OR RESTORING SEWERS.
   In addition to any penalties that may be imposed for violation of any
provision of this chapter, the city may assess against any person the cost of
repairing or restoring sewers or associated facilities damaged as a result of
the discharge of prohibited wastes by that person, and may collect the
assessment as an additional charge for the use of the public sewer system or in
any other manner deemed appropriate by the city.
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 51.015 DEPOSITS OF UNSANITARY MANNER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the city’s jurisdiction, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or objectionable waste.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.016 DISCHARGE OF WASTEWATER OR OTHER POLLUTED WATERS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet any wastewater or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter and the city’s NPDES/SDS
permit.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.017 RESTRICTIONS ON WASTEWATER DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful to
construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.018 INSTALLATION OF SERVICE CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes from which wastewater is discharged,
and which is situated within the city and adjacent to any street, alley or
right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in the future be located, a
public sanitary sewer of the city shall be required at the owner's expense to
install a suitable service connection to the public sewer in accordance with
provisions of this code within 365 days of the date the public sewer is
operational; provided, the public sewer is within 200 feet of the structure
generating the wastewater. All future buildings constructed on property
adjacent to the public sewer shall be required to immediately connect to the
public sewer. If sewer connections are not made pursuant to this section, an
official ten-day notice shall be served instructing the affected property owner
to make the connection.
Penalty, see §
10.99
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 51.035 PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE.
   Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions of §
51.018, the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter and Minn. Rules Ch.
7080, Design Standards for Individual Subsurface Sewage Treatment Systems, as
they may be amended from time to time.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.036 PERMITS.
   (A)   Required. Prior to commencement of construction of a private
wastewater disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit
signed by the city. The application for the permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary to the city.
   (B)   Inspections. A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall
not become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of
the city or its authorized representative. The city or its representative shall
be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction, and in any event,
the applicant for the permit shall notify the city when work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within 24 hours of the receipt of notice. The Utilities
Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city, bearing proper
credentials and identification, are authorized, with the permission of the
licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property within the
city, to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. If the licensee, owner, resident or other
person in control of property within the city does not permit the entrance to
the property, the city shall obtain a search warrant as provided for in §
10.20 before entering the property, except in emergency situations.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.037 TYPE, CAPACITIES, LOCATION AND LAYOUT.
   (A)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all requirements of Minn. Rules Ch. 7080,
Individual Sewage Treatment Systems Program, as they may be amended from time
to time. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
   (B)   Straight-pipe systems; noncompliance. A city inspector who discovers
the existence of a straight-pipe system may issue a noncompliance notice to the
owner of the straight-pipe system and forward a copy of the notice to the
Pollution Control Agency. The notice must state that the owner must
replace or discontinue the use of the straight-pipe system within ten months of
receiving the notice. If the owner does not replace or discontinue the use of
the straight-pipe system within ten months after the notice was received, the
owner of the straight-pipe system shall be subject to a Pollution Control
Agency administrative penalty of $500 per month of noncompliance beyond the
ten-month period. Administrative penalty orders may be issued for violations
under this subdivision, as provided in M.S. § 116.072, as it may be amended
from time to time. One-half of the proceeds collected from an administrative
penalty order issued for violating this subdivision shall be remitted to the
local unit of government with jurisdiction over the noncompliant straight-pipe
system.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.038 DIRECT CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   At the time a public sewer becomes available to a property serviced by a
private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the
public sewer within 365 days in compliance with this chapter, and within 365
days any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal
systems shall be cleaned of sludge. The bottom shall be broken to permit
drainage, and the tank or pit filled or may be removed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.039 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE BY OWNER.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the city.
§ 51.040 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the MPCA or the
Minnesota Department of Health.
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.055 RESTRICTIONS ON NEW CONNECTIONS.
   Any new connections to the sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited unless
sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities, including but
not limited to capacity for flow, BOD5 and suspended solids, as determined by
the Utilities Superintendent.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.056 BUILDING SEWER PERMITS.
   (A)   Required. No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections
with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance
thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
   (B)   Applications. Applications for permits shall be made by the owner or
authorized agent and the party employed to do the work, and shall state the
location, name of owner, street number of the building to be connected and how
occupied. No person shall extend any private building drain beyond the limits
of the building or property for which the service connection permit has been
given.
   (C)   Classes. There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: one for
residential and commercial service, and one for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or any other information considered
pertinent in the judgement of the city. The industry, as a condition of permit
authorization, must provide information describing its wastewater constituents,
characteristics and type of activity.
   (D)   Inspection and connection. The applicant for the building sewer permit
shall notify the city when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection and inspection shall be made
under the supervision of the Utilities Superintendent or authorized
representative thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.057 COSTS AND EXPENSES.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may be directly or indirectly occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.058 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWERS REQUIRED.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway. The building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered one building sewer. The city does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any
connection.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.059 OLD BUILDING SEWERS; RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Utilities Superintendent or his
or her representative, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
§ 51.060 CONFORMANCE TO STATE BUILDING AND PLUMBING CODE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The size, slopes, alignment, materials of construction of building
sewers and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling of the trench, shall all conform to the requirements
of the State Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the city. Cast iron pipe shall be used for a building sewer laid
within 50 feet of any well per Minnesota Public Health department requirements.
   (B)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the State Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city. All connections shall be made
gastight and watertight, and verified by proper testing to prevent the
inclusion of infiltration/inflow. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures
and materials must be approved by the city prior to installation.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.061 ELEVATION BELOW BASEMENT FLOOR.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.062 SURFACE RUNOFF OR GROUNDWATER CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall discharge water or cause to be discharged any
unpolluted waters such as storm water, ground water, roof run off, subsurface
drainage such as that from floor drains, sump pumps, cisterns, field tile or
any other recognizable source or any type of private, commercial or industrial
cooling water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation having a roof drain system, surface
drain system, footing tile, swimming pool, ground water drain system or sump
pump now connected and/or discharging into the sanitary sewer system shall
disconnect and/or remove the same. Any disconnects or opening into the sanitary
sewer shall be closed or repaired in an effective, workmanlike manner, as
approved by the public works supervisor.
   (C)   Dwellings and other buildings and structures which require because of
the infiltration of water into basements, crawl spaces and the like, a sump
pump system to discharge excess water shall have a permanently installed
discharge line which shall not at any time discharge water into the sanitary
sewer system. A permanent installation shall be one which provides for year
around discharge capability to either the outside of the dwelling, building or
structure, or is connected to the city storm sewer. It shall consist of a rigid
discharge line, without valves or quick connections for altering the path of
discharge, and if connected to the city storm sewer shall include a check
valve.
   (D)   Powers and authority of inspectors. Duly authorized employees or
representatives of the city, bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, and testing pertinent to determine the
nature of discharge into any public sewer or natural outlet in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. In lieu of having the city inspect their
property, any person or entity may furnish a certificate from a licensed
plumber certifying that their property is in compliance with this chapter.
   (E)   Any person refusing to allow their property to be inspected or
refusing to furnish a plumbers certificate within 14 days of the date the duly
authorized city employees or representatives are denied admittance to their
property shall be subject to the surcharge hereafter provided for.
   (F)   At any future time, if the city has reason to suspect that an illegal
connection may exist in a premises, the owner, by written notice shall comply
with the provisions of (C) above.
   (G)   A surcharge of $100 per month may be imposed and added to every sewer
billing mailed to property owners who are not in compliance with this chapter.
The surcharge shall be added every month until the property is in compliance.
The City Council may grant waivers from the surcharges where strict enforcement
may cause undue hardship unique to the property or where the property owner was
scheduled for disconnection but cannot do so due to circumstances, such as
availability of the plumber or inclement weather.
§ 51.063 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.064 LICENSES.
   (A)   Required. No person shall make a service connection with any public
sewer unless regularly licensed under this chapter to perform the work, and no
permit shall be granted to any person except a regularly licensed person. A
person licensed as a plumber by the State of Minnesota, or a person in the
ditch installing the pipe who has a card showing that they have completed a
program of training that incorporates the Plumbing Code installation
requirements, issued by either the Associated Builders and Contractors,
Laborers-Employers Cooperation Educational Trust, or Minnesota Utility
Contractors Association, is not subject to the licensing requirements of this
section.
   (B)   Application. Any person desiring a license to make a service
connection with public sewers shall apply in writing to the City Council with
satisfactory evidence that the applicant or employer is trained or skilled in
the business and qualified to receive a license. All applications shall be
referred to the Utilities Superintendent for recommendations to the Council. If
approved by the Council, the license shall be issued by the City Clerk upon the
filing of a bond as hereinafter provided.
   (C)   Issuance. No license shall be issued to any person until a policy of
insurance to the city, approved by the Council, is filed with the City Clerk
conditioned that the licensee will indemnify and save harmless the city from
all suits, accidents and damage that may arise by reason of any opening in any
street, alley or public ground made by the licensee or by those in the
licensee's employment for any purpose whatever, and that the licensee will
replace and restore the street and alley over that opening to the condition
existing prior to installation, adequately guard with barricades and lights,
and will keep and maintain the same to the satisfaction of the Utilities
Superintendent, and shall conform in all respects to any rules and regulations
of the Council relative thereto, and pay all fines that may be imposed on the
licensee by law.
   (D)   Fee. The license fee for making service connections shall be as
established by ordinance, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time.
All licenses shall expire on December 31 of the license year unless the license
is suspended or revoked by the Council for cause.
   (E)   Suspension or revocation. The Council may suspend or revoke any
license issued under this subchapter for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Giving false information in connection with the application for a
license.
      (2)   Incompetence of the licensee.
      (3)   Willful violation of any provisions of this chapter or any rule or
regulation pertaining to the making of service connections.
Penalty, see §
10.99
USE OF PUBLIC SERVICES
§ 51.080 DISCHARGES OF UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or caused to be discharged any water such as
stormwater, ground water, roof runoff, surface drainage or non-contact cooling
water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
those sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the city and other regulatory agencies. Industrial cooling
water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged to a storm sewer or
natural outlet on approval of the city and upon approval and the issuance of a
discharge permit by the MPCA.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.081 DISCHARGES OF WATERS OR WASTES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater disposal system or to the operation of the system. Prohibited
materials include but are not limited to gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene,
toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates,
perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides.
   (B)   Solid or viscous substances which will cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as but not limited to grease, garbage with particles greater
than ½-inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones,
hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders,
sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass
clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastic, asphalt
residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud
or glass grinding or polishing wastes.
   (C)   Any wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 or greater than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater disposal system.
   (D)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater disposal
system. A toxic pollutant shall include but not be limited to any pollutant
identified pursuant to Section 307(a) of the Act (33 USC 1317(a)).
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.082 LIMITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The following described substances, materials, water or wastes shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either sewers, the wastewater treatment works, treatment
process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
and soil, vegetation and ground water, or will not otherwise endanger lives,
limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. The Utilities Superintendent
may set limitations lower than limitations established in the regulations below
if, in his or her opinion, the more severe limitations are necessary to meet
the above objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of
wastes, the Utilities Superintendent will give consideration to factors as the
quantity of subject waste in reaction to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, the city's NPDES/SDS permit, capacity of the sewage treatment plant,
degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other
pertinent factors.
   (B)   The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be
violated without approval of the Utilities Superintendent are as follows:
      (1)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (65.6°C), or
causing, individually or in combination with other wastewater, the influent at
the wastewater treatment plant to have a temperature exceeding 104°F (40°C), or
having heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the wastewater
treatment works resulting in interference therein.
      (2)   Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65.6°C); and any wastewater containing oil and grease concentrations of mineral
origin of greater than 100 mg/l, whether emulsified or not.
      (3)   Any quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a
“slug” as defined in §
51.001.
      (4)   Any garbage not properly shredded, as defined in §
51.001 of this chapter. Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers
from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering
establishments or similar places where garbage originates from the preparation
of food on the premises or when served by caterers.
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life, or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair.
      (6)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process such as but not limited to dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions.
      (7)   Non-contact cooling water or unpolluted storm, drainage or ground
water.
      (8)   Wastewater containing inert suspended-solids such as but not
limited to fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues, or of dissolved
solids such as but not limited to sodium chloride and sodium sulfate, in
quantities that would cause disruption with the wastewater disposal system.
      (9)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of half-life or concentration as
may exceed limits established by the Utilities Superintendent in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations.
      (10)   Any waters or wastes containing the following substances to the
degree that any material received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater
treatment works is detrimental to treatment process, adversely impacts land
application, adversely effects receiving waters, or is in violation of
standards pursuant to Section 307(b) of the Act (33 USC 1317(b)): Arsenic,
Cadmium, Copper, Cyanide, Lead, Mercury, Nickel, Silver, total Chromium, Zinc
and Phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by the city's wastewater
treatment system.
      (11)   Any wastewater which creates conditions at or near the wastewater
disposal system which violates any statute, rule, regulation or ordinance of
any regulatory agency, or state or federal regulatory body.
      (12)   Any waters or wastes containing BOD5 or suspended solids of
character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle
the materials at the wastewater treatment works, except as may be permitted by
specific written agreement subject to the provisions of §
51.094.
§ 51.083 DISCHARGES HAZARDOUS TO LIFE OR CONSTITUTE PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which contain substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §
51.082, or which in the judgement of the Utilities Superintendent may have a
deleterious effect upon the wastewater treatment facilities, processes, or
equipment, receiving waters or soil, vegetation, and ground water, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city
may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers, pursuant to Section 307(b) of the Act (33 USC 1317(b)) and
all amendments thereof;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling, treating and
disposing of wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer service charges.
   (B)   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design, installation and maintenance of the facilities and equipment shall
be made at the owner’s expense and shall be subject to the review and approval
of the city pursuant to the requirements of the MPCA.
§ 51.084 INCREASING USE OF PROCESS WATER.
   No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any manner, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in §§
51.081 and
51.082, or contained in the National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or any
state requirements.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.085 PRETREATMENT OR FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or required
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation at the expense of the owner.
§ 51.086 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Utilities Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as specified in
§
51.082(B)(2), any flammable wastes as specified in §
51.081(A), sand or other harmful ingredients; except that interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors
shall be of the type to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal of the captured materials by
appropriate means, and shall maintain a record of dates and means of disposal
which are subject to review by the Utilities Superintendent. Any removal and
hauling of the collecting materials not performed by the owner's personnel must
be performed by a currently licensed waste disposal firm.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.087 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; INSTALLATIONS.
   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a building
sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure, or control
manhole, with necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to
facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of wastes. The structure
shall be accessible and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance
with plans approved by the city. The structure shall be installed by the owner
at his or her expense and shall be maintained by the owner to be safe and
accessible at all times.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.088 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; REQUIREMENTS.
   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial
wastes may, at the discretion of the city, be required to provide laboratory
measurements, tests or analyses of waters or wastes to illustrate compliance
with this chapter and any special condition for discharge established by the
city or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the discharge. The number,
type and frequency of sampling and laboratory analyses to be performed by the
owner shall be as stipulated by the city. The industry must supply a complete
analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge to assure that
compliance with federal, state and local standards are being met. The owner
shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analyses to the city at
times and in the manner as prescribed by the city. The owner shall bear the
expense of all measurements, analyses and reporting required by the city. At
those times as deemed necessary, the city reserves the right to take
measurements and supplies for analysis by an independent laboratory.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.089 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES OF WATERS AND WASTES.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, duration and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Utilities
Superintendent.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.090 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE OF PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a sanitary
sewer shall provide protection from an accidental discharge of prohibited
materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Where necessary,
facilities to prevent accidental discharges of prohibited materials shall be
provided and maintained at the owner's expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the Utilities Superintendent for review and approval prior to
construction of the facility. Review and approval of the plans and operating
procedures shall not relieve any user from the responsibility to modify the
user’s facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. Users
shall notify the Utilities Superintendent immediately upon having a slug or
accidental discharge of substances of wastewater in violation of this chapter
to enable countermeasures to be taken by the Utilities Superintendent to
minimize damage to the wastewater treatment works. The notification will not
relieve any user of any liability for any expense, loss or damage to the
wastewater treatment system or treatment process, or for any fines imposed on
the city on account thereof under any state and federal law. Employers shall
ensure that all employees who may cause or discover a discharge are advised of
the emergency notification procedure.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.091 PERMITTING SUBSTANCE OR MATTER TO FLOW OR PASS INTO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   No person having charge of any building or other premises which drains into
the public sewer shall permit any substance or matter which may form a deposit
or obstruction to flow or pass into the public sewer. Within 30 days after
receipt of written notice from the city, the owner shall install a suitable and
sufficient catch basin or waste trap, or if one already exists, shall clean
out, repair or alter the same, and perform other work as the Utilities
Superintendent may deem necessary. Upon the owner’s refusal or neglect to
install a catch basin or waste trap or to clean out, repair, or alter the same
after the period of 30 days, the Utilities Superintendent may cause the work to
be completed at the expense of the owner or representative thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.092 REPAIRING SERVICE CONNECTION.
   Whenever any service connection becomes clogged, obstructed, broken or out
of order, or detrimental to the use of the public sewer, or unfit for the
purpose of drainage, the owner shall repair or cause the work to be done as the
Utilities Superintendent may direct. Each day after 30 days that a person
neglects or fails to so act shall constitute a separate violation of this
section, and the Utilities Superintendent may then cause the work to be done,
and recover from the owner or agent the expense thereof by an action in the
name of the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.093 CATCH BASIN OR WASTE TRAPS REQUIRED FOR MOTOR VEHICLE WASHING OR
SERVICING FACILITIES.
   The owner or operator of any motor vehicle washing or servicing facility
shall provide and maintain in serviceable condition at all times a catch basin
or waste trap in the building drain system to prevent grease, oil, dirt or any
mineral deposit from entering the public sewer system.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.094 SPECIAL AGREEMENT AND ARRANGEMENT.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern; provided, that National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
and the city’s NPDES/SDS Permit limitations are not violated.
USER RATE SCHEDULE FOR CHARGES
§ 51.110 CHARGES GENERALLY.
   Each user of sewer service shall pay the charges applicable to the type of
service, and in accordance with the provisions set forth in this subchapter.
§ 51.111 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the subchapter is to provide for sewer service charges to
recover costs associated with operation, maintenance and replacement to ensure
effective functioning of the city’s wastewater treatment system, and local
capital costs incurred in the construction of the city’s wastewater treatment
system.
§ 51.112 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATION. Those fixed costs attributable to administration of the
wastewater treatment works such as billing and associated bookkeeping and
accounting costs.
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the city as presently
established or as amended by ordinance or other legal actions at a future time.
When used herein the term CITY may also refer to the City Council or its
authorized representative.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. A charge levied on users of wastewater treatment
facilities for the cost of repaying money bonded to construct the facilities.
   INCOMPATIBLE WASTE. Waste that either singly or by interaction with other
wastes interferes with any waste treatment process, constitutes a hazard to
humans or animals, creates a public nuisance or creates any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL USERS or INDUSTRIES.
      (1)   (a)   Entities that discharge into a publicly owned wastewater
treatment works liquid wastes resulting from the processes employed in
industrial or manufacturing processes, or from the development of any natural
resources. These are identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, latest edition, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and
supplemented under one of the following divisions:
             Division A.   Agriculture, forestry and fishing
            Division B.   Mining
            Division D.   Manufacturing
            Division E.   Transportation, communications, electric, gas, and
sanitary sewers
            Division I.   Services
         (b)   For the purpose of this definition, domestic waste shall be
considered to have the following characteristics: BOD5 - less than 287 mg/l;
Suspended solids - less than 287 mg/l.
      (2)   Any nongovernmental user of a publicly owned treatment works which
discharges wastewater to the treatment works which contains toxic pollutants or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by
interaction with other wastes to contaminate the sludge of any municipal
systems, or to injure or to interfere with any sewage treatment process, or
which constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates a public nuisance, or
creates any hazard in or has an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the treatment works.
   MAY. The term is permissive.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Activities required to provide for the dependable
and economical functioning of the treatment works, throughout the design or
useful life, whichever is longer of the treatment works, and at the level of
performance for which the treatment works were constructed. The term includes
replacement.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Expenditures for operation and maintenance,
including replacement.
   REPLACEMENT. Obtaining and installing of equipment, accessories or
appurtenances which are necessary during the design life or useful life,
whichever is longer, of the treatment works to maintain the capacity and
performance for which the works were designed and constructed.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. Expenditures for replacement.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions, together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface
waters which are not admitted intentionally.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The aggregate of all charges, including charges for
operation, maintenance, replacement, debt service, and other sewer related
charges that are billed periodically to users of the city's wastewater
treatment facilities.
   SEWER SERVICE FUND. A fund into which income from sewer service charges is
deposited along with other income, including taxes intended to retire debt
incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater treatment. Expenditure of
the sewer service fund will be for operation, maintenance and replacement costs
and to retire debt incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater
treatment.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants as defined in standards issued pursuant to Section 307(a) of the Act
(33 USC 1317(a)), which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism,
will cause adverse effects.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on a user of a treatment works for the user’s
proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance, including
replacement.
   USERS. Those residential, commercial, governmental, institutional and
industrial establishments which are connected to the public sewer collection
system.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community, also referred to as sewage. From
the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with any ground water, surface water and storm water that
may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment or processes owned or used by the
city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater, or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works including land
which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from the treatment.
§ 51.113 ESTABLISHMENT OF A SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes a Sewer Service Charge System whereby all
revenue collected from users of the wastewater treatment facilities will be
used to affect all expenditures incurred for annual operation, maintenance and
replacement and for debt service on capital expenditure incurred in
constructing the wastewater treatment works.
   (B)   Each user shall pay its proportionate share of operation, maintenance,
and replacement costs of the treatment works, based on the users proportionate
contribution to the total wastewater loading from all users.
   (C)   Each user shall pay debt service charges to retire local capital costs
as determined by the City Council.
   (D)   Sewer service rates and charges to users of the wastewater treatment
facility shall be determined and fixed in a “Sewer Service Charge System”
developed according to the provisions of this subchapter. The Sewer Service
Charge System shall be the system enacted prior to the adoption of this code.
    (E)   Revenues collected for sewer service shall be deposited in a separate
fund known as “The Sewer Service Fund.” Income from revenues collected will be
expended to off-set the cost of operation, maintenance and equipment
replacement for the facility and to retire the debt for capital expenditure.
   (F)   Sewer service charges and the sewer service fund will be administrated
in accordance with the provisions of §
51.116.
   (G)   A connection fee shall be charged to each user connecting a new
service to the Sanitary Sewer System. The connection fee shall be due and
payable within 90 days of the date the connection is completed.
   (H)   A sewer availability charge may be charged.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.114 DETERMINATION OF SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   The sewer service rates and charges to users of the wastewater treatment
facility shall be as established by ordinance or resolution prior to the
adoption of this code. Charges made for service rendered shall conform to M.S.
§ 444.075 subd. 3a, as it may be amended from time to time. All accounts shall
be carried in the name of the owner who personally, or by his authorized agent,
applied for such service. The property owner shall be liable for all sewer
services supplied to the property, whether he or she is occupying the property
or not.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.115 SEWER SERVICE FUND.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes a “Sewer Service Fund” as an income fund
to receive all revenues generated by the sewer service charge system, and all
other income dedicated to the operation, maintenance, replacement and
construction of the wastewater treatment works, including taxes, special
charges, fees and assessments intended to retire construction debt. The city
also establishes the following accounts as income and expenditure accounts
within the sewer service fund:
      (1)   Operation and maintenance account.
      (2)   Equipment replacement account.
      (3)   Debt retirement account.
   (B)   All revenue generated by the sewer service charge system, and all
other income pertinent to the treatment system, including taxes and special
assessments dedicated to retire construction debt, shall be held by the City
Clerk separate and apart from all other funds of the city. Funds received by
the sewer service fund shall be transferred to the “Operation and Maintenance
Account,” the “Equipment Replacement Account,” and the “Debt Retirement
Account” in accordance with state and federal regulations and the provisions of
this chapter.
   (C)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system sufficient to
ensure adequate replacement throughout the design life or useful life,
whichever is longer, of the wastewater facility shall be held separate and
apart in the “Equipment Replacement Account” and dedicated to affecting
replacement costs. Interest income generated by the “Equipment Replacement
Account” shall remain in the “Equipment Replacement Account.”
   (D)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system sufficient for
operation and maintenance shall be held separate and apart in the “Operation
and Maintenance Account.”
§ 51.116 ADMINISTRATION.
   The sewer service charge system and sewer service fund shall be
administrated according to the following provisions:
   (A)   The City Clerk shall maintain a proper system of accounts suitable for
determining the operation and maintenance, equipment replacement and debt
retirement costs of the treatment works, and shall furnish the City Council
with a report of those costs annually in December. The City Council shall
annually determine whether or not sufficient revenue is being generated for the
effective operation, maintenance, replacement and management of the treatment
works, and whether sufficient revenue is being generated for debt retirement.
The Council will also determine whether the user charges are distributed
proportionately to each user in accordance with §
51.113(B). The city shall thereafter, but not later than the end of the year,
reassess and as necessary revise the Sewer Service Charge System then in use to
ensure the proportionality of the user charges and to ensure the sufficiency of
funds to maintain the capacity and performance to which the facilities were
constructed, and to retire the construction debt.
   (B)   In accordance with federal and state requirements, each user will be
notified annually in conjunction with a regular billing of that portion of the
sewer service charge attributable to operation, maintenance and replacement.
   (C)   In accordance with federal and state requirements, the City Clerk
shall be responsible for maintaining all records necessary to document
compliance with the Sewer Service Charge System adopted.
   (D)    Bills for sewer service charges shall be rendered on a monthly, bi-
monthly or quarterly basis as designated by Council, succeeding the period for
which the service was rendered and shall be due ten days from the date of
rendering. Any bill not paid in full one day after the due date will be
considered delinquent. At that time the city shall notify the delinquent owner/
occupant in writing regarding the delinquent bill and subsequent penalty. The
penalty shall be computed at 10% of the original bill and shall be increased
the same 10% for every month the bill is outstanding.
   (E)   The owner of the premises shall be liable to pay for the service to
their premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the city only
upon the condition that the owner of the premises is liable therefore to the
city.
   (F)   Any additional costs caused by discharges to the treatment works of
toxics or other incompatible wastes, including the cost of restoring wastewater
treatment services, clean up and restoration of the receiving waters and
environs, and sludge disposal, shall be borne by the discharger of the wastes,
at no expense to the city.
   (G)   Each charge levied pursuant to this section shall be a lien against
the property, and all such charges due on September 30 of each year, more than
30 days past due, and having properly mailed to the occupant or owner of the
premises, shall be certified by the City Council to the County Auditor, shall
specify the amount thereof, the description of the premises, the name of the
owner thereof, and the amount so certified shall be expended upon the tax rolls
against such premises in the same manner as other taxes, and collected by the
County Treasurer and paid to the city along with other taxes.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 12-5-2018)
POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 51.130 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES PERMITTED TO ENTER ALL PROPERTIES.
   The Utilities Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city,
bearing proper credentials and identification, are authorized, with the
permission of the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of
property within the city, to enter all properties for the purpose of
inspection, observations, measurement, sampling and testing pertinent to the
discharges to the city's sewer system in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of
property within the city does not permit the entrance to the property, the city
shall obtain an administrative search warrant as provided for in §
10.20 before entering the property, except in emergency situations.
§ 51.131 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES OBTAINING INFORMATION FOR INDUSTRIAL PROCESSES.
   The Utilities Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are
authorized to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a
direct bearing on the type and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. An industry may withhold information considered confidential; however,
the industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the
information in question might result in an advantage to competitors.
§ 51.132 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES TO OBSERVE SAFETY RULES.
   While performing necessary work on private properties, the Utilities
Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the
property owner shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees
and the city shall indemnify the property owner against loss or damage to its
property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as may be caused by negligence or
failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
51.087.
§ 51.133 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES PERMITTED TO ENTER ALL PROPERTY WITH EASEMENTS.
   The Utilities Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of but not limited to inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the
easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated
easement pertaining to the private property involved.
CHAPTER 52: WATER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   General operation
   
52.02   Use of water service
   
52.03   Use to circumvent chapter prohibited
   
52.04   Damage to water system
   
52.05   Connections beyond city boundaries
   
52.06   Connection to system required; use of private wells
   
52.07   Use of water for air conditioning; permits
   
52.08   Use of water from fire hydrants; temporary connections
   
52.09   Water deficiency, shut off and use restrictions
Water Regulations
   
52.25   Supply from one service
   
52.26   Tapping of mains restricted
   
52.27   Repairs
   
52.28   Abandoned or unused services
   
52.29   Disconnection permit
   
52.30   Service pipes
   
52.31   Excavation and construction requirements
   
52.32   Connection to other water supplies restricted
   
52.33   Water connections; applications and charges
   
52.34   Location of curb stop box
   
52.35   Water meters
   
52.36   Nonessential water usage upon critical water deficiency
Rates and Charges
   
52.50   Water unit
   
52.51   Rates, fees and charges generally
   
52.52   Water service billing; change of address
   
52.53   Water rates
   
52.54   Payment of charges; late payment; collection
Administration and Enforcement
   
52.70   Supervision by Utilities Superintendent; licensing
   
52.71   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
52.72   Discontinuance of service
   
52.73   Authorized employees to turn water on and off
   
52.74   Liability for expense, loss or damage
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 GENERAL OPERATION.
   The city does hereby make provision for the establishment of a municipal
water system (hereinafter called the water system) to be operated as a public
utility.
§ 52.02 USE OF WATER SERVICE.
   No person other than a city employee shall uncover or make or use any water
service installation connected to the city water system except in the manner
provided by this chapter. No person shall make or use any installation contrary
to the regulatory provisions of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.03 USE TO CIRCUMVENT CHAPTER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall permit water from the water system to be used for any
purpose to circumvent this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.04 DAMAGE TO WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall remove or damage any structure,
appurtenance, or part of the water system or fill or partially fill any
excavation or move any gate valve used in the water system.
   (B)   No person shall make any connection of an electrical welder to the
city water main, appurtenance or service or use an electric welder for the
purpose of thawing frozen water mains, appurtenances or services.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.05 CONNECTIONS BEYOND CITY BOUNDARIES.
   Where water mains of the city are in any street or alley adjacent to or
outside the corporate limits of the city, the City Council may issue permits to
the owners or occupants of properties adjacent or accessible to the water main
to make proper water service pipe connections with the water mains of the city
and to be supplied with water in conformity with the applicable provisions of
this chapter and subject to any contract for the supply of water between the
city and any other city. The water meter pit will be in the city limits. The
city will own and maintain the water meter. The user will pay for the original
meter in the connection fee.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.06 CONNECTION TO SYSTEM REQUIRED; USE OF PRIVATE WELLS.
   (A)   Except where municipal water is not available, it shall be unlawful to
construct, reconstruct, or repair any private water system which is designed or
intended to provide water for human consumption. Private wells, to provide
water for other than human consumption, may be constructed, maintained and
continued in use after connection is made to the water system; provided, there
is no means of cross-connection between the private well and municipal water
supply at any time. Hose bibbs that will enable the cross-connection of the two
systems are prohibited on internal piping of the well system supply. Where both
private and city systems are in use, outside hose bibbs shall not be installed
on both systems.
   (B)   All new homes or buildings shall connect to the municipal water system
if water is available to the property. At the time as municipal water becomes
available to existing homes or buildings, a direct connection shall be made to
the public system within a period of time as determined by the City Council. If
the connection is not made pursuant to this chapter, a charge shall be made in
an amount established by §
52.51.
   (C)   Where new homes or buildings do not have water available to the
property, the city shall determine whether and under what conditions the
municipal water system will be extended to serve the property.
   (D)   If the well is not to be used after the time a municipal water
connection is made:
      (1)   The well pump and tank shall be disconnected from all internal
piping;
      (2)   The casing shall be filled with sandy soil from the bottom to a
point eight feet from the top;
      (3)   The remaining eight feet shall be filled with concrete to the floor
level and the well casing cut off as close to the floor level as possible;
      (4)   Within 30 days after the municipal water connection is made, the
owner or occupant must advise the City Utilities Superintendent that the well
has been sealed.
      (5)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, all well abandonment shall be done
in accordance with M.S. §§ 103I.301 to 103I.345 and Minn. Rules Ch. 4725, Wells
and Borings, as it may be amended from time to time. All well sealing shall be
performed by a professional licensed well driller trained in well abandonment.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.07 USE OF WATER FOR AIR CONDITIONING; PERMITS.
   (A)   All air conditioning systems which are connected directly or
indirectly with the public water system must be equipped with water conserving
and water regulating devices and a backflow device as approved by the City
Engineer or City Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   Permits shall be required for the installation of all air conditioning
systems to the public water system. The fee shall be established pursuant to §
52.51.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.08 USE OF WATER FROM FIRE HYDRANTS; TEMPORARY CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Use of fire hydrants. Except for extinguishment of fires, no person,
unless authorized by the Public Works Director or Public Utilities Department,
shall operate fire hydrants or interfere in any way with the water system
without first obtaining a permit to do so from the city as follows:
      (1)   A permit to use a fire hydrant shall be issued for each individual
job or contract and for a minimum of 30 days and for the additional 30 day
period as the city shall determine. The permit shall state the location of the
hydrant and shall be for the use of that hydrant and none other.
      (2)   The user shall make an advance cash deposit to guarantee payment
for water used and to cover breakage and damage to the hydrant and meter, which
shall be refunded upon expiration of the permit, less applicable charges for
use.
      (3)   The user shall relinquish the use of the hydrant to authorized city
employees in emergency situations.
      (4)   The user shall pay a rental charge as established pursuant to §
52.51 for each day including Sundays and legal holidays.
      (5)   Connections to a public water supply to fill tankers must follow
backflow prevention standards. The connection will have a reduced pressure zone
backflow device.
   (B)   Temporary connection to fire hydrants. An owner of a private water
system may make a temporary above ground connection to a fire hydrant, subject
to the time periods, conditions, and payment specified in §
52.51. In addition, the method of connection to the private system shall
conform to all existing requirements of this chapter and city ordinance and the
type of meter used shall meet the approval of the Utilities Superintendent.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.09 WATER DEFICIENCY, SHUT OFF AND USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The city shall not be liable for any deficiency or failure in the
supply of water to consumers, whether occasioned by shutting the water off for
the purpose of making repairs or connections or from any other cause
whatsoever. In case of fire, or alarm of fire, or in making repairs of
construction of new works, water may be shut off without notice at any time and
kept off as long as necessary. In addition, the City Council shall have the
right to impose reasonable restrictions on the use of the city water system in
emergency situations. For non-payment of charges, water service may be
discontinued according to the procedures established in §
52.72.
   (B)   Restricted hours. Whenever the Council determines that a shortage of
water supply threatens the city, it may, by resolution, limit the times and
hours during which city water may be used for sprinkling, irrigation, car
washing, air condition, or other specified uses. After publication of the
resolution, no person shall use, or permit water to be used, in violation of
the resolution, and any customer who does so shall be charged a fee set by
resolution of the Council for each day of violation and the charge shall be
added to his next water bill. If the emergency requires immediate compliance
with terms of the resolution, the Council may provide for the delivery of a
copy of the resolution to the premises of each customer, and any customer who
has received such notice and thereafter uses or permits water to be used in
violation of the resolution shall be subject to the charge provided above.
Continued violation shall be cause for discontinuance of water service.
WATER REGULATIONS
§ 52.25 SUPPLY FROM ONE SERVICE.
   No more than one housing unit or building shall be supplied from one service
connection except by permission of City Council. Each unit served shall have a
separate water meter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.26 TAPPING OF MAINS RESTRICTED.
   No person, except persons authorized by the City Council, shall tap any
distributing main or pipe of the water supply system or insert stopcocks or
ferrules therein.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.27 REPAIRS.
   (A)   Determination of need for repairs. Based on the information supplied
by the property owner or available to the city, the city may make a
determination whether a problem exists in that portion of the service which is
the city's responsibility. If the problem, appears to exist in the areas for
which the city has no responsibility, the private owners will be responsible
for correction of the problem.
   (B)   Thawing of water services. The city may attempt to thaw water services
on request of the resident. If the problem is found within that portion of the
service for which the private owner is responsible, the private owner
thereafter will be responsible for thawing the service and correction of the
problem.
   (C)   Excavation or repair of water service.
      (1)   The city may arrange for the investigative digging up and repair of
any water service where the problem apparently exists within that area for
which the city has responsibility.
      (2)   Unless it is clearly evident, however, that the problem is the
responsibility of the city, the excavation and repair may not be made until the
property owner requests the city in writing to excavate or repair the service
and agrees to pay the cost.
      (3)   The owner further agrees to waive public hearing and be special
assessed the cost of the excavation and repair if the problem is found to be
other than the city’s responsibility. The city may make the determination for
responsibility of the cost of investigation or repair.
      (4)   The matter of whether the dig up is done by city forces or
contracted would depend on the urgency or need of repair and the availability
of city forces to do the work. Recovery by the city for faulty construction
will depend upon the circumstances and the decision of the City Attorney on the
likelihood of recovery.
   (D)   Failure to repair. In case of failure upon the part of any consumer or
owner to repair any leak occurring in his or her service pipe within 24 hours
after verbal or written notice thereof, the water may be turned off by the city
and may not be turned on until the leak has been repaired and a fee pursuant to
§
52.51 has been paid to the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.28 ABANDONED OR UNUSED SERVICES.
   (A)   If the premises served by water have been abandoned, or if the service
has not been used for one year, then the service may be shut off at the curb
stop box by the city and the water meter will be removed.
   (B)   When new buildings are erected on the site of old ones, and it is
desired to increase or change the old water service, no connections with the
mains may be made until all the old service has been removed and the main taps
plugged or yoked connections installed by the city at the owner's expense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.29 DISCONNECTION PERMIT.
   A permit must be obtained to disconnect from the existing water service
leads at the curb stop box. The fee for the permit shall be set pursuant to §
52.51.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.30 SERVICE PIPES.
   Every service pipe shall be laid so as to allow at least one foot of extra
length in order to prevent rupture by settlement. The service pipe must be
placed no less than seven feet below the ground and in a manner as to prevent
rupture by freezing. Service pipes must extend from the curb stop box to the
inside of the building, or if not taken into the building, then to the hydrant
or fixtures which it is intended to supply. All tubing and pipes shall conform
to the Minnesota Plumbing Code. All underground joints are to be mechanical,
except joints under floors shall be soldered in accordance with the Minnesota
Plumbing Code, unless otherwise approved by the Utilities Superintendent.
Joints of copper tubing shall be kept, to a minimum, and all joints shall
conform to the Minnesota Plumbing Code. All joints and connections shall be
left uncovered until inspected by the Utilities Superintendent and must comply
to the Minnesota Plumbing Code and tested at normal water line pressure. Unions
must conform to the Minnesota Plumbing Code. Connections with the mains for
domestic supply shall be at least three- quarter inch up to the curb stop box.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.31 EXCAVATION AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No excavation shall be made until a permit for the connection has been
issued by the city.
   (B)   No water service pipe or water connection shall be installed in the
same trench or closer than ten feet horizontally to a sewer trench or drain
laid, or to be laid, either in the street or in private property, except that
the water pipe on private property may be in a common trench with a sewer drain
which is of a material that is in conformance with the current Minnesota
Plumbing Code, Minn. Rules Ch. 4715, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Where it is desired to lay the water service pipe and the building
sewer pipe in the same trench, or in separate trenches less than ten feet
apart, the water service pipe shall be above the sewer pipe unless approved by
the City Engineer. It shall be placed at least one foot above the sewer and on
a solid shelf excavated at one side of the trench. The sewer pipe shall be of a
material that is in conformance with the Minnesota Plumbing Code with tested
watertight joints. The water service pipe shall be watertight and corrosion
resistant. Copper pipe and ductile or cast iron water pipe with specially
protected joints is acceptable for this construction. Cast iron pipe shall
conform to the American Water Works Association specifications for this pipe.
Bell joint clamps with rubber gaskets are provisionally acceptable as extra
protection for the joints on cast iron water pipe. In all cases, precautions
shall be taken to assure a firm foundation for the pipes. The intervening space
between the pipes shall be backfilled with compacted earth.
   (D)   In case the installation is on a surfaced street, the following shall
apply: All backfill materials shall be mechanically compacted in 12-inch layers
to the density of the adjacent material in the roadway area and to the existing
street grades in accordance with the Minnesota Department of Transportation
Standards. Complete surface restoration shall be made.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.32 CONNECTION TO OTHER WATER SUPPLIES RESTRICTED.
   No water pipe of the water system shall be connected with any pump, well,
tank, or piping that is connected with any other source of water supply except
to service municipal systems.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.33 WATER CONNECTIONS; APPLICATIONS AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Connection applications.
      (1)   All applications for service installations and for water service
shall be made to the City Clerk. All applications for service installations and
water service shall be made by the owner or agent of the property to be served
and shall state the size and location of service connection required. The
applicant shall, at the time of making application, pay to the city the amount
of fees as established by the City Council from time to time or deposit
required for the installation of the service connection as hereinafter
provided. Applications for services larger than one inch shall be accompanied
by two sets of plans or sketches indicating preferred location of service pipe
and size of service based on building demand.
      (2)   The size of the water service connections and meter shall be
subject to approval of the City Engineer. Water meter sizing for a domestic
connection shall be 5/8 inch by 3/4 inch. The standard service line size will
be one inch. If the homeowner requests a larger service line the extra cost of
the water meter will be charged to the connection owner. The future replacement
of the water meter will be billed at the difference between the standard meter
cost and meter need to accommodate the larger line at the time of replacement.
      (3)   Water billing shall start at the time of installation of the water
meter, or in the event the meter is not installed, seven days after completion
of outside piping, and shall be calculated upon the minimum quarterly rate,
prorated on a semi-monthly basis.
   (B)   Connection charges.
      (1)   A permit must be obtained to connect to the existing water service
leads at the curb stop box. The fee for the permit shall be set pursuant to §
52.51. The city shall install or have installed all service connections from
the water main to the curb stop box including the stop box. Payment for service
connections must be made before the work is started and should be based upon 1½
times the estimate of costs provided by the City Engineer. Any excess deposit
shall be returned to the applicant.
      (2)   Additional charges shall be paid at the time of making application
for tapping and making connections with the water main to where a curb stop box
and service lead is not previously installed. The charge shall include the
tapping of the water main, corporation cocks, the installation of a service
line, the installation of a curb stop box, cost of restoring disturbed areas
and all other costs related to the installation.
      (3)   There shall be a connection charge pursuant to §
52.51 levied by the city to contribute to the payment of the costs of the
Public Water System Facilities. The City Council shall set by resolution the
charges to be made for nonresidential installations.
      (4)   When water services have been stopped because of a violation of
this chapter, the city shall collect the fee established pursuant to §
52.51 before service is recommenced.
      (5)   If a person desires to connect to the system and service a parcel
that has not been assessed for the cost of water main and lateral construction,
then before a permit is granted, the city shall collect an amount from the
applicant that is established pursuant to §
52.51.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.34 LOCATION OF CURB STOP BOX.
   Curb stop boxes will be installed on the right-of-way line or easement
limits at a location as determined by the City Engineer to be best suitable to
the property and shall be left in a vertical position when backfilling is
completed. Curb stop boxes will be installed at an approximate depth of seven
feet below the finished ground elevation and the top of the curb stop box shall
be adjusted to be flush with the finished ground elevation. Curb stop boxes
must be firmly supported by a masonry block. No person shall erect any fence or
plant any tree or other landscaping that would obstruct, or place a structure
on, park a motor vehicle on, or otherwise obstruct the use of the curb stop
box, or cause damage to the same.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.35 WATER METERS.
   (A)   Generally. Except for extinguishment of fires, no person, unless
otherwise authorized by the City Council or Public Utilities Department, shall
use water from the water system or permit water to be drawn therefrom unless
the same be metered by passing through a meter supplied or approved by the
city. No person not authorized by the City Council or Utilities Superintendent
shall connect, disconnect, take apart, or in any manner change or cause to be
changed or interfere with any meter or the action thereof, or break any meter
or valve seal.
      (1)   A charge established pursuant to §
52.51 shall be paid by customers to the city for water meters including
installations and check valves and payment for same shall be made at the time
of water service application. This payment shall be made only once, subject to
the following.
      (2)   Where a consumer has need for a larger line in addition to his or
her domestic line, as in the case of a commercial consumer who needs a one-inch
line for normal use and a six-inch or larger line for a fire sprinkler system,
he or she will be permitted to run one line into the premises and “Y” off into
two lines at the building. When this is done, the meter will be attached to the
small or domestic line and a check valve as well as one-inch detection meter
shall be put on the large line.
      (3)   The city shall maintain and repair all meters when rendered
unserviceable through ordinary wear and tear and shall replace them if
necessary. When replacement, repair, or adjustment of any meter is rendered by
the act, neglect (including damage from freezing or hot water backup) or
carelessness of the owner or occupant of the premises, any expense caused the
city thereby shall be charged against and collected from the water consumer.
      (4)   A consumer may, by written request, have his or her meter tested by
depositing the amount established pursuant to §
52.51. In case a test should show an error of over 5% of the water consumed, a
correctly registering meter will be installed, and the bill will be adjusted
accordingly and the testing deposit refunded. This adjustment shall not extend
back more than one billing period from the date of the written request.
      (5)   All water meters and remote readers shall be and remain the
property of the city.
      (6)   Authorized city employees shall have free access at reasonable
hours of the day to all parts of every building and premises connected with the
water system for reading of meters and inspections. However, city employees may
not enter private property without obtaining the permission of the owner to do
so or have obtained a search warrant issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction, as provided for in §
10.20.
      (7)   It shall be the responsibility of the consumer to notify the city
to request a final reading at the time of the customer's billing change.
   (B)   Water meter setting. All water meters hereafter installed shall be in
accordance with the Minnesota Plumbing Code and any standards established by
resolution of the City Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.36 NONESSENTIAL WATER USAGE UPON CRITICAL WATER DEFICIENCY.
   (A)   Purpose. This section establishes water conservation restrictions; and
the plan will be in effect at any time the Governor declares by executive order
a critical water deficiency, pursuant to M.S. § 103G.291.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK. In statutory cities means the person assigned duties pursuant to
M.S. § 412.151; or the City Manager pursuant to M.S. §§ 412.601 through 412.751
or in charter cities as determined by City Charter.
      DEPARTMENT. The city Water Department.
      EMERGENCY. The declaration of a critical water deficiency by the
Governor.
      IRRIGATION. The watering of shrubs, trees, sod, seeded areas, gardens,
lawns, or any other outdoor vegetation, except outdoor vegetation utilized for
agricultural purposes.
      NOTIFICATION TO PUBLIC. Notification through local media, including
interviews and issuance of news releases.
      PUBLIC WATER SUPPLIER. The city or other entity that owns, manages, or
operates a public water supply, as defined in M.S. § 144.382, subd. 4.
      RECLAIMED WATER. Water collected from rooftops, paved surfaces, or other
collection devices and all water utilized more than once before re-entering the
natural water cycle.
      WATER RECIRCULATION SYSTEM. Any system which enables a user to reuse
water at least once prior to returning the water to the natural water cycle.
   (C)   Application.
      (1)   This section applies to all customers of public water suppliers who
own or control water use on any premises.
      (2)   No person shall make, cause, use, or permit the use of water
received from a public water supply for residential, commercial, industrial,
governmental, or any other purpose in any manner contrary to any provision in
this section.
      (3)   Mandatory emergency conservation measures shall be implemented
based upon the declaration of a critical water emergency by the Governor.
   (D)   Declaration of critical water deficiency. Upon the declaration of a
critical water deficiency by the Governor, the public water supplier shall
immediately post notice of the emergency declaration at the usual meeting place
of the City Council, or the official city bulletin board. The city shall
provide notification to the public as quickly as possible or through
established water supply plans, emergency response plans, or procedures.
   (E)   Mandatory emergency water conservation measures. Upon declaration of a
water emergency and notification to the public, the following mandatory
restrictions upon nonessential water use shall be enforced:
      (1)   Outdoor irrigation of yards, gardens, golf courses, parklands, and
other non-agricultural land, except for those areas irrigated with reclaimed
water, is prohibited.
      (2)   Washing or spraying of sidewalks, driveways, parking areas, tennis
courts, patios, or other paved areas with water from any pressurized source,
including garden hoses, except to alleviate immediate health or safety hazards,
is prohibited.
      (3)   The outdoor use of any water-based play apparatus connected to a
pressurized source is prohibited.
      (4)   Restaurants and other food service establishments are prohibited
from serving water to their customers, unless water is specifically requested
by the customer.
      (5)   Operation of outdoor misting systems used to cool public areas is
prohibited.
      (6)   The filling of swimming pools, fountains, spas, or other exterior
water features is prohibited.
      (7)   The washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, and other types of
mobile equipment is prohibited, except at facilities equipped with wash water
recirculation systems, and for vehicles requiring frequent washing to protect
public health, safety, and welfare.
   (F)   Variances. The City Clerk or their designee, is authorized to grant
variances to this section where strict application of its provisions would
result in serious hardship to a customer. A variance may be granted only for
reasons involving health or safety. An applicant may appeal the denial of a
variance within five days of the decision by submitting a written appeal to the
City Clerk. The City Council shall hear the appeal at the next City Council
meeting. The decision of the City Council is final.
   (G)   Enforcement.  The City Clerk or his or her designee is authorized to
designate city employees or law enforcement personnel to enforce the provisions
of this section.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 8-8-2018) Penalty, see §
52.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.50 WATER UNIT.
   A water unit (hereinafter called unit) shall be one residential equivalent
connection based on usage of 100,000 gallons per year or portion thereof.
§ 52.51 RATES, FEES AND CHARGES GENERALLY.
   The City Council shall establish a schedule of all water rates, fees and
charges for permits or services. In accordance with M.S. § 444.075 subd 3,
charges made for service rendered shall be as nearly as possible proportionate
to the cost of furnishing the service.
§ 52.52 WATER SERVICE BILLING; CHANGE OF ADDRESS.
   All bills and notices shall be mailed or delivered to the address where
service is provided. If nonresident owners or agents desire personal notice
sent to a different address, they shall so note on the water service
application. Any change or error in address shall be promptly reported to the
City Clerk. All accounts shall be carried in the name of the owner who
personally or by his or her authorized agent, applied for the service. The
owner shall be liable for water services supplied to the property whether he or
she is occupying the property or not.
§ 52.53 WATER RATES.
   (A)   The rate due and payable by each user within the city for water taken
from the water system shall be established pursuant to §
52.51.
   (B)   In case the meter is found to have stopped, or to be operating in a
faulty manner, the amount of water used will be estimated in accordance with
the amount used previously in comparable periods of the year.
   (C)   Rates due and payable by each water user located beyond the
territorial boundaries of the city may be determined by special contract.
   (D)   The minimum rates established pursuant to §
52.51 shall begin to accrue after connection of the service pipe with the curb
stop box.
   (E)   A meter shall be installed on the water valve in the house and a
remote register outside regardless of whether inside piping is connected.
   (F)   In the event a water customer elects to discontinue the use of the
municipal water, the regular or minimum charge shall continue until the date as
service is disconnected at the curb box.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.54 PAYMENT OF CHARGES; LATE PAYMENT; COLLECTION.
    (A)   Any prepayment or overpayment of charges may be retained by the city
and applied on subsequent charges.
   (B)   All charges for water shall be due on the monthly due date specified
by the city for the respective account and shall be delinquent one day
thereafter. The city shall endeavor to collect delinquent accounts promptly and
shall assess 10% per month late fee for delinquent accounts. In any case, where
satisfactory arrangements for payments have not been made, after the procedural
requirements of division (C) of this section have been complied with, service
may be discontinued to the delinquent customer by shutting off the water at the
stop box if the respective account is delinquent.
   (C)   Procedure for shutoff of service. Water shall not be shut off under
division (B) of this section or for violation of rules and regulations
affecting utility service until notice and an opportunity for a hearing have
first been given the occupant of the premises involved. The written notice
shall either be sent by regular postal mail delivery or personally served and
shall state that if payment is not made within 20 days of the date of the
notice, the water supply to the premises will be shut off. The notice shall
also state that the occupant may, before such date, demand a hearing on the
matter, in which case the supply will not be cut off until after the hearing.
If the customer requests a hearing before the date specified, a hearing shall
be held on the matter by an impartial officer at least one week after the date
of request. If as a result of the hearing, the impartial officer finds that the
amount claimed to be owing is actually due and unpaid and that there is no
legal reason why the water supply of the delinquent customer may not be shut
off in accordance with this section, the city may shut off the supply.
   (D)   When water service to any premises has been discontinued, service
shall not be restored except upon the payment of all delinquent bills and re-
connect fee of $150. Each charge levied pursuant to this section is hereby made
a lien upon the corresponding lot, land or premises served by the connection to
the water system of the city, and all such charges which are more than 30 days
due on September 30 and have been properly billed to the owner of the premises
served, may be certified by the City Clerk to the County Auditor. The City
Clerk, in certifying such charges to the County Auditor, shall specify the
amount thereof, the description of the property and the name of the owner of
the premises served. The amount so certified shall be extended by the County
Auditor on the tax roll against such premises in the same manner as other
taxes, and paid to and collected by the County Treasurer along with other
taxes.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 12-5-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.70 SUPERVISION BY UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT; LICENSING.
   (A)   All piping connections from the curb stop box to house supply piping
shall be made under the supervision of a licensed plumber subject to inspection
by the Utilities Superintendent. The piping connection made to the curb stop
box on the house side shall be inspected by the Utilities Superintendent. The
water meter installation shall be inspected, tested and the meter sealed by the
Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of
altering, repairing, installing or constructing municipal water connections
within the city without first obtaining a license to carry on the occupation
from the city. A master plumber licensed by the state under the provisions of
M.S. § 326B.46, as it may be amended from time to time, is exempt from the
provisions of this section. A person in the ditch installing the pipe who has a
card showing that they have completed a program of training that incorporates
the Plumbing Code installation requirements, issued by either the Associated
Builders and Contractors, Laborers-Employers Cooperation Educational Trust, or
Minnesota Utility Contractors Association, is not subject to the licensing
requirements of this section.
      (1)   The applicant shall file with the City Clerk evidence of public
liability insurance, including products liability insurance with limits of at
least $50,000 per person and $100,000 per occurrence and property damage
insurance with limits of at least $10,000. Evidence of insurance required
pursuant to M.S. § 326B.46, subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to time,
shall satisfy this requirement.
      (2)   The applicant shall file with the City Clerk a surety bond
guaranteeing the conformance and compliance of work with this chapter. The bond
shall be in the amount of $2,000. The city shall hold the bond for one year
following the license period. Failure to comply with provisions and
requirements of this chapter shall result in forfeiture of the bond. The
applicant may comply with the requirements of M.S. § 326B.46, subd. 2, as it
may be amended from time to time in lieu of these requirements.
      (3)   Applications for licenses shall be filed with the City Clerk and
shall be reviewed and subject to approval of the city.
      (4)   Any installation, construction, alteration of a water connection by
a licensee in violation of any provision of this chapter or refusal on the part
of a licensee to correct the defective work shall be cause for revocation of or
refusal to renew a license. This license may be revoked or refused for renewal
by the city at any time for cause which shall be documented in writing.
   (C)   All licenses required in this section shall be renewable annually.
Applications for licenses shall be made annually on a form furnished by the
City Clerk. Licenses shall be in effect from January 1 to December 31 of the
same year. The license fee shall be established pursuant to §
52.51.
   (D)   Before any license issued under the provisions of this section may be
revoked or its renewal refused, the licensee shall be given a hearing by the
City Council to show cause why the license should not be revoked or refused.
Notice of the time, place and purpose of the hearing shall be in writing.
§ 52.71 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   The Utilities Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
city, upon proper identification, are authorized, with the permission of the
licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property within the
city, to enter upon all properties for the purpose of inspections, observation
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. If the licensee,
owner, resident or other person in control of property within the city does not
permit the entrance to the property, the city shall obtain an administrative
search warrant as provided for in §
10.20 before entering the property, except in emergency situations.
§ 52.72 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   Water service may be shut off at any connection.
§ 52.73 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES TO TURN WATER ON AND OFF.
   No person, except an authorized city employee, shall turn on or off any
water supply at the curb stop box.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.74 LIABILITY FOR EXPENSE, LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the city by
reason of the violation.
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of §
52.36 shall be determined and cited by the City Clerk or his/her designee. A
violator may appeal the citation within five days of its issuance by submitting
a written appeal to the city. The City Council shall hear the appeal at the
next City Council meeting. The decision of the City Council is final. Violators
may be granted an administrative waiver if evidence is provided that equipment
failure was the cause of the violation. A letter from a qualified vendor or
equipment invoice will be required to show proof of equipment failure.
   (B)   Upon discovery of a first violation of §
52.36, the violator shall be issued, either personally or by mail, a warning
letter that sets forth the violation and which shall describe the remedy and
fines for future violations.
   (C)   Upon subsequent violations of §
52.36 at the same location, the violator shall be issued, either personally or
by mail, a citation that sets forth the violation and shall describe the
remedy. Fines shall be added to the monthly water bill of the owner or current
occupant of the premises where the violation occurred. The imposition of the
fine shall in no way limit the right of the city to pursue other legal
remedies.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 8-8-2018)
CHAPTER 53: GARBAGE
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Purpose
   
53.03   Collection by the city
   
53.04   Garbage, rubbish, and recyclable containers
   
53.05   Storage of containers
   
53.06   Collection practices
   
53.07   Storage of garbage and rubbish
   
53.08   Disposal of demolished structure
   
53.09   Grievances
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE AND RUBBISH. Includes refuse of all kinds, both organic and
inorganic, which accumulate in the ordinary operation of the household,
including all putrescible wastes, animal offal, the carcasses of dead animals,
grass trimmings, ashes, tree branches, leaves, and other refuse small enough to
go into a 33-gallon garbage can, but specifically excluding human excreta,
sewage, and other water-carried wastes. Also excluded are all non-putrescible
wastes such as rocks, earth, sand, gravel, sand, brick, stone, plaster, wood,
and other similar substances which may accumulate as a result of construction
or demolition operations. For the purpose of this chapter, RECYCLABLES will be
defined on a periodic basis by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 911.010) (Ord. passed 7-5-1989; Ord. passed 6-6-2001)
§ 53.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to maintain and protect the public health and
sanitation of the residents of the city by the removal of garbage, rubbish, and
recyclables from residents and business places in the city and to prevent the
unregulated and unrestricted hauling of garbage, rubbish, and recyclables by
other means than through the garbage and rubbish collection system established
by this chapter so as to eliminate the dispersal of garbage, rubbish, and
recyclables along the streets, roads, and other properties in and near the
city.
(Prior Code, § 911.020) (Ord. passed 7-5-1989; Ord. passed 6-6-2001)
§ 53.03 COLLECTION BY THE CITY.
   All garbage, rubbish, and recyclables accumulated in the residences in the
city shall be collected, conveyed, and disposed of by the city or by its duly
authorized contractor. No person shall collect or dispose of any garbage,
rubbish, or recyclables accumulated from any residential premises in the city
other than his or her own except the city or its designated contractor. All
recyclables shall be placed in the recycling containers provided by the city.
(Prior Code, § 911.030) (Ord. passed 7-5-1989; Ord. passed 6-6-2001) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 53.04 GARBAGE, RUBBISH, AND RECYCLABLE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Garbage and rubbish containers shall be equipped with suitable handles
and tight-fitting covers, and shall be water-tight.
   (B)   Recyclable containers will originally be supplied at no cost to all
the residences in the city. Only the containers supplied by the city for
recyclables shall be used. Cost for replacement of containers will be charged
to the customer.
(Prior Code, § 911.040) (Ord. passed 7-5-1989; Ord. passed 6-6-2001)
§ 53.05 STORAGE OF CONTAINERS.
   Except on days scheduled for collection, garbage, rubbish, and recyclable
containers shall be stored out of view of the public street and on the day of
collection shall be made readily accessible to the collector, within ten feet
of the curb line of the public street.
(Prior Code, § 911.050) (Ord. passed 7-5-1989; Ord. passed 6-6-2001)
§ 53.06 COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   Frequency of collection. Garbage and rubbish shall be collected at
least once each week and recyclables shall be collected at least once every two
weeks according to a schedule to be determined and notice shall be given by the
city, or by its duly authorized contractor, from time to time.
   (B)   Limits on quantity. There shall be no limit as to quantity so long as
all garbage, rubbish, and recyclables are placed in appropriate containers. The
customer shall be charged a reasonable fee for any garbage and rubbish quantity
which exceeds or is in excess of the agreed weekly maximum.
   (C)   Refuse and recyclable collection service defined. The refuse and
recyclable collection service shall be considered a public utility furnished to
the residents of the city either by direct city involvement or by contract, and
in the event of nonpayment of charges which have been properly billed and are
more than 30 days delinquent, the city may certify the charge to the County
Auditor for collection with other real estate taxes. The owners of rental
property and apartments shall be responsible for charges made for the refuse
and recyclable collection service to each rental unit served and charges which
become delinquent shall be certified by the City Administrator to the County
Auditor for collection with other real estate taxes.
(Prior Code, § 911.060) (Ord. passed 7-5-1989; Ord. passed 6-6-2001)
§ 53.07 STORAGE OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH.
   No person shall place any garbage, rubbish, or recyclable in any street,
alley, or other public place or upon any private property, whether owned by
such person or not, within the limits of the city, unless it is in a proper
container for collection; nor shall any person throw or deposit any garbage,
rubbish, or recyclable in any stream or any other body of water. Any
unauthorized accumulation of garbage, rubbish, or recyclable on any premises is
hereby declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited. No person shall cast,
place, or deposit anywhere within the city any garbage, rubbish, or recyclable
in such a manner that it may be carried or deposited by the elements upon any
street, sidewalk, alley, sewer, parkway, or other public place or into any
occupied premises or unto the premises of another person.
(Prior Code, § 911.070) (Ord. passed 7-5-1989; Ord. passed 6-6-2001) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 53.08 DISPOSAL OF DEMOLISHED STRUCTURE.
   The city or its designated contractor shall charge a fee which the city
deems fair and reasonable for the disposal of refuse originating from
demolished structures from within the city.
(Prior Code, § 911.080) (Ord. passed 7-5-1989; Ord. passed 6-6-2001)
§ 53.09 GRIEVANCES.
   Any resident having a grievance relating to refuse collection service within
the city and wishing to be heard shall state their grievance in writing and
submit a copy to the City Clerk/Treasurer who shall call the grievance to the
attention of the City Council at its earliest meeting date. The City Council
shall pass on all grievances.
(Prior Code, § 911.090) (Ord. passed 7-5-1989; Ord. passed 6-6-2001)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND SELF-PROPELLED WHEEL`ED DEVICES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Highway Traffic Regulation Act incorporated by reference
   
70.02   Through streets
   
70.03   U turns
   
70.04   Motor vehicle noise
   
70.05   Exhibition driving prohibited
Cross-reference:
   Parking Regulations, see
Ch. 71
   Recreational Vehicles and Self-Propelled Wheeled Devices, see
Ch. 72
   Traffic Schedules, see
Ch. 73
§ 70.01 HIGHWAY TRAFFIC REGULATION ACT INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   The regulatory provisions of M.S. Ch. 169, as it may be amended from time to
time, and amendatory laws, are hereby adopted as a traffic ordinance regulating
the use of highways, streets, and alleys within the city and are hereby
incorporated in and made a part of this chapter as completely as if set out in
full herein.
(Prior Code, § 1401.010)
§ 70.02 THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   The City Council may designate any street or avenue as a through
street and any intersection as a stop intersection where necessary to preserve
the free flow of traffic and to prevent accidents; and shall post appropriate
signs at the entrance to such streets or intersections, but no trunk highway
shall be designated as a through street and no intersection on a trunk highway
shall be designated as a stop intersection unless the consent of the
Commissioner of Transportation to such designation is first secured.
   (B)   Every driver of a vehicle shall come to a full stop before entering
any through street or stop intersection properly designated and posted as such
by the Commissioner of Highways or the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1401.020)
§ 70.03 U TURNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person driving or operating a vehicle to make a
U turn upon any street or avenue of the city, except that such turns shall be
permitted at all intersections unless a no U turn sign is posted.
(Prior Code, § 1402.030) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.04 MOTOR VEHICLE NOISE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABNORMAL OR EXCESSIVE NOISE.
         (a)   Distinct and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort and repose of any person or
precludes a person’s enjoyment of property or affects the property’s value;
         (b)   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.69, as it may be
amended from time to time, which requires every motor vehicle to be equipped
with a muffler in good working order; or
         (c)   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.693, as it may
be amended from time to time and Minn Rules pts. 7030.1000 through 7030.1050,
as this statute and these rules may be amended from time to time, which
establish motor vehicle noise standards.
      ENGINE RETARDING BRAKE. A dynamic brake, Jake brake, Jacobs brake, C-
brake, Paccar brake, transmission brake, or other similar engine retarding
brake system which alters the normal compression of the engine and subsequently
releases that compression.
   (B)   Prohibited exhaust and noise. It shall be unlawful for any person to
discharge the exhaust or permit the discharge of the exhaust from any motor
vehicle except through a muffler that effectively prevents abnormal or
excessive noise and complies with all applicable state laws and regulations.
   (C)   Prohibited brake noise and exhaust. It shall be unlawful for the
operator of any truck to intentionally use an engine retarding brake on any
public highway, street, parking lot, or alley within the city which causes
abnormal or excessive noise from the engine because of an illegally modified or
defective exhaust system, except in an emergency.
   (D)   Statutes adopted by reference. M.S. §§ 169.69 and 169.693 (motor
vehicle noise limits), as they may be amended from time to time, and Minnesota
Rules parts 7030.1000 through 7030.1050, as these statutes and rules may be
amended from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference.
   (E)   Signs to be posted. Signs stating “Vehicle Noise Laws Enforced” may be
installed at locations deemed appropriate by the City Council to advise
motorists of the prohibitions contained in this section, except that no sign
stating “Vehicle Noise Laws Enforced” shall be installed on a state highway
without a permit from the State Department of Transportation. The provisions
this section are in full force and effect even if no signs are installed.
(Prior Code, § 1402.050) (Ord. passed 1-5-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.05 EXHIBITION DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall turn, accelerate, decelerate, or otherwise operate a motor
vehicle within the city in a manner which causes unnecessary engine noise or
backfire, unnecessary squealing of tires, unnecessary skidding, unnecessary
sliding, unnecessary swaying, unnecessary throwing of sand or gravel, or at any
time or under any circumstances do a power turn (180-degree turn), or in any
manner simulate a race or racing conditions. Squealing or screeching sounds
emitted by tires, or the throwing of sand or gravel by the tires shall be prima
facie evidence of a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 904.010) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Double parking
   
71.02   Truck parking in residential area
   
71.03   Special parking permit procedure
   
71.04   Recreational vehicle parking
   
71.05   Prohibited winter parking
   
71.06   Parking and snow emergencies
   
71.07   Parking near curbs
§ 71.01 DOUBLE PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to double park any vehicle, with the exception of
emergency services vehicles, within city limits on any street.
(Prior Code, § 1402.020) (Ord. passed 1-5-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02 TRUCK PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL AREA.
   No motor vehicle over 15,000 pounds gross capacity bearing a commercial
license and no commercially licensed trailer shall be parked or stored in a
residential area except when loading, unloading, rendering a service, or having
obtained a special parking permit, except for short-term on-street parking of
two hours or less and/or off-street parking of 72 hours or less.
(Prior Code, § 1402.020) (Ord. passed 1-5-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 SPECIAL PARKING PERMIT PROCEDURE.
   The person applying for a special parking permit shall fill out and submit
to the City Clerk/Treasurer a special parking permit application form with an
application fee of an amount set by the City Council from time to time per
vehicle. The City Council shall hold a public hearing on the application after
publication and notification by mail have occurred. Notification of the date,
time, and place of the hearing shall be published in the official newspaper of
the city at least ten days before the hearing, and in addition, persons who own
property situated wholly or partly within 350 feet of the affected property
shall receive similar, individual notifications by mail. If it approves the
special parking permit, the Council may impose conditions (including time
limits) it considers necessary to protect the public health safety and welfare.
If approved, the Clerk/Treasurer shall issue the special parking permit upon
payment of an additional amount set by the City Council from time to time per
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 1402.020) (Ord. passed 1-5-2005)
§ 71.04 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKING.
    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARKING PROHIBITION. To prevent traffic flow problems created by blockage or
partial blockage of streets by the size of recreational vehicles, and to
discourage the use of recreational vehicles as primary dwelling, except in
emergency situations, no recreational vehicle shall be parked on any city
street in a residential district except to allow for the packing or unpacking
of equipment, and for the boarding and exiting of passengers. No recreational
vehicle shall be allowed to remain on any public street for more than fo48
consecutive hours.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. All boats, canoes, all-terrain vehicles, snowmobiles,
or utility trailers used to transport boats, canoes, snowmobiles, and all-
terrain vehicles, travel campers, house trailers, slip in camper tops whether
or not attached to a truck, and motor vehicles designed, constructed, or used
to provide temporary movable living quarters.
(Prior Code, § 1402.020) (Ord. passed 1-5-2005; Am. Ord. 2019-03, passed 6-5-
2019)
Cross-reference:
   Recreational Vehicles and Self-Propelled Wheeled Devices, see
Ch. 72
§ 71.05 PROHIBITED WINTER PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or owner to abandon or cause to allow a
vehicle to remain, stand, or be parked upon any street within the city between
the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. from November 1 through April 1 of each
year.
(Prior Code, § 1402.020) (Ord. passed 1-5-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.06 PARKING AND SNOW EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BLOCK. The entire length of a roadway between its intersections with
other public streets or between its intersections with a public street and the
termination of the roadway.
      ROADWAY. The portion of a street between its curbs, or between the outer
edge of its shoulders whether such portion is constructed of concrete, asphalt,
or gravel or any combination thereof.
      VEHICLE. Any motorized or non-motorized vehicle including, but not
limited to, automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, buses, recreational vehicles,
snowmobiles, and trailers.
(Prior Code, § 905.010)
   (B)   Parking prohibited. No person, firm, or corporation shall park or
permit to be parked any vehicle within any block of any public street when,
within the preceding 12 hours, falling, or blowing snow or a combination of
falling and blowing snow has accumulated to a depth of three inches or more at
street level anywhere within that block, provided, however, that parking shall
be permitted within any block of any public street where not otherwise
prohibited whenever the entire length of roadway of such block has been cleared
of snow from curb to curb or in the case of streets without curbs, between the
outer edges of the shoulders of such street. Any vehicles parked in violation
of this section shall be towed away at owner’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 905.020)
(Ord. passed 1-18-1989; Ord. passed 1-5-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.07 PARKING NEAR CURBS.
   Every vehicle parked upon any street with a curb shall be parked parallel to
the right hand curb and with the right hand wheels of such vehicle within 12
inches of the curb except on streets where angle parking is required and
designated. On any such street, every vehicle parked shall be parked with such
vehicle facing the curb or away from the traveled portion of the street at an
angle of approximately 45 degrees from the direction of travel on the adjacent
traffic lane and aligned between the painted marking on the street or curb
indicating the parked space. No vehicle longer than 22 feet shall be parked in
any angle parking space. On any street without a curb, every vehicle shall be
parked to the right of the main traveled portion thereof and parallel thereto
facing the direction of travel in the adjacent traffic lane in such a manner as
to not interfere with the free flow of traffic. No vehicle shall park in an
area that is painted yellow. No vehicle shall park in a handicapped parking
spot without the proper license plate designator or the proper placard
designated as handicapped.
(Ord. 2016-5, passed 9-7-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND SELF-PROPELLED WHEELED DEVICES
Section
Snowmobiles
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Supplement to state laws
   
72.03   Unlawful operation
   
72.04   Equipment
   
72.05   Unattended snowmobiles
   
72.06   Restrictions may be imposed
   
72.07   Adopting state statutes by reference
   
72.08   Hours of operation
   
72.09   Operators
   
72.10   Towed devices
   
72.11   Speed limit
All-Terrain Vehicles
   
72.25   Definition
   
72.26   State laws incorporated
   
72.27   Operation generally
Self-Propelled Wheeled Devices
   
72.40   Definition
   
72.41   Impoundment
Cross-reference:
   Parking Regulations, see
Ch. 71
   Parking Schedules, see
Ch. 74
   Traffic Regulations, see
Ch. 70
SNOWMOBILES
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile while the vehicle is running or idling.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder, having the property in or title
to, a snowmobile or entitled to use possession thereof.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street, highway, or road which is improved,
designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular traffic and that portion of the
right-of-way abutting thereto.
   SNOWMOBILE. Self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow, ice, or
natural terrain steered by wheels, skis, or runners.
(Prior Code, § 1403.010)
§ 72.02 SUPPLEMENT TO STATE LAWS.
   (A)   It is the intent of this subchapter to supplement the laws of the M.S.
Ch. 168 through 171, as they may be amended from time to time, with the respect
to the operation of certain motor vehicles commonly called snowmobiles.
   (B)   This subchapter is not intended to allow what the state statutes
prohibit nor prohibit what the state statutes expressly allow.
   (C)   Where hand signals are applicable to the operation of a snowmobile, it
shall be given in all instances where operated on roads and highways.
(Prior Code, § 1403.020)
§ 72.03 UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile under the
following circumstances on private property of another person without the
express permission to do so by the owner or occupant of said property; on
public school grounds; playgrounds without permission to do so from the proper
authority; on public sidewalks; on the public skating rink during skating
season; in a manner so as to create loud, unnecessary, or unusual noise so as
to disturb or interfere with the peace and quiet of other persons; in a
careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to endanger, or be likely to
endanger the safety of any person or the property of any person.
(Prior Code, § 1403.030) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 EQUIPMENT.
   All snowmobiles operated within the city shall have the following equipment:
   (A)   Mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the noise of
operation of the vehicle to the minimum noise necessary for operating the
vehicle, and no person shall use a muffler cut out, bypass, or similar device
on said vehicles;
   (B)   Adequate brakes are required by M.S. § 169.67, as it may be amended
from time to time; and
   (C)   A safety or so called “dead man” throttle in operating condition; a
SAFETY or DEAD MAN THROTTLE is defined as a device which, when pressure is
removed from the accelerator or throttle, causes the motor to be disengaged
from the driving track.
(Prior Code, § 1403.040)
§ 72.05 UNATTENDED SNOWMOBILES.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator to leave or allow a
snowmobile to be or remain unattended on public property while the motor is
running or with the keys to start same in the ignition.
(Prior Code, § 1403.050) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 RESTRICTIONS MAY BE IMPOSED.
   The City Council may prohibit the operation of snowmobiles within the right-
of-way of the public roads or streets of other city property within the city
when, in the opinion of the City Council, the public safety and welfare so
requires.
(Prior Code, § 1403.060)
§ 72.07 ADOPTING STATE STATUTES BY REFERENCE.
   M.S. § 84.87, as it may be amended from time to time, all the provisions
thereof, one copy of which is on file in the office of the Clerk/Treasurer, is
hereby adopted by reference and made part of this subchapter as fully and
completely as though set forth in full herein.
(Prior Code, § 1403.070)
§ 72.08 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile except during daylight hours, unless
the vehicle has the necessary and proper equipment to be operated at night and
in no event shall be operated after 10:30 p.m. nor before 7:00 a.m., except
when entering or leaving the city.
(Prior Code, § 1403.080) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.09 OPERATORS.
   All persons operating a snowmobile within the city shall have a state
snowmobile safety certificate, or be a qualified operator in accordance with
the state snowmobile regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1403.090)
§ 72.10 TOWED DEVICES.
   All devices towed behind a snowmobile shall have a rigid tow bar. No ropes,
chains, or similar devices will be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 1403.100) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.11 SPEED LIMIT.
   In no event shall a snowmobile be operated at a speed in excess of 15 mph
within the city. Racing within the city shall be prohibited at all times.
(Prior Code, § 1403.110) Penalty, see §
10.99
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 72.25 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. A motorized flotation-tired vehicle of not less than
three low-pressure tires, but not more than six tires, that is limited in
engine displacement of less than 800 cubic centimeters and total dry weight of
less than 800 pounds.
(Prior Code, § 1404.010)
§ 72.26 STATE LAWS INCORPORATED.
   All provisions of M.S. Ch. 169 and M.S. §§ 84.922 through 84.929, as they
may be amended from time to time, being the chapter regulating the use of motor
vehicles and all provisions of the this code of ordinances regulating vehicular
traffic, shall apply to the operation of all-terrain vehicles, hereinafter
referred to as ATVs upon the streets of the city, except for those relating to
required equipment, those which by their nature have no application, and except
those which may be amended or altered by rules and regulations by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1404.020)
§ 72.27 OPERATION GENERALLY.
   (A)   Operation on roadways, public lands and public waterways.
      (1)   All-terrain vehicles may be operated on roadways, public lands, and
public waterways only as herein specified.
      (2)   It is unlawful to operate an ATV upon roadways, public lands, or
public waterways as follows:
         (a)   At a speed in excess of 15 mph;
         (b)   Other than single file on a roadway; or
         (c)   Carelessly or recklessly.
   (B)   Private property. It is unlawful to operate an ATV on private property
without the permission or consent of the owner or occupant.
   (C)   Minimum age of operator. It is unlawful for any person under 16 years
of age to operate an ATV on any public street, public land, or public waterways
in the city unless he or she has in his or her immediate possession a valid
driver’s license.
   (D)   Sidewalks and boulevards. It is unlawful to operate an ATV on a
sidewalk or boulevard, except that an operator may cross a sidewalk, boulevard,
or other right-of-way to obtain access to a street or alley if such crossing is
made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the direction of the sidewalk,
boulevard, or right-of-way, and provided further, that such driver yields the
right-of-way to all pedestrian or vehicular traffic which constitutes an
immediate hazard.
   (E)   Hours of operation. It is unlawful to operate an ATV within the city
limits of the city between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., except when
entering or leaving the city.
   (F)   Equipment. It is unlawful to operate an ATV unless it is equipped with
the following:
      (1)   At least one headlight and one tail light, each of minimum
candlepower prescribed by rules of the Commissioner of Conservation; or
      (2)   Headlights and tail lights lighted at all times.
   (G)   Helmet required. A person less than 18 years of age shall not operate
an ATV on public land unless wearing a safety helmet approved by the
commissioner of public safety.
   (H)   Prohibitions on owner. It is unlawful for the owner of an ATV to
permit it to be operated contrary to this section.
   (I)   Operation prohibited. Operation of ATVs is prohibited on certain
roads:
      (1)   All ditches within city limits; and
      (2)   All other public ways where operation is prohibited by another
public entity laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1404.030) Penalty, see §
10.99
SELF-PROPELLED WHEELED DEVICES
§ 72.40 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SELF-PROPELLED WHEELED DEVICES. A non-motorized platform, foot board, ski-
like device, shoe, boot, or similar object mounted on wheels and designed or
intended to propel a rider by human power or force of gravity including, but
not limited to, skateboards, rollerskis, rollerskates, rollerblades, and
bicycles. These devices do not include a wheelchair operated by a disabled
person, wagons, or strollers.
(Prior Code, § 1405.010)
§ 72.41 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any police officer who observes any violation of this subchapter is
authorized to impound the self-propelled wheeled device and to hold the same at
the Police Department. The self-propelled wheeled device shall immediately be
released to the parent or legal guardian of an operator under the age of 18
years, and shall be released to any operator 18 years or older following the
expiration of a 24-hour impoundment period.
(Prior Code, § 1405.040)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Through streets
      
II.   Speed limits
      
III.   ATV prohibitions
      
IV.   Self-propelled device operation; designated city areas
SCHEDULE I. THROUGH STREETS.
   State Street and Stearns Avenue within the city limits are hereby designated
and established as through streets and it shall be unlawful for any person to
drive his or her motor vehicle, vehicle, or bicycle upon or into said through
streets without first bringing said vehicle, motor vehicle, or bicycle to a
complete stop at the crosswalk entering into said streets. Said through streets
shall be marked and designated by a stop sign located at the corner of the
intersection into said through street.
(Prior Code, § 1402.010) (Ord. passed 1-5-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
   The speed limit on all streets and avenues within the city shall be 30 mph;
except that it shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle at a speed
greater than 20 mph on Maple Street between Central Avenue and Stearns Avenue,
on Brooks Street between Central Avenue and Stearns Avenue, on Central Avenue
between Brooks Street and Maple Street, and on Stearns Avenue between Brooks
Street and Maple Street.
(Prior Code, § 1402.040) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE III. ATV PROHIBITIONS.
   Operation of ATVs is prohibited State Street between Central Avenue and
Stearns Avenue.
(Prior Code, § 1404.030) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE IV. SELF-PROPELLED DEVICE OPERATION; DESIGNATED CITY AREAS.
   No self-propelled device shall be used or operated on, in, over, or across
any public parking lot, public street, public sidewalk, or other publicly-owned
or controlled property in the following designated areas of the city: State
Street from Stearns Avenue to Railroad Avenue.
(Prior Code, § 1405.020) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Section
   
I.   Prohibited overnight parking
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED OVERNIGHT PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or owner to abandon or cause to allow a
vehicle to remain, stand, or be parked overnight upon State Street, between
Park Avenue and Stearns Avenue, within the city.
(Prior Code, § 1402.020) (Ord. passed 1-5-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND RIGHTS-OF WAY
      
92.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
93.   TREES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Dogs and cats
   
90.03   Non-domestic animals
   
90.04   Farm animals
   
90.05   Impounding
   
90.06   Kennels
   
90.07   Nuisances
   
90.08   Seizure of animals
   
90.09   Animals presenting a danger to health and safety of city
   
90.10   Diseased animals
   
90.11   Dangerous animals
   
90.13   Basic care
   
90.14   Breeding moratorium
   
90.15   Enforcing Officer
   
90.16   Pound
   
90.17   Interference with officers
   
90.18   Chickens
   
90.19   Bees
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL.
      (1)   ANIMAL shall mean any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird,
(including all fowl and poultry) or other member commonly accepted as a part of
the animal kingdom.
      (2)   ANIMALS shall be classified as follows.
         (a)   DOMESTIC. Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated
household pets. Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall include dogs,
cats, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated rabbits, fish,
nonpoisonous, non-venomous and non-constricting reptiles or amphibians, and
other similar animals.
         (b)   NON-DOMESTIC.
            1.   Those animals commonly considered to be naturally wild and not
naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly considered to be
inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of people.
            2.   Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall include:
               a.   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae)
including lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards, and jaguars, but excluding
commonly accepted domesticated house cats;
               b.   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family
canidae) including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding
commonly accepted domesticated dogs;
               c.   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a
dog, unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet;
               d.   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any
skunk (whether or not descended), raccoon, squirrel, or ferret, but excluding
those members otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets;
               e.   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting, or inherently
dangerous member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes,
boa constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles, and alligators; or
               f.   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above, but
which can be reasonably defined by the terms of this division (2)(b),
including, but not limited to, bears, deer, monkeys, and game fish.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the custody and
control of the owner or other person, either by leash, cord, chain, or
otherwise restrained or confined.
   CAT. Both the male and female of the felidae species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
   DOG. Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets, and other domesticated animals of a dog kind.
   FARM. Those animals commonly associated with a farm or performing work in an
agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall include
members of the equestrian family (horses, mules), bovine family (cows, bulls),
sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (ducks, geese), swine (including
Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees, and other animals associated with a
farm, ranch, or stable.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association, or corporation owning,
keeping, or harboring an animal.
   RELEASE PERMIT. A fee issued by the city for the release of any animal that
has been taken to the Pound. A release of the animal may be obtained upon
payment of a fee in accordance with that regular license requirement if the
animal is unlicensed, payment of a release fee, and any maintenance costs
incurred in capturing and impounding the animal. The release fee shall be as
established from time to time by resolution of the City Council, but not less
than an amount set by the City Council from time to time the first time an
animal is impounded, an amount set by the City Council from time to time the
second time it is impounded, and an amount set by the City Council from time to
time for the third and each subsequent time the same animal is impounded. For
the purpose of a RELEASE PERMIT, any change in the registered ownership of an
animal subsequent to its impoundment and release shall reset that animal’s
impoundment count to the beginning of the fee scale.
(Prior Code, § 1301.010) (Ord. passed 2-6-2008)
§ 90.02 DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Running at large prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the dog or cat
of any person who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat, or the parents or the
guardians of any such person under 18 years of age, to run at large. Dogs or
cats on a leash and accompanied by a responsible person or accompanied by and
under the control and direction of a responsible person so as to be effectively
restrained by command as by leash, shall be permitted in streets or on public
land unless the city has posted an area with signs reading “Dogs or Cats
Prohibited”.
   (B)   Vaccinations.
      (1)   All dogs and cats kept harbored, maintained, or transported within
the city shall be vaccinated at least once every three years by a licensed
veterinarian for:
         (a)   Rabies with a live modified vaccine; and
         (b)   Distemper.
      (2)   A certificate of vaccination must be kept on file which is stated
the date of vaccination, owner’s name and address, the animal’s name (if
applicable), sex, description and weight, the type of vaccine, and the
veterinarian’s signature. Upon demand made by the Clerk/Treasurer or a police
officer, the owner shall present for examination the required certificate(s) of
vaccination for the animal(s). In cases where certificates are not presented,
the owner or keeper of the animal(s) shall have seven days in which to present
the certificate(s) to the Clerk-Treasurer or police officer. Failure to do so
shall be deemed a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 1301.020) (Ord. passed 2-6-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   It shall be illegal for any person to own, possess, harbor, or offer for
sale, any non-domestic animal within the city limits. Any owner of such an
animal at the time of adoption of this code of ordinances shall have 30 days in
which to remove the animal from the city after which time the city may impound
the animal as provided for in this section. An exception shall be made to this
prohibition for animals specifically trained for and actually providing
assistance to the handicapped or disabled, and for those animals brought into
the city as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research
laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
(Prior Code, § 1301.030) (Ord. passed 2-6-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 FARM ANIMALS.
   Farm animals, as defined by §
90.01, are not allowed in city limits, except in the Agricultural District and
except chickens as allowed by § 90.18 and bees as allowed by §
90.19. An exception shall be made to this section for those animals brought
into the city as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific
research laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
(Prior Code, § 1301.040) (Ord. passed 2-6-2008; Ord. 2024-07, passed 11-13-
2024; Ord. 2024-08, passed 11-13-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Running at large. See §
90.02(A).
   (B)   Biting animals. Any animal that has not been inoculated by a live
modified rabies vaccine and which has bitten any person, wherein the skin has
been punctured or the services of a doctor are required, shall be confined in
the City Pound for a period of not less than ten days, at the expense of the
owner. The animal may be released at the end of such time if healthy and free
from symptoms of rabies, and by the payment of all costs by the owner, however,
if the owner of the animal shall elect immediately upon receipt of notice of
need for such confinement by the officer to voluntarily and immediately confine
the animal for the required period of time in a veterinary hospital of the
owner’s choosing, not outside of the county in which this city is located, and
provide immediate proof of such confinement in such manner as may be required,
the owner may do so. If, however, the animal has been inoculated with a live
modified rabies vaccine and the owner has proof of the vaccination by a
certificate from a licensed veterinarian, the owner may confine the dog or
other animal to the owner’s property.
   (C)   Reclaiming.
      (1)   All animals conveyed to the Pound shall be kept with humane
treatment and sufficient food and water for their comfort, at least five
regular business days, unless the animal is a dangerous animal as defined under
§
90.11, in which case it shall be kept for seven regular business days or the
times specified in §
90.11, and except if the animal is a cruelly-treated animal in which case it
shall be kept for ten regular business days, unless sooner reclaimed by their
owners or keepers as provided by this section.
      (2)   In case the owner or keeper shall desire to reclaim the animal from
the Pound, the following shall be required, unless otherwise provided for in
this code or established from time to time by resolution of the City Council:
         (a)   Payment of a release fee and receipt of a release permit from
the city; and
         (b)   Payment of maintenance costs, as provided by the Pound, per day
or any part of the day while animal is in said Pound.
   (D)   Unclaimed animals. At the expiration of the times established in
division (C) above, if the animal has not been reclaimed in accordance with the
provisions of this section, the officer appointed to enforce this section may
let any person claim the animal by complying with all provisions in this
section, or the officer may sell the animal to the University of Minnesota, or
cause the animal to be destroyed in a proper and humane manner and shall
properly dispose of the remains thereof. Any money collected under this section
shall be payable to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1301.050) (Ord. passed 2-6-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 KENNELS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      KENNEL. The keeping of three or more dogs on the same premises, whether
owned by the same person or not and for whatever purpose kept, shall constitute
a KENNEL; except that a fresh litter of pups may be kept for a period of three
months before such keeping shall be deemed to be a KENNEL.
   (B)   Kennel as a nuisance. Because the keeping of three or more dogs on the
same premises is subject to great abuse, causing discomfort to persons in the
area by way of smell, noise, hazard, and general aesthetic depreciation, the
keeping of three or more dogs on the premises is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and no person shall keep or maintain a kennel within the city.
(Prior Code, § 1301.060) (Ord. passed 2-6-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07 NUISANCES.
   (A)   Habitual barking.
      (1)   Generally and definition. It shall be unlawful for any person to
keep or harbor a dog which habitually barks or cries. HABITUAL BARKING shall be
defined as barking for repeated intervals of at least five minutes with less
than one minute of interruption. The barking must also be audible off of the
owner’s or caretaker’s premises.
      (2)   Warrant required. The Animal Control Officer or police officer
shall not enter the property of the owner of an animal described in this
section unless the officer has first obtained the permission of the owner to do
so or has obtained a warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction, as
provided for in §
10.20, to search for and seize the animal.
   (B)   Damage to property. It shall be unlawful for any person’s dog or other
animal to damage any lawn, garden, or other property, whether or not the owner
has knowledge of the damage. Any animal covered by this division (B) may be
impounded as provided in this section or a complaint may be issued by anyone
aggrieved by an animal under this section, against the owner of the animal
prosecution under this section.
   (C)   Cleaning up litter. The owner of any animal or person having the
custody or control of any animal shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces
of the animal and disposing of such feces in a sanitary manner whether on their
own property, on the property of others or on public property.
   (D)   Other. Any animals kept contrary to this section are subject to
impoundment as provided in §
90.05.
(Prior Code, § 1301.070) (Ord. passed 2-6-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.08 SEIZURE OF ANIMALS.
   Any police officer or Animal Control Officer may enter upon private property
and seize any animal; provided, that the following exist:
   (A)   There is an identified complainant other than the police officer or
Animal Control Officer making a contemporaneous complaint about the animal;
   (B)   The officer reasonably believes that the animal meets either the
barking dog criteria set out in §
90.07(A) the criteria for cruelty set out in §
90.13; or the criteria for an at large animal set out in §
90.01;
   (C)   The officer can demonstrate that there has been at least one previous
complaint of a barking dog; inhumane treatment of the animal; or that the
animal was at large at this address on a prior date;
   (D)   The officer has made a reasonable attempt to contact the owner of the
property and those attempts have either failed or have been ignored;
   (E)   The seizure will not involve the forced entry into a private
residence; and
   (F)   Written notice of the seizure is left in a conspicuous place if
personal contact with the owner of the dog is not possible.
(Prior Code, § 1301.080) (Ord. passed 2-6-2008)
§ 90.09 ANIMALS PRESENTING A DANGER TO HEALTH AND SAFETY OF CITY.
   If, in the reasonable belief of any person or police officer, an animal
presents an immediate danger to the health and safety of any person, or the
animal is threatening imminent harm to any person, or the animal is in the
process of attacking any person, the officer may destroy the animal in a proper
and humane manner. Otherwise, the person or officer may apprehend the animal
and deliver it to the Pound for confinement under §
90.05. If the animal is destroyed, a charge of an amount set by the City
Council from time to time to dispose of the animal is payable by the owner of
the animal. If the animal is found not to be a danger to the health and safety
of the city, it may be released to the owner or keeper in accordance with §
90.05(C).
(Prior Code, § 1301.090) (Ord. passed 2-6-2008)
§ 90.10 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Running at large. See §
90.02(A).
   (B)   Confinement. Any animal reasonably suspected of being diseased and
presenting a threat to the health and safety of the public may be apprehended
and confined in the Pound by any person or police officer. The police officer
shall have a qualified veterinarian examine the animal. If the animal is found
to be diseased in such a manner so as to be a danger to the health and safety
of the city, the officer shall cause such animal to be painlessly killed and
shall properly dispose of the remains. The owner or keeper of the animal killed
under this section shall be liable for at least an amount set by the City
Council from time to time to cover the cost of maintaining and disposing of the
animal, plus the costs of any veterinarian examinations.
   (C)   Release. If the animal, upon examination, is not found to be diseased
within the meaning of this section, the animal shall be released to the owner
or keeper free of charge.
(Prior Code, § 1301.100) (Ord. passed 2-6-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.11 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Attack by an animal. It shall be unlawful for any person’s animal
to inflict or attempt to inflict bodily injury to any person or other animal
whether or not the owner is present. This section shall not apply to an attack
by a dog under the control of an on-duty law enforcement officer or to an
attack upon an uninvited intruder who has entered the owner’s home with
criminal intent.
      (2)   Destruction of dangerous animal. The Animal Control Officer shall
have the authority to order the destruction of dangerous animals in accordance
with the terms established by this chapter.
      (3)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:
            1.   Caused bodily injury or disfigurement to any person on public
or private property;
            2.   Engaged in any attack on any person under circumstances which
would indicate danger to personal safety;
            3.   Exhibited unusually aggressive behavior, such as an attack on
another animal;
            4.   Bitten one or more persons on two or more occasions; or
            5.   Been found to be potentially dangerous and/or the owner has
personal knowledge of the same, the animal aggressively bites, attacks, or
endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
         POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS. An animal which has:
            1.   Bitten a human or a domestic animal on public or private
property;
            2.   When unprovoked, chased, or approached a person upon the
streets, sidewalks, or any public property in an apparent attitude of attack;
or
               3.   Has engaged in unprovoked attacks causing injury or
otherwise threatening the safety of humans or domestic animals.
         PROPER ENCLOSURE.
            1.   Securely confined indoors or in a securely locked pen or
structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and to provide
protection for the animal from the elements. A PROPER ENCLOSURE does not
include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure that
would allow the animal to exit of its own volition, or any house or structure
in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the only
barriers which prevent the animal from exiting. The enclosure shall not allow
the egress of the animal in any manner without human assistance.
            2.   A pen or kennel shall meet the following minimum
specifications:
               a.   Have a minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet;
               b.   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11- gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support posts shall be one-and-one-quarter-inch or larger steel
pipe buried in the ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not
provided, the sidewalls shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground;
               c.   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided.
The cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the
sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire greater than two inches;
or
               d.   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed
of the same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the
wire greater than two inches. The gate shall be equipped with a device capable
of being locked and shall be locked at all times when the animal is in the pen
or kennel.
         UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the animal is not purposely
excited, stimulated, agitated, or disturbed.
      (4)   Designation as potentially dangerous animal. The Animal Control
Officer shall designate any animal as a potentially dangerous animal upon
receiving such evidence that such potentially dangerous animal has, when
unprovoked, then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or a
domestic animal as stated in division (A)(3) above. When an animal is declared
potentially dangerous, the Animal Control Officer shall cause one owner of the
potentially dangerous animal to be notified in writing that such animal is
potentially dangerous.
      (5)   Evidence justifying designation. The Animal Control Officer shall
have the authority to designate any animal as a dangerous animal upon receiving
evidence of the following:
         (a)   The animal has, when unprovoked, bitten, attacked, or threatened
the safety of a person or domestic animal as stated in division (A)(3) above;
or
         (b)   The animal has been declared potentially dangerous and such
animal has then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or
domestic animal as stated in division (A)(3) above.
      (6)   Authority to order destruction. The Animal Control Officer, upon
finding that an animal is dangerous hereunder, is authorized to order, as part
of the disposition of the case, that the animal be destroyed based on a written
order containing one or more of the following findings of facts:
         (a)   The animal is dangerous as demonstrated by a vicious attack, an
unprovoked attack, an attack without warning or multiple attacks; or
         (b)   The owner of the animal has demonstrated an inability or
unwillingness to control the animal in order to prevent injury to persons or
other animals.
      (7)   Procedure. The Animal Control Officer, after having determined that
an animal is dangerous, may proceed in the following manner.
         (a)   The Animal Control Officer shall cause one owner of the animal
to be notified in writing or in person that the animal is dangerous and may
order the animal seized or make such orders as deemed proper. This owner shall
be notified as to dates, times, places, and parties bitten, and shall be given
14 days to appeal this order by requesting a hearing before the City Council
for a review of this determination.
         (a)   If no appeal is filed, the orders issued will stand or the
Animal Control Officer may order the animal destroyed.
         (b)   If an owner requests a hearing for determination as to the
dangerous nature of the animal, the hearing shall be held before the City
Council, which shall set a date for hearing not more than three weeks after
demand for the hearing. The records of the Animal Control or City Clerk/
Treasurer’s offices shall be admissible for consideration by the Animal Control
Officer without further foundation. After considering all evidence pertaining
to the temperament of the animal, the City Council shall make an order as it
deems proper. The City Council may order that the Animal Control Officer take
the animal into custody for destruction, if such animal is not currently in
custody. If the animal is ordered into custody for destruction, the owner shall
immediately make the animal available to the Animal Control Officer.
         (c)   No person shall harbor an animal after it has been found by to
be dangerous and ordered into custody for destruction.
      (8)   Stopping an attack. If any police officer or Animal Control Officer
is witness to an attack by an animal upon a person or another animal, the
officer may take whatever means the officer deems appropriate to bring the
attack to an end and prevent further injury to the victim.
      (9)   Notification of new address.
         (a)   The owner of an animal which has been identified as dangerous or
potentially dangerous must notify the Animal Control Officer in writing if the
animal is to be relocated from its current address or given or sold to another
person.
         (b)   The notification must be given in writing at least 14 days prior
to the relocation or transfer of ownership.
         (c)   The notification must include the current owner’s name and
address, the relocation address, and the name of the new owner, if any.
(Prior Code, § 1301.110)
   (B)   Dangerous animal requirements.
      (1)   Requirements. If the City Council does not order the destruction of
an animal that has been declared dangerous, the City Council may, as an
alternative, order any or all of the following:
         (a)   That the owner provide and maintain a proper enclosure for the
dangerous animal as specified in division (A)(3) above;
         (b)   Post at the front and the rear of the premises with clearly
visible warning signs, including a warning symbol to inform children, that
there is a dangerous animal on the property as specified in M.S. § 347.51, as
it may be amended from time to time;
         (c)   Provide and show proof annually of public liability insurance in
the minimum amount of $300,000;
         (d)   If the animal is a dog and is outside the proper enclosure, the
dog must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or leash (not to
exceed six feet in length) and under the physical restraint of a person 16
years of age or older. The muzzle must be of such design as to prevent the dog
from biting any person or animal, but will not cause injury to the dog or
interfere with its vision or respiration;
         (e)   If the animal is a dog, it must have an easily identifiable,
standardized tag identifying the dog as dangerous affixed to its collar at all
times as specified in M.S. § 347.51, as it may be amended from time to time;
         (f)   All animals deemed dangerous by the Animal Control Officer shall
be registered with the county in which this city is located within 14 days
after the date the animal was so deemed and provide satisfactory proof thereof
to the Animal Control Officer; and
         (g)   If the animal is a dog, the dog must be licensed and up to date
on rabies vaccination. If the animal is a cat or ferret, it must be up to date
with rabies vaccination.
      (2)   Seizure. Animal Control shall immediately seize any dangerous
animal if the owner does not meet each of the above requirements within 14 days
after the date notice is sent to the owner that the animal is dangerous.
Seizure may be appealed to District Court by serving a summons and petition
upon the city and filing it with the District Court.
      (3)   Reclaiming animals. A dangerous animal seized under division (B)(2)
above, may be reclaimed by the owner of the animal upon payment of impounding
and boarding fees, and presenting proof to Animal Control that each of the
requirements under division (B)(1) above is fulfilled. An animal not reclaimed
under this section within 14 days may be disposed of as provided under division
(A)(6) above and the owner is liable to Animal Control for costs incurred in
confining the animal.
      (4)   Subsequent offenses.
         (a)   If an owner of an animal has subsequently violated the
provisions under division (A) above with the same animal, the animal must be
seized by Animal Control. The owner may request a hearing as defined in
division (A)(6) above.
         (b)   If the owner is found to have violated the provisions for which
the animal was seized, the Animal Control Officer shall order the animal
destroyed in a proper and humane manner and the owner shall pay the costs of
confining the animal.
         (c)   If the person is found not to have violated the provisions for
which the animal was seized, the owner may reclaim the animal under the
provisions of division (B)(3) above.
         (d)   If the animal is not yet reclaimed by the owner within 14 days
after the date the owner is notified that the animal may be reclaimed, the
animal may be disposed of as provided under section division (A)(6) above and
the owner is liable to the Animal Control for the costs incurred in confining,
impounding, and disposing of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 1301.120)
(Ord. passed 2-6-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.13 BASIC CARE.
   All animals shall receive from their owners or keepers kind treatment,
housing in the winter, and sufficient food and water for their comfort. Any
person not treating his or her pet in such a humane manner will be subject to
the penalties provided in this section.
(Prior Code, § 1301.130) (Ord. passed 2-6-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.14 BREEDING MORATORIUM.
   (A)   Every female dog or female cat in heat shall be confined in a building
or other enclosure in such manner that it cannot come in contact with another
dog or cat except for planned breeding.
   (B)   Upon capture and failure to reclaim the animal, every dog or cat shall
be neutered or spayed prior to being transferred to a new owner.
(Prior Code, § 1301.140) (Ord. passed 2-6-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.15 ENFORCING OFFICER.
   The Council is hereby authorized to appoint an Animal Control Officer(s) to
enforce the provisions of this section. In the officer’s duty of enforcing the
provisions of this section, he or she may from time to time, with the consent
of the Council, designate assistants.
(Prior Code, § 1301.150) (Ord. passed 2-6-2008)
§ 90.16 POUND.
   Every year the Council shall designate an official Pound to which animals
found in violation of this chapter shall be taken for safe treatment, and if
necessary, for destruction.
(Prior Code, § 1301.160) (Ord. passed 2-6-2008)
§ 90.17 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   No person shall in any manner molest, hinder, or interfere with any person
authorized by the Council to capture dogs, cats, or other animals and convey
them to the Pound while engaged in such operation. Nor shall any unauthorized
person break open the Pound, or attempt to do so, or take or attempt to take
from any agent any animal taken up by him or her in compliance with this
chapter, or in any other manner to interfere with or hinder such officer in the
discharge of his or her duties under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1301.170) (Ord. passed 2-6-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.18 CHICKENS.
   (A)   Backyard chickens, generally.
      (1)   No person shall keep a chicken within the corporate limits of the
city, except as allowed by this section. This prohibition does not apply to
those portions of the city zoned for agricultural purposes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, a person may keep
up to six female chickens (hens). The keeping of domesticated chickens shall be
permitted on single-family residential properties with a principal structure,
within all residential zoning districts, provided the owner obtains a backyard
chicken permit from the city. No permit shall be issued except in compliance
with this section.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHICKEN. All life stages of the fowl of the genus Gallus and species
Gallus domesticus, a farm bird that serves as a source of eggs or meat.
      COOP. The structure for the keeping or housing of chickens permitted by
this section.
      HEN. A female chicken.
      LICENSE. A chicken license issued pursuant to this section.
      LICENSEE. A qualified applicant to whom a license has been issued.
      ROOSTER. A male chicken. For the purpose of this section, a COCKEREL (an
immature male chicken) is included in the definition of ROOSTER.
      RUN. A fully enclosed and covered area attached to a coop where the
chickens can roam unsupervised.
   (C)   Licenses.
      (1)   License required. A licensee may keep a coop with up to six hens at
a licensed premises in compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
Roosters are not allowed. Only one chicken license may be issued per lot.
      (2)   License period. Two years; expiring December 31 of the second year,
no matter when the license was received. A license is effective when issued and
continues in effect until the license expires or is revoked pursuant to this
section. All licenses will expire on December 31. Licensees must apply for a
renewal of the license 60 days prior to the expiration of the license. Failure
to timely submit a renewal for a license will result in a late fee.
      (3)   License application. A qualified applicant that desires a license
may apply for the license using forms supplied by the City Clerk. The
application shall include, but not be limited to, the following information and
agreement:
         (a)   The address of the lot where the hens will be kept.
         (b)   Scaled drawings showing the location, size, and dimensions of
the coop and run on the lot including their distance from other structures on
the lot and neighboring property lines.
         (c)   The number of hens to be kept at the lot.
         (d)   An agreement by the qualified applicant that the licensed
premises may be inspected by the city during business hours with 24 hours’
notice to ensure compliance with this chapter.
         (e)   A statement that the qualified applicant understands the
conditions and requirements of this chapter.
         (f)   A statement that the qualified applicant is a fee title owner of
the licensed premises.
         (g)   Applicant must submit a waste disposal plan with the
application.
      (4)   License transfer application. A licensee that desires to transfer
an existing license to another qualified applicant may apply for the transfer
using forms supplied by the City Clerk and by following the same procedure
utilized for obtaining a license. An application to transfer a license shall be
executed by both the current licensee and a qualified applicant that desires to
assume the license.
      (5)   License requirements. No license shall be issued until the City
Clerk (or his or her designee) has determined all of the following conditions
have been met:
         (a)   An application has been submitted with accurate and complete
information.
         (b)   An inspection of the lot, coop and run described in the
application has been performed by the city, with the qualified applicant's
permission, and meets the standards of this section.
         (c)   Based on the application and inspection, the requirements of
this section have been met regarding the construction and location of the
chicken coop and run on the lot.
         (d)   Public health and safety will not be endangered by granting or
renewing the requested license.
      (6)   Fees. An application for a license or license transfer shall be
accompanied by the appropriate chicken license fee set forth in city fee
schedule.
      (7)   No real property interest created. Licenses are personal to the
licensee and do not run with the licensed premises. As such, they create no
rights in real estate, and they do not transfer with real estate. The rights
granted to a licensee do not apply to a tenant or other occupant of a licensed
premises.
      (8)   Any person wishing to keep chickens in the City of Eden Valley on a
property zoned as residential shall first obtain a license from the city. A
written application must be made to the City Clerk on a form provided by the
city. The application must include a site plan that shows the location of the
chicken coop including the distance of the coop from adjoining structures and
property lines and the coop's dimensions. The city may revoke a license for
failure to comply with provisions of this section or any of the license's
conditions.
   (D)   Operation and performance standards.
      (1)   General requirements.
         (a)   The principal use of the property that is licensed to have
chickens shall be single-family residential.
         (b)   The property shall contain one detached single-family structure.
Chickens shall not be permitted on vacant properties or those containing multi-
family residential buildings including, but not limited to, duplexes,
townhomes, and apartments.
         (c)   Owner must occupy premises the license was issued.
         (d)   No more than six hen chickens shall be permitted.
         (e)   No person shall keep a rooster.
         (f)   The use of chickens for cock fights is prohibited.
         (g)   Chickens must be under control, in coop/run, located in the back
of the lot, behind the principal structure of the property and shall be visibly
screened from the public street or any adjacent residential use. Chickens shall
not be kept in the principal structure, garage, front or side yards. Screening
shall be completed by shrubbery or fencing, at the same height or higher than
the coop.
         (h)   No person shall slaughter chickens on-site except when in an
area of the property not visible to the public.
         (i)   Chicken coops and attached exercise pens shall be provided for
all chickens (see requirements for coops and runs in divisions (D)(3) and (D)
(4)).
         (j)   Chickens shall be kept in coops and/or pens at all times unless
in fully fenced-in back yards while under supervision.
         (k)   All food stored for chickens shall be kept in rodent-proof
containers stored inside coops or other buildings.
         (l)   The breeding of chickens is prohibited.
         (m)   All animals shall receive from their owners or keepers' kind
treatment, adequate housing in the winter that provides protection from the
elements, and sufficient food and water for their comfort. Any person not
treating his or her pet (chicken) in such a humane manner will be subject to
the penalties provided in §
90.13.
         (n)   Chickens shall not be kept in such a manner as to constitute a
public nuisance as defined by this code. Additionally, any chicken or property
that on three or more occurrences in a 12-month period receives complaints of
noise, odor, or any other violations from more than one complaint, provided the
complaints are founded and established by the city, shall constitute a public
nuisance.
         (o)   No person, business, or entity shall maintain or cause to be
maintained any commercial business related to the keeping of chickens on
residential property.
      (2)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Chicken coop and run must be located in the rear yard area only,
screened from the public street or any adjacent residential use.
         (b)   Chicken coop and run must be set back from principal structure.
         (c)   Chicken coop and run must be not less than 25 feet from adjacent
principal dwellings.
         (d)   Chicken coop and run must be setback a minimum of ten feet from
property lines.
         (e)   Chicken coop and run shall be closer to principal structure than
adjacent dwelling structures.
         (f)   Chicken coop and run must be at least 25 feet away from
delineated wetland edge, top of the bank of the pond, filtration basin, and/or
infiltration basin.
         (g)   No structure shall be in any easement or right-of-way.
      (3)   Chicken coop minimum requirements.
         (a)   Coops and pens shall be fully enclosed including overhead and
constructed of durable materials.
         (b)   Must be elevated above ground, seven feet maximum height from
the ground. Must be protected from the elements.
         (c)   The floor area of the coop shall be a minimum of five square
feet in area per chicken, with a maximum of ten square feet per chicken.
         (d)   Must be winterized.
         (e)   Completely enclosed.
         (f)   Rodent-proof.
         (g)   Must be kept in good repair; maintained in a clean and in a
sanitary condition, free of any vermin, obnoxious smells and substances; and
maintained in such a manner not to constitute a public nuisance.
         (h)   Must comply with all zoning and health regulations, as well as
any other applicable law.
      (4)   Chicken runs minimum requirements.
         (a)   Completely enclosed and provide adequate safeguards to protect
from trespass.
         (b)   Constructed of durable materials.
         (c)   Maximum of ten square feet per chicken (60 square feet for six
hens).
         (d)   Minimum of five square feet per chicken.
         (e)   Must be protected from the elements.
         (f)   Must be winterized.
         (g)   Rodent-proof.
         (h)   Must be kept in good repair; maintained in a clean and in a
sanitary condition, free of any vermin, obnoxious smells and substances; and
maintained in such a manner not to constitute a public nuisance.
         (i)   Must comply with all zoning and health regulations, as well as
any other applicable law.
   (E)   Waste.
      (1)   All premises in which chickens are kept or maintained, including
coops, runs and pens, shall be kept clean from filth, garbage and any
substances which attract rodents. All feces shall be collected and properly
disposed, to an off-site location that accepts feces, on a regular basis.
      (2)   Chicken feces and waste shall be stored with adequate cover and
containment to minimize odors and prevent contamination into waterways and
storm sewer.
      (3)   Composting of chicken waste must be done in a compost bin first.
(Fresh chicken manure can contain Salmonella or E. Coli bacteria; adding the
manure directly to the garden can spread pathogenic organisms to the soil which
can be picked up by low growing leafy greens and fruit.)
      (4)   Dead chickens must be disposed of according to the Minnesota Board
of Animal Health rules which require chicken carcasses to be disposed of as
soon as possible after death, usually within 48 to 72 hours. Legal forms of
chicken carcass disposal include burial, off-site incineration or rendering, or
composting.
   (F)   Inspection. The city may enter and inspect any property, including the
coop, run and property of the licensee, at any reasonable time for the purpose
of investigating either an actual or suspected violation or to ascertain
compliance or noncompliance with this code. Refusal to all inspection shall
constitute grounds for revocation of the applicable license.
   (G)   Revocation. The city may revoke a license if any requirement set forth
in this chapter is violated or if the Minnesota Department of Revenue or other
governmental entity sends the city notice requiring revocation. Nothing herein
shall be interpreted as preventing the city from also prosecuting any violation
of this chapter as a criminal violation pursuant to this code.
   (H)   Right to a hearing. Except for a denial or revocation required by the
Minnesota Department of Revenue, any qualified applicant under this chapter
that has been denied the issuance or transfer of a license or any person whose
license has been revoked may, upon written request to the City Clerk promptly
made after the denial or revocation has occurred, request a hearing before the
City Council to present evidence and to appeal the decision. A request for a
hearing after the denial of a transfer application will stay the expiration of
the license until 30 days after the hearing.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 11-13-2024)
Cross-reference:
   Farm animals, see §
90.04
§ 90.19 BEES.
   (A)   Bees, generally. No person shall keep an apiary, colony, hive, or
honeybee within the corporate limits of the city, except as allowed by this
section. This prohibition does not apply to those portions of the city zoned
for agricultural purposes. No license under this section shall be issued to a
licensee, except in compliance with this section. The city may revoke a license
for failure to comply with provisions of this section or any of the permit's
conditions.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following terms
have been assigned the following meanings:
      APIARY. The assembly of one or more colonies of honeybees at a single
location.
      BEEKEEPING EQUIPMENT. Anything used in the operation of an apiary, such
as hive bodies, supers frames, top and bottom boards, and extractors.
      COLONY. An aggregate of honeybees consisting principally of workers, but
having, when perfect, one queen and at times drones, brood, combs, and honey.
      HIVE. The receptacle inhabited by a colony that is manufactured for that
purpose.
      HONEYBEE OR BEE. All life stages of the common domestic honeybee, apis
mellifera species.
      LICENSE. A honeybee license issued pursuant to this section.
      LICENSED PREMISES. The lot identified in a honeybee license.
      LICENSEE. A qualified applicant to whom a honeybee license has been
issued.
      LOT. A contiguous parcel of land under common ownership.
      QUALIFIED APPLICANT. A natural person, or a revokable trust created by a
natural person who is both a grantor of the revokable trust and serves as a
current trustee.
   (C)   Licenses.
      (1)   License required. A licensee may keep an apiary, hive, and
honeybees at a licensed premises in compliance with the requirements of this
section. Only one license may be issued per lot.
      (2)   License period. Two years; expiring December 31 of the second year,
no matter when the license was received. A license is effective when issued and
continues in effect until the license expires or is revoked pursuant to this
section. All licenses will expire on December 31. Licensees must apply for a
renewal of the license 60 days prior to the expiration of the license. Failure
to timely submit a renewal for a license will result in a late fee.
      (3)   License application. A qualified applicant that desires a license
may apply for the license using forms supplied by the City Clerk. The
application shall include, but not be limited to, the following information and
agreements:
         (a)   The address of the lot where the apiary will be kept.
         (b)   A scaled drawing showing the location, size, and dimensions of
all hives located on the lot including their distance from other structures on
the lot and neighboring property lines.
         (c)   An agreement by the qualified applicant that the licensed
premises may be inspected by the city during business hours with 24 hours'
notice to ensure compliance with this section.
         (d)   A statement that the qualified applicant understands the
conditions and requirements of this section.
         (e)   The permit applicant must show proof of having taken a
beekeeping class not more than two years prior to initial application and must
utilize beekeeping best practices to ensure that the bees do not become a
public nuisance. Class list can be found at http://www.mnbeekeepers.com/
classes.
         (f)   A statement that the qualified applicant is a fee title owner of
the licensed premises or that the fee title owner of the licensed premises has
consent to the licensee obtaining a license.
         (g)   Provide a list of all parcels abutting the property or 100 feet
from the property.
         (h)   Provide a copy of notification letter to be given to the
neighbors on the list above.
      (4)   License transfer application. A licensee that desires to transfer
an existing license to another qualified applicant may apply for the transfer
by following the same procedure utilized for obtaining a license. An
application to transfer a license shall be executed by both the current
licensee and a qualified applicant that desires to assume the license.
      (5)   License requirements. No license shall be issued until the City
Clerk (or his or her designee) has determined all of the following conditions
have been met:
         (a)   An application has been submitted with accurate and complete
information.
         (b)   An inspection of the lot and hives, which shall not yet contain
a colony, as described in the application has been performed by the city, with
the qualified applicant's permission.
         (c)   Based on the application and inspection, the requirements of
this section have been met regarding the proposed apiary on the lot.
         (d)   Public health and safety will not be endangered by granting or
renewing the requested license.
      (6)   Fees. An application for a license or license transfer shall be
accompanied by the appropriate fee set forth by the City Council in their fee
schedule.
      (7)   No real property interest created. Licenses are personal to the
licensee and do not run with the licensed premises. As such, they create no
rights in real estate, and they do not transfer with real estate.
   (D)   Operation and performance standards.
      (1)   General requirements. A licensee may conduct beekeeping at a
licensed premises. In addition, members of a licensee's household and other
persons may, from time to time, provide incidental assistance under the
licensee's supervision. The licensee shall, at all times, assure full
compliance with the requirements of this section.
         (a)   The property shall contain one detached single-family structure
or commercial structure. Honeybees shall not be permitted on vacant properties.
         (b)   The owner must occupy premises the license was issued.
         (c)   Apiaries, colonies, hives, and honeybees shall not be kept in
such a manner as to constitute a public nuisance as defined by this code.
      (2)   Colony density. No licensee shall keep more than the following
numbers of colonies on a licensed premises, based upon the size or
configuration of the licensed premises:
         (a)   One-half acre or smaller lot: two colonies.
         (b)   Larger than one-half acre but smaller than three-fourths acre
lot: four colonies.
         (c)   Larger than three-fourths acre lot but smaller than one acre
lot: six colonies.
         (d)   One acre but smaller than five acres: eight colonies.
         (e)   Larger than five acres: no restriction.
      (3)   Colony locations.
         (a)   Hives shall not be located on an empty lot.
         (b)   Hives must not be in the front yard.
         (c)   Hives must be located a minimum of ten feet from any adjacent
dwelling unit.
         (d)   Hives must be setback a minimum of 20 feet from public rights-of
way unless further restricted elsewhere in this code.
         (e)   Hives must be setback from rear and side property lines a
minimum of 25 feet.
         (f)   Flyway barrier required. All licensed premises must have a
flyway barrier, in each instance where a colony is kept less than 25 feet from
a property line of the licensed premises upon which the apiary is located, as
measured from the nearest point on the hive to the property line, the licensee
shall establish and maintain a flyway barrier at least six feet in height.
            1.   The flyway barrier must consist of either a wall, fence, dense
vegetation, or a combination thereof, which meets the approval of the city,
such that bees will fly over rather than through the material to reach the
colony.
            2.   If a flyway barrier of dense vegetation is used, the initial
planting may be four feet in height, so long as the vegetation normally reaches
six feet in height or higher, subject to all applicable zoning ordinances.
            3.   If a flyway barrier is a wall or fence, the flyway barrier
must be six feet in height, subject to all applicable zoning ordinances.
            4.   The flyway barrier must continue parallel to the licensed
premises lot line for ten feet in either direction from the hive or contain the
hive or hives in an enclosure at least six feet in height.
            5.   A flyway barrier is not required if the property adjoining the
licensed premises lot line is:
               i.   Undeveloped; or
               ii.   Zoned agricultural, industrial or is outside of the city
limits.
            6.   All flyway barriers must meet applicable zoning requirements.
         (g)   Honeybee colonies shall be kept in hives with removable frames,
which shall be kept in sound and usable condition.
         (h)   A licensee shall maintain his or her beekeeping equipment in
good condition, including keeping the hives painted if they are peeling or
flaking, and securing unused equipment from weather, potential theft, or
vandalism, and occupancy by swarms.
         (i)   It shall not be a defense to a violation of this section that a
licensee's unused equipment attracted a swarm, and that the licensee is not
intentionally keeping bees. However, the licensee must abate the swarm that the
licensee is not intentionally keeping upon discovery of the swarm.
         (j)   Each licensee shall ensure that a convenient source of water is
available to the colony so long as colonies remain active outside of the hive.
         (k)   The colony shall not be a nuisance to any member of the public.
Any licensed premise that on three or more occurrences in a 12-month period
receives complaints of nuisances, from more than one complaint, provided the
complaints are founded and established by the city, shall constitute a
nuisance.
   (E)   Inspection. The City Inspector or their designee may inspect a
licensed premises during the city's normal business hours with at least 24
hours' notice to the licensee or other occupant of the licensed premises.
Refusal to allow inspection shall constitute grounds for revocation of the
applicable honeybee license.
   (F)   Revocation. The city may revoke a license if any requirement set forth
in this section is violated or if the Minnesota Department of Revenue sends the
city notice requiring revocation. Nothing herein shall be interpreted as
preventing the city from also prosecuting any violation of this section as a
criminal violation pursuant to §
10.99.
   (G)   Right to a hearing. Except for a denial or revocation required by the
Minnesota Department of Revenue, any qualified applicant under this section
that has been denied the issuance or transfer of a license or any licensee
whose license has been revoked may, upon written request to the City Clerk
promptly made after the denial or revocation has occurred, request a hearing
before the City Council to present evidence and to appeal the decision. A
request for a hearing after the denial of a transfer application will stay the
expiration of the license until 30 days after the hearing.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed 11-13-2024)
Cross-reference:
   Farm animals, see §
90.04
CHAPTER 91: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
Street Names
   
91.01   Street names and avenues
   
91.02   Map
Public Works Reserve Fund for Street Improvement
   
91.15   Pursuant to state law
   
91.16   Reserving funds
   
91.17   Use of funds
   
91.18   Vote
   
91.19   Investment of funds
Right-Of-Way Construction Regulations
   
91.30   Election to manage the public right-of-way
   
91.31   Definitions and adoption of rules by reference
   
91.32   Permit requirement
   
91.33   Permit applications
   
91.34   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
91.35   Permit fees
   
91.36   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
91.37   Supplementary applications
   
91.38   Denial of permit
   
91.39   Installation requirements
   
91.40   Inspection
   
91.41   Work done without a permit
   
91.42   Supplementary notification
   
91.43   Revocation of permits
   
91.44   Mapping data; information required
   
91.45   Location of facilities
   
91.46   Damage to other facilities
   
91.47   Right-of-way vacation
   
91.48   Indemnification and liability
   
91.49   Abandoned facilities; removal of abandoned facilities
   
91.50   Appeal
   
91.51   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
STREET NAMES
§ 91.01 STREET NAMES AND AVENUES.
   All the streets and avenues within the city shall be named herein as noted
in §
91.02 and shall be known by those names hereafter.
(Prior Code, § 702.010) (Ord. passed 4-2-1980)
§ 91.02 MAP.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2ed6621e961c9569e255cba3f64952c3f0cec3d6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1171.png]
(Prior Code, § 702.020) (Ord. passed 4-2-1980)
PUBLIC WORKS RESERVE FUND FOR STREET IMPROVEMENT
§ 91.15 PURSUANT TO STATE LAW.
   There is established a Fund to be known as the “Public Works Reserve Fund
for Street Improvement”.
(Prior Code, § 701.010)
§ 91.16 RESERVING FUNDS.
   There shall be accumulated in such Public Works Reserve Fund for street
improvement the proceeds from the sale of the Eden Valley Municipal Liquor
Store, and such other revenues as may be directed by the Council to be placed
in the fund and are not required by statute to be paid into some other fund or
used for purposes other than those provided in §
91.17.
(Prior Code, § 701.020)
§ 91.17 USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The principal of the Public Works Reserve Fund for street improvement
shall be used only for the replacement of curb and gutter on State Street
between Meeker Avenue and Coleman Avenue.
   (B)   The interest earned on the unpaid balance of the sale of the Eden
Valley Municipal Store, and the interest earned on the principal of the Public
Works Reserve Fund shall be used only for street improvements or sewer or water
main construction.
(Prior Code, § 701.030)
§ 91.18 VOTE.
   (A)   The Council may submit to the voters at any regular or special
election the question of using such fund, or portion thereof, for some other
purpose than specified in §
91.17.
   (B)   If a majority of votes cast on the question is in favor of such
diversion, the fund or portion thereof may be used for the newly approved
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 701.040)
§ 91.19 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   The Council shall provide for the investment of the Public Works Reserve
Fund for street improvement in obligations in which investment of municipal
funds and as amended by Laws 1965, Ch. 300.
(Prior Code, § 701.050)
RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
§ 91.30 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   In accordance with the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative, and common law, the city hereby elects pursuant to
this subchapter to manage rights-of-way within its jurisdiction.
§ 91.31 DEFINITIONS AND ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   Minn. Rules Ch. 7819, as it may be amended from time to time, is hereby
adopted by reference and is incorporated into this code as if set out in full.
The definitions included in M.S. § 237.162, as it may be amended from time to
time, Minn. Rules pt. 7819.0100, subps. 1 through 23, and Minn. Rules pt.
7560.0100, subps. 1 through 12, are hereby adopted by reference and are
incorporated into this subchapter as if set out in full.
§ 91.32 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way without first having obtained the
appropriate permit from the city.
      (1)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required to excavate
that part of the right-of- way described in the permit and to hinder free and
open passage over the specified portion of the right- of-way by placing
facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified
therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit. An obstruction permit is required to hinder
free and open passage over the specified portion of right-of-way by placing
equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the extent and for the
duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not required if a person
already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same project.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless the person makes a
supplementary application for another right-of- way permit before the
expiration of the initial permit and a new permit or permit extension is
granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rules pt. 7819.1000, subp. 3,
as it may be amended from time to time, and notwithstanding division (B) above,
the city shall establish and impose a delay penalty for unreasonable delays in
right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration. The delay
penalty shall be provided as set by the City Council from time to time.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this subchapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the Clerk/Treasurer,
Utilities Superintendent, or other person designated by the Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.33 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit shall contain, and will be considered complete only
upon compliance with the requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project, and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities, and the following information:
      (1)   Each permittee’s name, gopher one-call registration ticket number,
address, and e-mail address if applicable, and telephone and facsimile numbers;
      (2)   The name, address, and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration;
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state, or a
form of self-insurance acceptable to the Clerk/Treasurer, Utilities
Superintendent, or other person designated by the Council;
         (b) Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees, and permittees, and placement and use of
facilities and equipment in the right-of-way by the registrant, its officers,
agents, employees, and permittees, including, but not limited to, protection
against liability arising from completed operations, damage of underground
facilities, and collapse of property;
         (c)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all coverages;
         (d)   Requiring that the Clerk/Treasurer, Utilities Superintendent, or
other person designated by the Council be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term; and
         (e) Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile liability
coverage, worker’s compensation, and umbrella coverage established by the
Clerk/Treasurer, Utilities Superintendent, or other person designated by the
Council in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to carry
out the purposes and policies of this subchapter.
      (4)   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies;
      (5)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the document issued by
the Secretary of State within 30 days of the application pursuant to M.S. §
302A.155, as it may be amended from time to time; and
      (6)   A copy of the person’s order granting a certificate of authority
from the State Public Utilities Commission or other applicable state or federal
agency, where the person is lawfully required to have the certificate from the
Commission or other state or federal agency.
   (B)   Payment of money due the city for:
      (1)   Permit fees, estimated restoration costs, and other management
costs, as set by the City Council from time to time;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city
because of the applicant’s prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-
way or any emergency actions taken by the city; or
      (4)   Franchise fees or other charges, as set by the City Council from
time to time if applicable.
§ 91.34 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this subchapter, the Clerk/Treasurer, Utilities Superintendent, or other person
designated by the Council shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The director may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use. In addition, a permittee shall comply with all
requirements of local, state, and federal laws, including, but not limited to,
M.S. §§ 216D.01 through 216D.09 (Gopher One-Call Excavation Notice System), as
they may be amended from time to time, and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560.
   (C)   Trenchless excavation. As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including, but not limited
to, horizontal directional drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
M.S. Ch. 216D, as it may be amended from time to time, and Minn. Rules Ch.
7560, and shall require potholing or open cutting over existing underground
utilities before excavating, as determined by the city.
§ 91.35 PERMIT FEES.
   Permit fees shall be in an amount as set by the City Council from time to
time.
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. The city shall establish an excavation permit
fee, as set by the City Council from time to time, in an amount sufficient to
recover the following costs:
      (1)   The city management costs; and
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstruction permit fee. The city shall establish the obstruction
permit fee, as set by the Council from time to time, and it and shall be in an
amount sufficient to recover the city management costs.
   (C)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of excavation or obstruction permit fees. The
city may allow applicant to pay those fees within 30 days of billing.
   (D)   Non-refundable. Permit fees, as set by the City Council from time to
time, were paid for a permit that the Clerk/Treasurer, Utilities
Superintendent, or other person designated by the Council has revoked for a
breach as stated in §
91.43, are not refundable.
   (E)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
   (F)   Compliance with state regulations. All permit fees shall be
established consistent with the provisions of Minn. Rules pt. 7819.1000, as it
may be amended from time to time.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.36 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under this
subchapter.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. The permittee shall patch its own work. The
city may choose either to have the permittee restore the right-of-way or to
restore the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, the
permittee shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If following
the restoration, the pavement settles due to the permittee’s improper
backfilling, the permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing,
all costs associated with having to correct the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it may be required at the time of application for an excavation permit
to post a construction performance bond or a deposit in accordance with the
provisions of Minn. Rules pt. 7819.3000, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform patching and restoration
according to the standards and with the materials specified by the city and
shall comply with Minn. Rules pt. 7819.1100, as it may be amended from time to
time. The Clerk/Treasurer, Utilities Superintendent, or other person designated
by the Council shall have the authority to prescribe the manner and extent of
the restoration, and may do so in written procedures of general application or
on a case-by-case basis.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching, or restoration performed by the permittee or its agents. The
permittee, upon notification from the Clerk/Treasurer, Utilities
Superintendent, or other person designated by the Council, shall correct all
restoration work to the extent necessary, using the method required by the
Clerk/Treasurer, Utilities Superintendent, or other person designated by the
Council. The work shall be completed within five calendar days of the receipt
of the notice from the Clerk/Treasurer, Utilities Superintendent, or other
person designated by the Council, not including days during which work cannot
be done because of circumstances constituting force majeure or days when work
is prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under this subchapter.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the Clerk/Treasurer, Utilities
Superintendent, or other person designated by the Council, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the Clerk/
Treasurer, Utilities Superintendent, or other person designated by the Council,
the Clerk/Treasurer, Utilities Superintendent, or other person designated by
the Council at his or her option may do the work. In that event the permittee
shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the
right-of-way. If the permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise
its rights under the construction performance bond.
   (F)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee, as set by
the City Council from time to time, however, the right-of- way user shall
remain responsible for patching and the degradation fee shall not include the
cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
§ 91.37 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater area
make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees required
thereby, and be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates.
      (1)   A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates specified in the
permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit start date or, except
as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
      (2)   If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it
must apply for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the
new permit or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date
of the previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before
the permit end date.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.38 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements and
conditions of this subchapter or if the city determines that the denial is
necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its current use.
§ 91.39 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching, and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules pt.
7819.1100, as it may be amended from time to time and other applicable local
requirements, in so far as they are not inconsistent with M.S. §§ 237.162 and
237.163, as they may be amended from time to time.
§ 91.40 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
Minn. Rules pt. 7819.1300, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Site inspection. The permittee shall make the work-site available to
city personnel and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all
reasonable times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of Clerk/Treasurer, Utilities Superintendent, or other
person designated by the Council.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the Clerk/Treasurer, Utilities
Superintendent, or other person designated by the Council may order the
immediate cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life,
health, safety, or wellbeing of the public.
      (2)   The Clerk/Treasurer, Utilities Superintendent, or other person
designated by the Council may issue an order to the permittee for any work
which does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable
standards, conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct
the violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the Clerk/
Treasurer, Utilities Superintendent, or other person designated by the Council
that the violation has been corrected. If proof has not been presented within
the required time, the Clerk/Treasurer, Utilities Superintendent, or other
person designated by the Council may revoke the permit pursuant to §
91.43.
§ 91.41 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations.
      (1)   Each person with facilities in the right-of-way shall immediately
notify the city of any event regarding its facilities which it considers to be
an emergency. The owner of the facilities may proceed to take whatever actions
are necessary to respond to the emergency. Within two business days after the
occurrence of the emergency, the owner shall apply for the necessary permits,
pay the fees associated therewith and fulfill the rest of the requirements
necessary to bring itself into compliance with this subchapter for the actions
it took in response to the emergency.
      (2)   If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding facilities, the
city will attempt to contact the local representative of each facility owner
affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event, the city may
take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost
of which shall be borne by the person whose facilities occasioned the
emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit, and as a penalty, pay double
the normal fee for the permit, pay double all the other fees required by this
code, deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to the
right-of-way, and comply with all of the requirements of this subchapter.
§ 91.42 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, the permittee shall notify the Clerk/
Treasurer, Utilities Superintendent, or other person designated by the Council
of the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
§ 91.43 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach.
      (1)   The city reserves its right, as provided herein, to revoke any
right-of-way permit, without a fee refund if there is a substantial breach of
the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule, or regulation, or any
material condition of the permit.
      (2)   A substantial breach by the permittee shall include, but shall not
be limited, to the following:
         (a)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way
permit;
         (b)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the
right-of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or
deceit upon the city or its citizens;
         (c)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
         (d)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner; unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittees control; or
         (e)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
91.40.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation, or any condition of the permit, the city shall
make a written demand upon the permittee to remedy that violation. The demand
shall state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the
permit. A substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its
discretion, to place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate
and remedy the breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, the permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city, that will cure the breach. The permittee’s failure to
so contact the city, or the permittee’s failure to submit an acceptable plan,
or the permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be
cause for immediate revocation of the permit.
   (D)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city’s reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys’ fees
incurred in connection with the revocation.
§ 91.44 MAPPING DATA; INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Information required. Each permittee shall provide mapping information
required by the city in accordance with Minn. Rules pts. 7819.4000 and
7819.4100, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Service laterals.
      (1)   All permits issued for the installation or repair of service
laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minn. Rules pt. 7560.0150,
subp. 2, shall require the permittee’s use of appropriate means of establishing
the horizontal locations of installed service laterals, and the service lateral
vertical locations in those cases where the city reasonably requires it.
      (2)   Permittees or other subcontractors shall submit to the city
evidence of the installed service lateral locations. Compliance with this
division (B) and with applicable Gopher State One-Call law and Minnesota Rules
governing service laterals installed after December 31, 2005, shall be a
condition of any city approval necessary for:
         (a)   Payments to contractors working on a public improvement project
including those under M.S. Ch. 429, as it may be amended from time to time; or
         (b)   City approval of performance under development agreements, or
other subdivision or site plan approval under M.S. Ch. 462, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (C)   Failure to provide information. The city shall reasonably determine
the appropriate method of providing such information. Failure to provide prompt
and accurate information on the service laterals installed may result in the
revocation of the permit issued for the work or for future permits to the
offending permittee or its subcontractors.
§ 91.45 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Compliance required. Placement, location, and relocation of facilities
must comply with applicable laws, and with Minn. Rules pts. 7819.3100,
7819.5000 and 7819.5100, as they may be amended from time to time, to the
extent the rules do not limit authority otherwise available to cities.
   (B)   Corridors.
      (1)   The city may assign specific corridors within the right-of-way, or
any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of facilities
that is or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will someday be
located within the right-of-way.
      (2)   All excavation, obstruction, or other permits issued by the city
involving the installation or replacement of facilities shall designate the
proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
   (C)   Limitation of space.
      (1)   To protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its current use, the Clerk/Treasurer, Utilities
Superintendent, or other person designated by the Council shall have the power
to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional facilities within the
right-of-way.
      (2)   In making those decisions, the Clerk/Treasurer, Utilities
Superintendent, or other person designated by the Council shall strive to the
extent possible to accommodate all existing and potential users of the right-
of-way, but shall be guided primarily by considerations of the public interest,
the public’s needs for the particular utility service, the condition of the
right-of-way, the time of year with respect to utilities, the protection of
existing facilities in the right-of-way, and future city plans for public
improvements and development projects which have been determined to be in the
public interest.
§ 91.46 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   (A)   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support, or move facilities to protect it, the Clerk/Treasurer,
Utilities Superintendent, or other person designated by the Council shall
notify the local representative as early as is reasonably possible and placed
as required.
   (B)   (1)   The costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant
and must be paid within 30 days from the date of billing. Each facility owner
shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-
way which it or its facilities damages.
      (2)   Each facility owner shall be responsible for the cost of repairing
any damage to the facilities of another registrant caused during the city’s
response to an emergency occasioned by that owner’s facilities.
§ 91.47 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   If the city vacates a right-of-way which contains the facilities of a
registrant, the registrant’s rights in the vacated right-of-way are governed by
Minn. Rules pt. 7819.3200, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 91.48 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By applying for and accepting a permit under this subchapter, a permittee
agrees to defend and indemnify the city in accordance with the provisions of
Minn. Rules pt. 7819.1250, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 91.49 ABANDONED FACILITIES; REMOVAL OF ABANDONED FACILITIES.
   Any person who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-way shall remove
them from that right-of- way if required in conjunction with other right-of-way
repair, excavation, or construction, unless this requirement is waived by the
Clerk/Treasurer, Utilities Superintendent, or other person designated by the
Council.
§ 91.50 APPEAL.
   A right-of-way user that has been denied registration; has been denied a
permit; has had a permit revoked; believes that the fees imposed are invalid;
or disputes a determination of the city regarding §
91.44(B) of this subchapter, may have the denial, revocation, or fee imposition
reviewed, upon written request, by the City Council. The City Council shall act
on a timely written request at its next regularly scheduled meeting. A decision
by the City Council affirming the denial, revocation, or fee as imposition will
be in writing and supported by written findings establishing the reasonableness
of the decision.
§ 91.51 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   A permittees or registrants rights are subject to the regulatory and police
powers of the city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to protect
the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances
   
92.01   Public nuisance
   
92.02   Public nuisances affecting health
   
92.03   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
92.04   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
92.05   Nuisance parking and storage
   
92.06   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
92.07   Building maintenance and appearance
   
92.08   Duties of city officers
   
92.09   Abatement
   
92.10   Recovery of cost
Tobacco Use
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   Regulations
   
92.17   Exceptions
Nauseous Refuse
   
92.20   Prohibitions generally
   
92.21   Complaints
Open Burning
   
92.35   Definitions
   
92.36   Restrictions
Junk Cars and Scrap Machinery
   
92.50   Definitions
   
92.51   Parking or abandonment of junk cars prohibited
   
92.52   Impounding of junk cars
Disposal of Organic Matter at City Brush Site
   
92.65   Definition
   
92.66   Disposal of organic matter restricted
Elimination of Weed and Snow Accumulation
   
92.70   Definitions
   
92.71   Weed growth and poisonous plants determined nuisance
   
92.72   Weed growth prohibited
   
92.73   Accumulation on sidewalks prohibited
   
92.74   Duty of property owner
   
92.75   Notice of violation
   
92.76   Appeal
   
92.77   Failure to comply
   
92.78   Owner responsible for payment
NUISANCES
§ 92.01 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   A person must not act, or fail to act in a manner that is or causes a public
nuisance. For purpose of this chapter, a person who does any of the following
is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, which is a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage any public
highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Does any other act or omission declared by law or §§
92.02,
92.03 or
92.04, or any other part of this code to be a public nuisance and for which no
sentence is specifically provided.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license.
   (L)   All unnecessary and annoying vibrations.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized and permitted by federal, state or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining that place. For the purposes of this
section INTOXICATING LIQUOR shall mean any ethyl alcohol, distilled, fermented,
spirituous, vinous or malt beverage containing more than ½% alcohol by volume;
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating
liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or illegal
purpose.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 24 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   All obnoxious noises in violation of Minn. Rules Ch. 7030, as they may
be amended from time to time which are hereby incorporated by reference into
this code;
   (E)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharging of the
exhaust of any stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all terrain vehicle, snowmobile or any recreational device
except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud or
explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
   (F)   The using or operation or permitting the using or operation of any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine or
other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a distinctly and loudly
audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of any person
nearby. Operation of any device referred to above between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at the property line
of the structure or building in which it is located, or at a distance of 50
feet if the source is located outside a structure or building shall be prima
facie evidence of violation of this section;
   (G)   No person shall participate in any party or other gathering of people
giving rise to noise, unreasonably disturbing the peace, quiet, or repose of
another person. When a police officer determines that a gathering is creating
such a noise disturbance, the officer may order all persons present, other than
the owner or tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to
disperse immediately. No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered by a
police officer to do so. Every owner or tenant of such premises who has
knowledge of the disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the
disturbance is stopped;
   (H)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds except under conditions as are
permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (I)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (J)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (K)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not constructed
and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (L)   The allowing of rain water, ice or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (M)   Any barbed wire fence less than six feet above the ground and within
three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (N)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (O)   Waste water cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other
public properties;
   (P)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies or other material in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health or safety
hazards from accumulation;
   (Q)   Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
another condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (R)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter or ditch with trash of other materials;
   (S)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
   (T)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
   (U)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone.
   (V)   (1)   Noises prohibited.  
         (a)   General prohibition. No person shall make or cause to be made
any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys, disturbs,
injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety, or welfare of
any person or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property's
value. This general prohibition is not limited by the specific restrictions of
this section.
         (b)   Defective vehicles or loads. No person shall use any vehicle so
out of repair or so loaded as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling, or other noise.
         (c)   Loading, unloading, unpacking. No person shall create loud or
excessive noise in loading, unloading, or unpacking any vehicle.
         (d)   Radios, phonographs, paging systems, and the like. No person
shall use or operate or permit the use or operation of any radio receiving set,
musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine or other device for the
production or reproduction of sound in a distinct and loudly audible manner as
to unreasonably disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of any person nearby.
Operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine or other device
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly
audible at the property line of the structure or building in which it is
located, in the hallway or apartment adjacent, or at a distance of 50 feet if
the source is located outside a structure or building, shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section.
         (e)   Schools, churches, hospitals, and the like. No person shall
create any excessive noise on a street, alley or public grounds adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, church or hospital when the noise unreasonably
interferes with the working of the institution or disturbs or unduly annoys its
occupants or residents and when conspicuous signs indicate the presence of such
institution.
      (2)   Hourly restriction of certain operations.
         (a)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill or
other similar domestic power maintenance equipment except between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m. on any weekend or holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this
provision.
         (b)   Refuse hauling. No person shall collect or remove garbage or
refuse in any residential district except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on
any weekend or holiday.
         (c)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel, or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. on any weekend or holiday.
      (3)   Noise impact statements. The Council may require any person
applying for a change in zoning classification or a permit or license for any
structure, operation, process, installation or alteration or project that may
be considered a potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a
form prescribed by the Council. It shall evaluate each such statement and take
its evaluation into account in approving or disapproving the license or permit
applied for or the zoning change requested.
   (W)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
footcandles as measured on the property line of the property where the lighting
is located when abutting any residential parcel, and one footcandle when
abutting any commercial or industrial parcel.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 NUISANCE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking and storage on
residentially-zoned property of large numbers of vehicles and vehicles,
materials, supplies or equipment not customarily used for residential purposes
in violation of the requirements set forth below is declared to be a public
nuisance because it (a) obstructs views on streets and private property, (b)
creates cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas, (c) prevents the full use of
residential streets for residential parking, (d) introduces commercial
advertising signs into areas where commercial advertising signs are otherwise
prohibited, (e) decreases adjoining landowners' and occupants' enjoyment of
their property and neighborhood, and (f) otherwise adversely affects property
values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Unlawful parking and storage.
      (1)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of ice fish houses, skateboard ramps, playhouses or other similar non-permanent
structures outside continuously for longer than 24 hours in the front-yard area
of residential property.
      (2)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery, or similar materials, including all
materials used in connection with a business, outside on residential property,
unless shielded from public view by an opaque cover or fence.
      (3)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles on residential property unless it complies with
the following requirements:
         (a)   No more than four vehicles per lawful dwelling unit may be
parked or stored anywhere outside on residential property, except as otherwise
permitted or required by the city because of nonresidential characteristics of
the property. This maximum number does not include vehicles of occasional
guests who do not reside on the property.
         (b)   Vehicles that are parked or stored outside in the front-yard
area must be on a paved or graveled parking surface or driveway area.
         (c)   Vehicles, watercraft and other articles stored outside on
residential property must be owned by a person who resides on that property.
Students who are away at school for periods of time but still claim the
property as their legal residence will be considered residents on the property.
(Am. Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-5-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Declaration of a nuisance. Any motor vehicles described in this
section constitute a hazard to the health and welfare of the residents of the
community in that such vehicles can harbor noxious diseases, furnish a shelter
and breeding place for vermin and present physical danger to the safety and
well-being of children and citizens; and vehicles containing fluids which, if
released into the environment, can and do cause significant health risks to the
community.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep, park, store or abandon any motor vehicle
which is not in operating condition, partially dismantled, used for repair of
parts or as a source of repair or replacement parts for other vehicles, kept
for scrapping, dismantling or salvage of any kind, or which is not properly
licensed for operation with the state, pursuant to M.S. § 168.13, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a motor vehicle enclosed in a building
and/or kept out of view from any street, road or alley, and which does not
foster complaint from a resident of the city. A privacy fence is permissible.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Buildings, fences and other structures that
have been so poorly maintained that their physical condition and appearance
detract from the surrounding neighborhood are declared to be public nuisances
because they (a) are unsightly, (b) decrease adjoining landowners and
occupants' enjoyment of their property and neighborhood, and (c) adversely
affect property values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Standards. A building, fence or other structure is a public nuisance
if it does not comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   No part of any exterior surface may have deterioration, holes,
breaks, gaps, loose or rotting boards or timbers.
      (2)   Every exterior surface that has had a surface finish such as paint
applied must be maintained to avoid noticeable deterioration of the finish. No
wall or other exterior surface may have peeling, cracked, chipped or otherwise
deteriorated surface finish on more than 20% of:
         (a)   Any one wall or other flat surface; or
         (b)   All door and window moldings, eaves, gutters, and similar
projections on any one side or surface.
      (3)   No glass, including windows and exterior light fixtures, may be
broken or cracked, and no screens may be torn or separated from moldings.
      (4)   Exterior doors and shutters must be hung properly and have an
operable mechanism to keep them securely shut or in place.
      (5)   Cornices, moldings, lintels, sills, bay or dormer windows and
similar projections must be kept in good repair and free from cracks and
defects that make them hazardous or unsightly.
      (6)   Roof surfaces must be tight and have no defects that admit water.
All roof drainage systems must be secured and hung properly.
      (7)   Chimneys, antennae, air vents, and other similar projections must
be structurally sound and in good repair. These projections must be secured
properly, where applicable, to an exterior wall or exterior roof.
      (8)   Foundations must be structurally sound and in good repair.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.08 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   For purposes of §§
92.08 and
92.09, the Police Department, or Sheriff or person designated by the City
Council under §
10.20, if the city has at the time no Police Department, may enforce the
provisions relating to nuisances. Any peace officer or designated person shall
have the power to inspect private premises and take all reasonable precautions
to prevent the commission and maintenance of public nuisances. Except in
emergency situations of imminent danger to human life and safety, no police
officer or designated person shall enter private property for the purpose of
inspecting or preventing public nuisances without the permission of the owner,
resident or other person in control of the property, unless the officer or
person designated has obtained a warrant or order from a court of competent
jurisdiction authorizing the entry, as provided in §
10.20.
§ 92.09 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice. Written notice of violation; notice of the time, date, place
and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of City Council
order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be given as
set forth in this section.
      (1)   Notice of violation. Written notice of violation shall be served by
a peace officer or designated person on the owner of record or occupant of the
premises either in person or by certified or registered mail. If the premises
is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the owner of record or
occupant refuses to accept notice of violation, notice of violation shall be
served by posting it on the premises.
      (2)   Notice of City Council hearing. Written notice of any City Council
hearing to determine or abate a nuisance shall be served on the owner of record
and occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or registered
mail. If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the
owner of record or occupant refuses to accept notice of the City Council
hearing, notice of City Council hearing shall be served by posting it on the
premises.
      (3)   Notice of City Council order. Except for those cases determined by
the city to require summary enforcement, written notice of any City Council
order shall be made as provided in M.S. § 463.17 (Hazardous and Substandard
Building Act), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Notice of motion for summary enforcement. Written notice of any
motion for summary enforcement shall be made as provided for in M.S. § 463.17
(Hazardous and Substandard Building Act), as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (B)   Procedure. Whenever a peace officer or designated person determines
that a public nuisance is being maintained or exists on the premises in the
city, the officer or person designated may notify in writing the owner of
record or occupant of the premises of such fact and order that the nuisance be
terminated or abated. The notice of violation shall specify the steps to be
taken to abate the nuisance and the time within which the nuisance is to be
abated. If the notice of violation is not complied with within the time
specified, the officer or designated person shall report that fact forthwith to
the City Council. Thereafter, the City Council may, after notice to the owner
or occupant and an opportunity to be heard, determine that the condition
identified in the notice of violation is a nuisance and further order that if
the nuisance is not abated within the time prescribed by the City Council, the
city may seek injunctive relief by serving a copy of the City Council order and
notice of motion for summary enforcement or obtain an administrative search and
seizure warrant and abate the nuisance.
   (C)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement. In cases of emergency, where
delay in abatement required to complete the notice and procedure requirements
set forth in divisions (A) and (B) of this section will permit a continuing
nuisance to unreasonably endanger public health safety or welfare, the City
Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance. To proceed with
summary enforcement, the officer or designated person shall determine that a
public nuisance exists or is being maintained on premises in the city and that
delay in abatement of the nuisance will unreasonably endanger public health,
safety or welfare. The officer or designated person shall notify in writing the
occupant or owner of the premises of the nature of the nuisance and of the
city's intention to seek summary enforcement and the time and place of the City
Council meeting to consider the question of summary enforcement. The City
Council shall determine whether or not the condition identified in the notice
to the owner or occupant is a nuisance, whether public health, safety or
welfare will be unreasonably endangered by delay in abatement required to
complete the procedure set forth in division (A) of this section, and may order
that the nuisance be immediately terminated or abated. If the nuisance is not
immediately terminated or abated, the City Council may order summary
enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition which
poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.10 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city or a person who has caused a public nuisance on a property
not owned by that person shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of
the abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Clerk or other official shall
prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon the amount
shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Assessment. After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as
it may be amended from time to time, if the nuisance is a public health or
safety hazard on private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public
sidewalks, the growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled
portion of streets, or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City Clerk shall,
on or before September 1 next following abatement of the nuisance, list the
total unpaid charges along with all other charges as well as other charges for
current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101 against each separate lot
or parcel to which the charges are attributable. The City Council may then
spread the charges against the property under that statute and other pertinent
statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collection along with
current taxes the following year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten,
as the City Council may determine in each case.
Penalty, see §
10.99
TOBACCO USE
§ 92.15 DEFINITIONS.
   The following word or term when used in this subchapter shall have the
following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products, and materials of any kind
that are knowingly or intentionally used in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing cannabis products into the human body.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT. Any product made out of cannabis concentrate, a product
infused with cannabinoid, including but not limited to tetrahydrocannabinol,
extracted or derived from cannabis plants or cannabis flower, and edible
cannabis products.
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE. Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia, cannabis product, or any other substance intended for human
consumption that can be used by a person to simulate smoking in the delivery of
nicotine, cannabis product, or any other substance through inhalation of vapor
from the product. Electronic delivery devices include any component part of
such a product whether or not sold separately. An electronic delivery device
does not include any product approved or certified by the United States Food
and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco-cessation product, as a tobacco-
dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is marketed and sold for
such an approved purpose.
   PARK. A park, conservation area, playground, beach, recreation center or
other area in the citv owned, leased or used, wholly or in part, by the city
for such purposes or which is designated by the City Council as a park.
   SMOKING. The inhaling, exhaling or combustion of any cigarette, cigar, pipe
or any other lighted smoking equipment or cannabis paraphernalia, including
inhaling or exhaling vapor from any electronic delivery device. Smoking
includes, but is not limited to, the carrying a lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe
or any other lighted smoking equipment or cannabis paraphernalia.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Cigarettes, cigars, cheroots, stogies, perigue, granulated,
plug cut, crimpt cut, ready, rugged and other smoking tobacco; snuff, snuff
flower, cavendish, plug and twist tobacco; fine cut and other chewing tobaccos;
shorts, refuse scripts, clippings, cuttings, and sweepings of tobacco; and
other kinds and forms of tobacco, prepared in such a manner as to be suitable
for chewing, sniffing, or smoking in a pipe; rolling paper; or other tobacco-
related devices.
   TOBACCO USE. Smoking, chewing, snuffing or otherwise inhaling or ingesting
any tobacco product.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 9-4-2019; Ord. 2023-02, passed 7-26-2023)
§ 92.16 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall use tobacco products or cannabis products including
electronic delivery devices and cannabis paraphernalia on city-owned parks,
playgrounds, conservation areas and open spaces, including trails used for
walking and biking or on property for which the city retains a perpetual
easement for public use as a park. These areas shall be posted by appropriate
signs and markers as directed by the Park Director.
   (B)   No person shall use tobacco products or cannabis products including
electronic delivery devices and cannabis paraphernalia at city-owned picnic
shelters during private rentals of these facilities. These areas shall be
posted by appropriate signs and markers as directed by the Park Director.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the use of tobacco products in motor
vehicles parked on the premises of city-owned parks, conservation areas, open
spaces and recreational facilities.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 9-4-2019; Ord. 2023-02, passed 7-26-2023)
§ 92.17 EXCEPTIONS.
   The prohibitions of this subchapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Private residences;
   (B)   Locations where smoking is expressly authorized by state or federal
law or rule;
   (C)   Motor vehicles;
   (D)   The use of tobacco and cannabis products as part of a recognized
religious ritual, activity or ceremony; and
   (E)   The use of medical cannabis products.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 9-4-2019; Ord. 2023-02, passed 7-26-2023)
NAUSEOUS REFUSE
§ 92.20 PROHIBITIONS GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, or company or corporation to
maintain, keep, or dump nauseous refuse within the city limits so as to annoy
or cause discomfort to other residents of the city.
(Prior Code, § 902.010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.21 COMPLAINTS.
   Any person wishing to make complaint of an alleged violation of §
92.20, other ordinance, or state law shall make said complaint to the City
Board of Health, who shall investigate said complaint within a period of 24
hours. The Board shall then rule on the complaint and take necessary action.
(Prior Code, § 902.020)
OPEN BURNING
§ 92.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BURNABLE ORGANIC MATTER. Leaves, grass clippings, dried vegetation, twigs,
and tree limbs not exceeding two inches in diameter.
   GARBAGE. Discarded material resulting from the handling, processing,
storage, preparation, serving, and consumption of food.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter whereby the resultant combustion
products are emitted directly to the atmosphere without passing through an
adequate stack, duct, or chimney. (Permit required.)
   RECREATIONAL FIRE/CAMPSITE. A fire for recreational, ceremonial or social
food preparation conducted with restrictions, see §
92.36. (No permit required.)
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid waste such as paper, cardboard, and other
matter not including garbage.
   5+ ACRE BURN/SPECIAL BURN PERMIT. Open burning on lots of five acres or
larger subject to the requirements listed in §
92.36. (Burning permit required.)
(Prior Code, § 1501.010) (Ord. passed 10-3-2001; Ord. 2020-004, passed 8-5-
2020)
§ 92.36 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)    An alternative to open burning is the citv compost site, which
residents may use to bring leaves, brush and small branches.
   (B)   No burning is allowed on streets, sidewalks or other public rights-of-
way without specific permission.
   (C)   The city shall not be held liable for any damages to health or
property of anyone that was caused by smoke, ash, or fire. Any claims of health
or property damage will be solely the responsibility of the person whose fire
caused the damage.
   (D)   Open burning (permit required).
      (1)   The open burning of burnable organic matter shall be permitted from
October 1 to November 15 of each year. A burning permit, issued by the City
Clerk/Treasurer is required.
      (2)   The burning shall be conducted as far away as practical from any
highway or public road and controlled so that a traffic hazard is not created.
      (3)   The fire is at least 25 feet from all structures and at least 75
feet from the high-water mark on any lakeshore property;
      (4)   A three-foot pit or ring (campfire type) for the fire or an above-
ground fire pit no larger than 36 inches in diameter, with a screen that must
be used at all times (cover optional);
      (5)   A fire extinguisher is available at all times while the fire is
burning (a garden hose hooked up to a water supply is sufficient); and
      (6)   An adult must be present at all times until the fire is completely
extinguished.
      (7)   Open burning fires must be immediately extinguished if they pose a
fire safety risk, if they are not in compliance with the above, or when
directed to do so by a police officer, firefighter, fire chief or DNR Officer.
      (8)   Fire Chief or City Clerk may choose to deny a burning permit at any
time.
   (E)   Recreational fire/campfire (no permit required). Recreational fires
are permitted within the city limits provided they follow the following rules:
      (1)   Recreational fires must be at least 25 feet from all buildings or
combustible materials.
      (2)   The fire must be constantly attended by an adult until the fire
burns out completely or is extinguished.
      (3)   A three-foot pit or ring (campfire type) for the fire or an above-
ground fire pit no larger than 36 inches in diameter, with a screen that must
be used at all times (cover optional).
      (4)   A minimum of one portable fire extinguisher or garden hose shall be
readily available at all times until the fire is extinguished.
      (5)   The only materials permitted in a recreational fire are dimensional
lumber, wood from trees, small branches, brush or charcoal.
      (6)   Recreational fires/campfires must be immediately extinguished if
they pose a fire safety risk, if they are not in compliance with the above, or
when directed to do so by a police officer, firefighter, fire chief or DNR
Officer.
      (7)   The burning of leaves, paper, yard waste or garbage is prohibited.
(A burning permit is required to burn brush or leaves--see §
92.36(D).)
   (F)   5+ acre burn/special permit required. This permit is limited to the
following restrictions:
      (1)   Site map detailing location of burn must be provided with permit
application. Fire Chief or representative may inspect location prior to issuing
permit.
      (2)   Parcels five acres or larger.
      (3)   The location of the burn shall not be within 100 feet of anv
structure (out building, residence, garage, etc.).
      (4)   Hours of the burn are limited to 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 a.m.
      (5)   An adult must be present during the entire burn. The permit must be
on site and available for inspection if requested.
      (6)   Use a clean burning device to start the fire (oils, rubber and
other similar smoke producing materials are prohibited).
      (7)   The prevailing winds, at the time of the burn, shall be away from
nearby residences and buildings. Strong or gusty winds will cancel permit. No
burning is allowed if wind is over 12 mph. (We encourage you to contact the
National Weather Service for an up-to-date fire weather forecast prior to
burning.
      (8)   Keep this fire under control and assume responsibility for all
damages and costs (including fire department expenses if they are needed).
      (9)   The burn must be at least 75 feet from the high-water mark on any
lakeshore (creek) property.
      (10)   A person shall not start or cause a fire to be started on any land
that is not owned or under their legal control without written permission of
the owner. Lessee or an agent of the owner or lessee of the land.
      (11)   Fires must be immediately extinguished if they pose a fire safely
risk, if they are not in compliance with the above, or when directed to do so
by a police officer, firefighter, fire chief or DNR Officer.
(Prior Code, § 1501.020) (Ord. passed 9-22-1993; Ord. passed 12-3-1997; Ord.
passed 10-3-2001; Ord. passed 6-9-2004; Ord. 2020-004, passed 8-5-2020)
Penalty, see §
10.99
JUNK CARS AND SCRAP MACHINERY
§ 92.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK CAR. Any vehicle which is not in operable condition, or which is
partially dismantled, or which is used for sale of parts or as a source of
repair or replacement parts for other vehicles, or which is kept for scrapping,
dismantling, or salvage of any kind or which is not properly licensed for
operation within the state or by the state, unless special permission has been
granted by the City Council.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is not a street or
highway.
   STREETS AND HIGHWAYS. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open for the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power, designed to
travel along the ground, and transport persons or property or pull machinery.
(Prior Code, § 1502.010)
§ 92.51 PARKING OR ABANDONMENT OF JUNK CARS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall park, keep, place, store, or abandon any junk car or
vehicle on a public street, highway, roadway, or alley within the city.
   (B)   No person in charge or control of any property within the city,
whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, shall allow any junk
car or vehicle to remain on such property longer than two weeks.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   To a vehicle in an enclosed building;
      (2)   To a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful manner, when necessary to the operations of such business, and any such
vehicle shall not remain on said premises for a period of more than 30 days
unless special permission has been granted by the Council;
      (3)   To a vehicle that is screened from public view on at least three
sides; or
      (4)   To a vehicle classified as “collector”, “classic”, or “pioneer” and
is licensed as such under state law.
(Prior Code, § 1502.020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.52 IMPOUNDING OF JUNK CARS.
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of Police or any member of his or her Department
designated by him or her is hereby authorized to remove or have removed any
vehicle left at any place within the city which appears to be in violation of
this subchapter or is lost, stolen, or unclaimed.
      (2)   At least ten days prior to removal of any junk car or vehicle form
any property, the owner of said junk car or vehicle shall be notified of such
action by certified mail.
   (B)   (1)   When a junk car or vehicle is taken into custody, the Police
Department shall give notice of the taking within ten days.
      (2)   The notice shall set forth the date and place of taking, the year,
make, model, and serial number of the junk car or vehicle and the place where
the junk car or vehicle is being held, shall inform the owner and any
lienholders of their right to reclaim the vehicle, and shall state that failure
of the owner or lienholder to exercise their right to reclaim shall be deemed a
waiver by them of all right, title, and interest in the car or vehicle and a
consent to the sale of the car or vehicle.
      (3)   Said notice shall be sent by certified mail to the registered
owner, if any, of the car or vehicle and to all readily identifiable
lienholders of records.
      (4)   If it is impossible to determine the identity and address of the
registered owner and all lienholders, said notice shall be published once in
the official newspaper of the city.
   (C)   The owner or any lienholder of a junk car or vehicle shall have a
right to reclaim such car or vehicle from the city, upon payment of all towing
and storage charges resulting from taking said car or vehicle into custody
within 15 days after the date of the notice required in division (B) above.
   (D)   The city shall not be held liable for any damage done to the junk car,
vehicle, or property in the course of the lawful removal of a junk car or
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 1502.030)
DISPOSAL OF ORGANIC MATTER AT CITY BRUSH SITE
§ 92.65 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ORGANIC MATTER. Described as follows: leaves; grass; grass clippings; or
small branches up to four inches in diameter.
(Prior Code, § 1505.010) (Ord. passed 5-4-2005)
§ 92.66 DISPOSAL OF ORGANIC MATTER RESTRICTED.
   A city brush site shall be designated. Only items of organic matter as
described in §
92.65 are allowed to be dumped at the city brush site. Only organic matter from
within the city limits shall be allowed at the brush site.
(Prior Code, § 1505.020) (Ord. passed 5-4-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
ELIMINATION OF WEED AND SNOW ACCUMULATION
§ 92.70 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   CITY. The city of Eden Valley, Minnesota.
   NOTICE. Written notice indicating the address or approximate location of the
property in question, delivered personally to the owner of the property or sent
by certified and regular mail to the address shown on the property tax
statement for the property (and to the property address if applicable). If an
address is not available on the property tax statement, the notice may be made
by posting on the property.
   OWNER. Any and all owners of the fee interest in the property or the person
or entity to whom the tax statements are mailed in accord with the County
Auditor's records.
   WEEDS. Includes all noxious weeds and prohibited noxious weeds as defined in
M.S. §§ 18.77 and 21.81, as amended, and also all useless and troublesome
plants as are commonly known as weeds to the general public.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 8-5-2020)
§ 92.71 WEED GROWTH AND POISONOUS PLANTS DETERMINED NUISANCE.
   The city has determined that allowing the growth of weeds, grasses and other
rank to levels above six inches in height as well as the permitting of
poisonous plants, ragweed and other plants detrimental to health are a nuisance
to the owners and occupants of adjacent property and the citizens of the city.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 8-5-2020)
§ 92.72 WEED GROWTH PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any owner of property located within the city, whether or
not such property is occupied, to permit or maintain the growth of weeds,
grasses or rank vegetation to a height of greater than six inches or any
accumulation of dead weeds or grass (with the exception of compost piles) on
said property or upon right-of-way adjacent to said property between the
property line and the curb (if no curb exists the edge of surface of the
roadway) or on or along any alley adjacent to said property from the property
line to the center of the alley.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 8-5-2020)
§ 92.73 ACCUMULATION ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   The owner of property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use due diligence
to keep such walk safe for pedestrians. No such owner shall allow snow, ice,
dirt or rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 12 hours after it is
deposited thereon.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 8-5-2020)
§ 92.74 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNER. 
   It shall be the duty of the owner to cause the removal of all weeds, grasses
or other rank, and poisonous and harmful vegetation. A property owner's duty to
cut and remove such weeds and other items shall extend to boulevards and
unimproved alleyways adjacent to said owner's property. It shall also be the
duty of the owner to cause the removal of all snow, ice, dirt, and rubbish from
all public sidewalks located on a property.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 8-5-2020)
§ 92.75 NOTICE OF VIOLATION. 
   (A)   When a property owner allows prohibited weed growth or sidewalk
accumulation to exist in violation of this subchapter, the Chief of Police or
City Clerk or Weed Inspector may serve notice upon said owner ordering the
owner to remove the prohibition within five days of the date of the notice.
   (B)   The notice shall state that in case of noncompliance, the work may be
completed by the city at the expense of the owner and that if unpaid, the
charge for such work will be made a special assessment against the property
concerned.
   (C)   The notice shall also inform the property owner that the order may be
appealed by filing a written notice of appeal with the City Clerk within the
two days of the date of notice.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 8-5-2020)
§ 92.76 APPEAL.
   If an owner who received an order to remove a prohibition believes that the
order has been wrongly issued, said owner may appeal the order by filing with
the City Clerk a written notice of appeal within two days of the date of the
notice. Upon receipt of notice of an appeal the City Clerk shall place the
matter on the next regular Council Agenda, when the matter will be heard by the
City Council. After due consideration, the City Council shall decide whether
the order will stand. In the event the Council determines that the order is
appropriate, the owner shall have two days from the date of the Council's
decision to comply with the order.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 8-5-2020)
§ 92.77 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If an owner who has received an order under this subchapter fails to comply
within the applicable time frame, the city or its duly authorized agents, may
cut and remove such prohibitions in violation of this subchapter. A record
showing the cost of such work attributable to each separate parcel shall be
kept and delivered to the City Clerk for billing purposes.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 8-5-2020)
§ 92.78 OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR PAYMENT.
   (A)   In the event the city is required to take action to bring any property
in compliance with this subchapter, the owner of the property shall be
responsible to pay all such costs and expenses incurred by the city (including
costs and expenses associated with city staff time).
   (B)   Upon determining such costs and expenses of the city, the owner of the
property will be sent an invoice by regular mail (sent to the address shown on
the property tax statement for the property).
   (C)   In the event the invoice is not paid in full within 30 days of the
date of mailing, the City Clerk may certify said expenses to the City Council
for assessment against the property.
   (D)   Thereupon, said costs and expenses shall become a levied special
assessment against the property to be paid in the following year together with
the property taxes.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 8-5-2020)
CHAPTER 93: TREES
Section
   
93.01   Identification of diseased trees
   
93.02   Removal of dead trees
   
93.03   Notification of owner
   
93.04   Abatement procedure
   
93.05   Appeal procedure
   
93.06   Assessment
§ 93.01 IDENTIFICATION OF DISEASED TREES.
   The identification of trees suspected of being diseased shall be carried out
by an authorized representative of the Department of Natural Resources, or
authorized city personnel.
(Prior Code, § 908.010)
§ 93.02 REMOVAL OF DEAD TREES.
   No person shall maintain upon his or her property, whether private or
otherwise, any dead trees. If any dead trees shall exist upon private property,
it shall be the responsibility of the landowner to remove said dead trees.
(Prior Code, § 910.010) (Ord. passed 3-5-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 NOTIFICATION OF OWNER.
   Written notice shall be given to the owner of any trees found to be dead or
diseased. This notice shall state that the property owner shall have ten days
from the date of the notice to remove and properly dispose of all dead or
diseased trees located on his or her property. All removal and disposal costs
shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 908.020)
§ 93.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   Whenever the city determines with reasonable certainty that diseased or dead
trees create a public nuisance, the city is authorized to abate a public
nuisance according to the procedures in this section.
   (A)   The city will notify in writing the owner of record or occupant of the
premises that a public nuisance exists and order that the nuisance be
terminated or abated. The notice may be given in person or by mail. Failure of
any party to receive the mail does not invalidate the service of the notice. A
copy of the notice shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   (B)   The notice of abatement shall state that unless the public nuisance is
abated by the owner or occupant, it will be abated by the city at the expense
of the owner or occupant. The notice shall specify the control measures to be
taken to abate the nuisance, and provide a reasonable amount of time to abate
the nuisance. The notice will also state that the owner or occupant has the
right to appeal the determination that a public nuisance exists by submitting a
request in writing to the City Clerk within seven days after service of the
notice, or before the date by which abatement must be completed, whichever
comes first.
   (C)   If no timely appeal is submitted, and the control measures prescribed
in the notice of abatement are not complied with within the time provided by
the notice or any additional time granted, the city shall have the authority to
obtain permission or an administrative search warrant, enter the property, and
carry out abatement in accordance with the notice of abatement.
§ 93.05 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   If the City Clerk receives a written request for a hearing on the
question of whether a public nuisance exists, the City Council shall hold a
hearing within seven calendar days following receipt by the clerk of the
written request. At least three days notice of the hearing shall be given to
the individual who made the written request for the hearing. The Council may
modify the abatement notice or extend the time by which abatement must be
completed. Each owner, agent of the owner, occupant, and lienholder of the
subject property or properties in attendance, if any, shall be given the
opportunity to present evidence at the hearing. After holding the hearing, the
City Council may issue an order requiring abatement of the nuisance.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the city, without notice or
other process, from immediately abating any condition that poses an imminent
and serious hazard to human life or safety.
§ 93.06 ASSESSMENT.
   The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been abated by the city shall
be personally liable for the cost to the city of the abatement, including
administrative costs. As soon as the work has been completed and the cost
determined, the City Clerk or other official shall prepare a bill for the cost
and mail it to the owner. Thereupon the amount shall be immediately due and
payable at the office of the City Clerk. Unpaid charges may be assessed under
M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to time, and certified against
the property for collection along with taxes.
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
111.   LIQUOR REGULATIONS
      
112.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
113.   CANNABIS BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
110.03   Licensing; exemptions
   
110.04   License ineligibility
   
110.05   License suspension and revocation
   
110.06   License transferability
   
110.07   Registration
   
110.08   Prohibited activities
   
110.09   Exclusion by placard
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to- street, or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of offering for sale, displaying, or exposing for sale, selling, or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise or other personal property that the person is carrying or
otherwise transporting. The term PEDDLER shall mean the same as the term
HAWKER.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership, or association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships, and associations, the term shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent, or employee.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the city hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be counted as REGULAR BUSINESS DAYS.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to- street, or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares,
products, merchandise, other personal property, or services of which he or she
may be carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog
or by other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later
time. The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the
scope of this provision if the actual purpose of the person’s activity is to
obtain or attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the
same as the term CANVASSER.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty store front
for the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling, or attempting to
sell, and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal
property and who does not remain or intend to remain in any one location for
more than 14 consecutive days.
§ 110.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of the requirements of this chapter, the terms
PEDDLER, SOLICITOR, and TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to any person
selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods, wares, products,
merchandise, or other personal property to a retailer of the items being sold
by the wholesaler. The terms also shall not apply to any person who makes
initial contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to
establish a regular customer delivery route for the delivery of perishable food
and dairy products such as baked goods and milk, nor shall they apply to any
person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to the customers
on his or her established regular delivery route.
   (B)   In addition, persons conducting the type of sales commonly known as
garage sales, rummage sales, or estate sales, as well as those persons
participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea market, shall be
exempt from the definitions of PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, and TRANSIENT MERCHANTS,
as shall be anyone conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer, or
any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale. Exemption from the
definitions for the scope of this chapter shall not excuse any person from
complying with any other applicable statutory provision or local ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict
door-to-door advocacy. Persons engaging in door-to-door advocacy shall not be
required to register as solicitors under §
110.07. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and
pamphleteering as vehicles for the dissemination of religious, political, and
other ideas.
§ 110.03 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as required by M.S. Ch.
329, as it may be amended from time to time, if the county issues a license for
the
activity.
   (B)   City license required. Pursuant to M.S. § 437.02, as it may be amended
from time to time, except as otherwise provided for by this chapter, no person
shall conduct business as either a peddler or a transient merchant without
first having obtained a license from the city. Solicitors need not be licensed,
but are still required to register pursuant to §
110.07.
   (C)   Application.
      (1)   Application for a city license to conduct business as a peddler or
transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days before the
applicant desires to begin conducting business operations in the city.
Application for a license shall be made on a form approved by the City Council
and available from the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer. All applications
shall be signed by the applicant.
      (2)   All applications shall include the following information:
         (a)   Applicant’s full legal name;
         (b)   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or
to which applicant officially answers;
         (c)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, distinguishing marks, and features, and the like);
         (d)   Full address of applicant’s permanent residence;
         (e)   Telephone number of applicant’s permanent residence;
         (f)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned,
managed, or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or
agent;
         (g)   Full address of applicant’s regular place of business (if any);
         (h)   Any and all business related telephone numbers of the applicant,
including cellular phones and facsimile (fax) machines;
         (i)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license;
         (j)   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily
license;
         (k)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct
business, and if the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of
days he or she will be conducting business in the city, with a maximum 14
consecutive days;
         (l)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up business;
         (m)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been
convicted within the last five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor, or
misdemeanor for violation of any state or federal statute or any local
ordinance, other than traffic offenses;
         (n)   A list of the three most recent locations where the applicant
has conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant;
         (o)   Proof of any required county license;
         (p)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner’s
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant;
         (q)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided;
         (r)   All additional information deemed necessary by the City Council;
         (s)   The applicant’s driver’s license number or other acceptable form
of identification; and
         (t)   The license plate number, registration information, and vehicle
identification number (VIN) for any vehicle to be used in conjunction with the
licensed business, and a physical description of the vehicle.
   (D)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established by Council, as they may be amended from time
to time.
   (E)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of
the license fee, the City Clerk/Treasurer, within two regular business days,
must determine if the application is complete. An application is determined to
be complete only if all required information is provided. If the City Clerk/
Treasurer determines that the application is incomplete, the City Clerk/
Treasurer must inform the applicant of the required necessary information that
is missing. If the application is complete, the City Clerk/Treasurer must order
any investigation, including background checks, necessary to verify the
information provided with the application. Within ten regular business days of
receiving a complete application the City Clerk/Treasurer must issue the
license unless there exist grounds for denying the license under §
110.04, in which case the Clerk/Treasurer must deny the license application. If
the City Clerk/Treasurer denies the license application, the applicant must be
notified in writing of the decision, the reason for denial, and of the
applicant’s right to appeal the denial by requesting, within 20 days of
receiving notice of rejection, a public hearing before the City Council. The
City Council shall hear the appeal within 20 days of the date of the request
for a public hearing. The decision of the City Council following the public
hearing can be appealed by petitioning the State Court of Appeals for a writ of
certiorari.
   (F)   Duration. An annual license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for one calendar year from the date of issue. All other licenses granted to
peddlers and transient merchants under this chapter shall be valid only during
the time period indicated on the license.
   (G)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated, or raised on any farm.
      (2)   No license shall be required of any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street, or other type of
place-to-place movement when the activity is for the purpose of exercising that
person’s state or federal Constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech,
press, religion and the like, except that this exemption may be lost if the
person’s exercise of Constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this chapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county license;
   (B)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application;
   (C)   (1)   The conviction of the applicant within the past five years from
the date of application for any violation of any federal or state statute or
regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person’s
ability to conduct the business for which the license is being sought in an
honest and legal manner.
      (2)   Those violations shall include, but not be limited to, burglary,
theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices, and any form of
actual or threatened physical harm against another person;
   (D)   The revocation within the past five years of any license issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor, or
transient merchant.
§ 110.05 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Subsequent knowledge by the city of fraud, misrepresentation, or
incorrect statements provided by the applicant on the application form;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements made during the
course of the licensed activity;
      (3)   Subsequent conviction of any offense for which granting of a
license could have been denied under §
110.04;
      (4)   Engaging in prohibited activity as provided under §
110.08; or
      (5)   Violation of any other provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person’s authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C)
above, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If no
request for a hearing is received by the City Clerk/Treasurer within ten
regular business days following the service of the notice, the city may proceed
with the suspension or revocation. For the purpose of mailed notices, service
shall be considered complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail.
If a public hearing is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall
be scheduled within 20 days from the date of the request. Within three regular
business days of the hearing, the City Council shall notify the licensee of its
decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person’s license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) above.
   (F)   Appeals. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 REGISTRATION.
   All solicitors, and any person exempt from the licensing requirements of
this chapter under §
110.03, shall be required to register with the city. Persons engaging in door-
to-door advocacy shall not be required to register. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR
ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and pamphleteering as vehicles for
the dissemination of religious, political, and other ideas. Registration shall
be made on the same form required for a license application, but no fee shall
be required. Immediately upon completion of the registration form, the City
Clerk/Treasurer shall issue to the registrant a certificate of registration as
proof of the registration. Certificates of registration shall be non-
transferable.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.08 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant shall conduct business in any
of the following manners:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any other
noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure;
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public right-of-way;
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety, and welfare of any individual or the general public;
   (D)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.; or
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration, and
identification, when requested; or using the license or registration of another
person;
   (F)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor,
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person; or
   (G)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conducting business in a manner a reasonable person would find
obscene, threatening, intimidating, or abusive.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.09 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   No peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant, unless invited to do so by the
property owner or tenant, shall enter the property of another for the purpose
of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant when the
property is marked with a sign or placard at least four inches long and four
inches wide with print of at least 48 point in size stating “No Peddlers,
Solicitors or Transient Merchants”, or “Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient
Merchants Prohibited”, or other comparable statement. No person other than the
property owner or tenant shall remove, deface, or otherwise tamper with any
sign or placard under this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: LIQUOR REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
111.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
111.03   Definitions
   
111.04   Nudity on the premises of licensed establishments prohibited
   
111.05   Consumption in public places
Licensing
   
111.20   Number of licenses which may be issued
   
111.21   Term and expiration of licenses
   
111.22   Kinds of liquor licenses
   
111.23   License fees; pro rata
   
111.24   Council discretion to grant or deny a license
   
111.25   Application for license
   
111.26   Description of premises
   
111.27   Applications for renewal
   
111.28   Transfer of license
   
111.29   Investigation
   
111.30   Hearing and issuance
   
111.31   Restrictions on issuance
   
111.32   Conditions of license
   
111.33   Hours and days of sale
   
111.34   Minors on premises
   
111.35   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
111.36   Suspension and revocation
Municipal Liquor Stores
   
111.50   Application of this subchapter
   
111.51   Existing municipal stores continued
   
111.52   Location
   
111.53   Operation
   
111.54   Proof of financial responsibility
   
111.55   Issuance of other licenses
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as they may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale, and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2 percent malt liquor are hereby adopted by
reference and are made a part of this Chapter as if set out in full. It is the
intention of the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Ch. 340A are
hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at
the time this Chapter is adopted.
§ 111.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended
from time to time.
§ 111.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter:
   LIQUOR. As used in this chapter, without modification by the words
“intoxicating” or “3.2 percent malt,” includes both intoxicating liquor and 3.2
percent malt liquor.
   RESTAURANT. An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises, where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a
customer orders food from printed menus and where the main food course is
served and consumed while seated at a single location. To be a “restaurant” as
defined by this section, an establishment shall have a license from the state
as required by M.S. § 157.16, as it may be amended from time to time, and meet
the definition of either a “small establishment,” “medium establishment” or
“large establishment” as defined in M.S. § 157.16, subd. 3(d), as it may be
amended from time to time. An establishment which serves prepackaged food that
receives heat treatment and is served in the package or frozen pizza that is
heated and served, shall not be considered to be a restaurant for purposes of
this chapter unless it meets the definitions of “small establishment”, “medium
establishment” or “large establishment.”
§ 111.04 NUDITY ON THE PREMISES OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this chapter. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators, and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the
public in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and
combination of alcohol, nudity, and sex. The Council especially intends to
prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to
lead to the possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution,
sexual assault, and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the
prohibition of nudity on the premises of any establishment licensed under this
chapter, as set forth in this section, reflects the prevailing community
standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a non- transparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a
non-transparent material.
   (C)   A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by
law, and is justification for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine, or
3.2 percent malt liquor license or the imposition of a civil penalty.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall consume intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor
in a public park, on any public street, sidewalk, parking lot or alley, or in
any public place other than on the premises of an establishment licensed under
this chapter, in a municipal liquor dispensary if one exists in the city, or
where the consumption and display of liquor is lawfully permitted.
   (B)   Exception. The prohibitions of this section shall not apply to the
following:
      (1)   Friederichs Park, Eden Valley MN.
(Ord. 2019-07, passed 9-4-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
LICENSING
§ 111.20 NUMBER OF LICENSES WHICH MAY BE ISSUED.
   State law establishes the number of liquor licenses that a city may issue.
However, the number of licenses which may be granted under this chapter is
limited to the number of licenses which were issued as of the effective date of
this chapter, even if a larger number of licenses are authorized by law or
election. The Council in its sound discretion may provide by ordinance that a
larger number of licenses may be issued up to the number of licenses authorized
by M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time. If a larger number of
licenses in a particular category has been authorized by a referendum held
under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.413, subd. 3, as it may be amended from
time to time, but not all of them have been issued, the larger number of
licenses is no longer in effect until the Council by ordinance determines that
any or all of the licenses may be issued. The Council is not required to issue
the full number of licenses that it has available.
§ 111.21 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on December 31 of each year unless
another date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same
date. Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. Consumption and
display permits issued by the Commissioner of Public Safety, and the
accompanying city consent to the permit, shall expire on March 31 of each year.
§ 111.22 KINDS OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The Council of a city that does not have a municipal liquor store is
authorized to issue the following licenses and permits, up to the number
specified in §
111.20. The Council of a city which has a municipal liquor store is authorized
to issue only those licenses specified in §
111.55.
   (A)   3.2 percent malt liquor on-sale licenses, which may be issued only to
golf courses, restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers, and establishments
used exclusively for the sale of 3.2 percent malt liquor with the incidental
sale of tobacco and soft drinks.
   (B)   3.2 percent malt liquor off-sale license.
   (C)   Temporary 3.2 percent malt liquor licenses which may be issued only to
a club, charitable, religious, or nonprofit organization.
   (D)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued only to
exclusive liquor stores or drug stores that have an off-sale license which was
first issued on or before May 1, 1994. The fee for an off- sale intoxicating
liquor license established by the Council under §
111.23 shall not exceed $240 or a greater amount which may be permitted by M.S.
§ 340A.408, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued to the
following establishments as defined by M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and this chapter: hotels, restaurants, bowling centers,
theaters, clubs or congressionally chartered veterans organizations, and
exclusive liquor stores. Club licenses may be issued only with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety. The fee for club licenses established by the
Council under §
111.23 shall not exceed the amounts provided for in M.S. § 340A.408, subd. 2
(b), as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may in its sound
discretion authorize a retail on-sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor
off the licensed premises at a community festival held within the city under
the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 4(b), as it may be amended from time
to time. The Council may in its sound discretion authorize a retail on-sale
licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at any
convention, banquet, conference, meeting, or social affair conducted on the
premises of a sports, convention, or cultural facility owned by the city, under
the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 4(a), as it may be amended from time
to time; however, the licensee is prohibited from dispensing intoxicating
liquor to any person attending or participating in an amateur athletic event
being held on the premises.
   (F)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, only after authorization
to do so by voter approval at a general or special election as provided by M.S.
§ 340A.504, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time. Sunday on-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only to a restaurant as defined in §
111.03, club, bowling center, or hotel which has a seating capacity of at least
30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license, and which
serves liquor only in conjunction with the service of food. The maximum fee for
this license, which shall be established by the Council under the provisions of
§
111.23, shall not exceed $200, or the maximum amount provided by M.S. §
340A.504, subd. 3(b), as it may be amended from time to time.
   (G)   Combination on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses if the city
has a population less than 10,000.
   (H)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety, which may be issued only in connection with
a social event sponsored by a club, charitable, religious, or other nonprofit
corporation that has existed for at least three years. No license shall be for
longer than four consecutive days, and the city shall issue no more than 12
days worth of temporary licenses to any one organization in one calendar year.
   (I)   On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Safety to: theaters, restaurants that have facilities for seating at least 25
guests at one time and meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 5, as it may
be amended from time to time, and which meet the definition of restaurant in §
111.03; and to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet the criteria in
M.S. § 340A.4011, subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time and to
theaters that meet the criteria in M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 1(b). The fee for an
on-sale wine license established by the Council under the provisions of §
111.23 shall not exceed one-half of the license fee charged for an on-sale
intoxicating liquor license. The holder of an on-sale wine license who also
holds an on-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor license is authorized to sell malt
liquor with a content over 3.2 percent (strong beer) without an additional
license.
   (J)   One day consumption and display permits with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety to a nonprofit organization in conjunction with a
social activity in the city sponsored by the organization.
   (K)   Approval of the issuance of a consumption and display permit by the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The maximum amount of the additional fee which
may be imposed by the Council on a person who has been issued a consumption and
display permit under the provisions of §
111.23 shall not exceed $300, or the maximum amount permitted by M.S. §
340A.414, subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time. Consumption and
display permits shall expire on March 31 of each year.
   (L)   Culinary class limited on-sale licenses may be issued to a business
establishment not otherwise eligible for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license
that, as part of its business, conducts culinary or cooking classes for which
payment is made by each participant or advance reservation required. The
license authorizes the licensee to furnish to each participant in each class,
at no additional cost to the participant, up to a maximum of six ounces of wine
or 12 ounces of intoxicating malt liquor, during and as part of the class, for
consumption on the licensed premises only.
   (M)   Temporary off-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued for the off-sale of wine at an
auction. A license issued under this subdivision authorizes the sale of only
vintage wine of a brand and vintage that is not commonly being offered for sale
by any wholesaler in Minnesota. The license may authorize the off-sale of wine
for not more than three consecutive days provided not more than 600 cases of
wine are sold at any auction. The licenses are subject to the terms, including
license fee, imposed by §
111.23.
   (N)   Brew pub on-sale intoxicating liquor or on-sale 3.2% malt liquor
licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued
to brewers who operate a restaurant in their place of manufacture and who meet
the criteria established at M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6(d) and 7(b), as it may be
amended from time to time. Sales under this license at on-sale may not exceed
3,500 barrels per year. If a brew pub licensed under this section possesses a
license for off-sale under division (O) below, the brew pub’s total combined
retail sales at on-sale or off-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels per year,
provided that off-sales may not total more than 500 barrels.
   (O)   Brewer off-sale intoxicating liquor license, with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued to a brewer that is a licensee
under division (N) above or that produces fewer than 3,500 barrels of malt
liquor in a year and otherwise meets the criteria established as M.S. §
340A.301, subd. 6(d) and 7(b), as it may be amended from time to time. Off-sale
of malt liquor shall be limited to the legal hours for off-sale at exclusive
liquor stores in the city. Malt liquor sold off-sale must be removed from the
premises before the applicable off-sale closing time at exclusive liquor
stores. All malt liquor sold under this license shall be packaged in the manner
required by M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 7 as it may be amended from time to time.
Sales under this license may not exceed 500 barrels per year. If a brewer
licensed under this section possesses a license under division (N) above, the
brewer’s total retail sales at on-sale or off-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels
per year, provided that off-sales may not total more than 500 barrels.
   (P)   Brewer temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued,
with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety, to brewers who
manufacture fewer than 3,500 barrels of malt liquor in a year for the on-sale
of intoxicating liquor in connection with a social event within the
municipality sponsored by the brewer.
   (Q)   Brewer taproom license, may be issued to the holder of a brewer’s
license under M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6(c), (I) or (j) as it may amended from
time to time. A brewer’s taproom license authorizes on-sale of malt liquor
produced by the brewer for consumption on the premises of or adjacent to one
brewery location owned by the brewer. A brewer may have only one taproom
license and may not have an ownership interest in a brewer licensed under M.S.
§ 340A.301, subd. 6(d) as it may be amended from time to time. A brewer taproom
license may not be issued to a brewer that brews more than 250,000 barrels of
malt liquor annually or a winery that produces more than 250,000 gallons of
wine annually. Within ten days of issuing a brewer taproom license the City
Clerk will inform the Commissioner of Public Safety of the licensee’s name,
address, trade name and the effective date and expiration date of the license.
The City Clerk will inform the Commissioner of Public Safety of a license
transfer, cancellation, suspension, or revocation during the license period.
   (R)   A cocktail room license may be issued to the holder of a
microdistillery license under M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6(c). A microdistillery
cocktail room license authorizes on-sale of distilled liquor produced by the
distiller for consumption on the premises of or adjacent to one distillery
location owned by the distiller. The holder of a microdistillery cocktail room
license may also hold a license to operate a restaurant at the distillery. No
more than one cocktail room license may be issued to any distiller and a
microdistillery cocktail room license may not be issued to any person having an
ownership interest in a distillery licensed under M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6(a).
No single entity may hold both a microdistillery cocktail room and taproom
license and a microdistillery cocktail room and taproom license may not be co-
located. Within ten days of the issuance of a microdistillery cocktail room
license, the city shall inform the commissioner of public safety of the
licensee’s name and address and trade name, and the effective date and
expiration date of the license. The city shall also inform the commissioner of
public safety of a microdistillery cocktail room license transfer,
cancellation, suspension, or revocation during the license period.
§ 111.23 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for a
liquor license.
   (B)   The Council may establish fee for any of the liquor licenses it is
authorized to issue. The license fee may not exceed the cost of issuing the
license and other costs directly related to the enforcement of the liquor laws
and this chapter. No liquor license fee shall be increased without providing
mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed increase to all affected licensees
at least 30 days before the hearing.
   (C)   The fee for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a quarterly basis.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (E)   A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only
if authorized by M.S. § 340A.408, subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (F)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licensees may request a reduction in
their annual license fee by the amount specified in M.S. § 340A.408, as it may
be amended from time to time, if at the time of initial application or renewal
they:
      (1)   Agree to have a private vendor approved by the city train all
employees within 60 days of hire and annually thereafter in laws pertaining to
the sale of alcohol, the rules for identification checks, and the
responsibilities of establishments serving intoxicating liquors;
      (2)   Post a policy requiring identification checks for all persons
appearing to be 30 years old or less;
      (3)   Establish a written cash award and incentive program to award
employees who catch underage drinkers and a written penalty program to punish
employees in the event of a failed compliance check;
      (4)   Failure to abide by the provisions of this division may result in
suspension of the license until the conditions of the fee reduction are met and
may result in suspension and/or revocation of the license pursuant to §
111.36 of this chapter.
§ 111.24 COUNCIL DISCRETION TO GRANT OR DENY A LICENSE.
   The Council in its sound discretion may either grant or deny the application
for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license. No applicant has
a right to a license under this chapter.
§ 111.25 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall
be on a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name of
the applicant, the applicant’s age, representations as to the applicant’s
character, with references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in that
business at that place, and other information as the Council may require from
time to time. An application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall
be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall also
contain the information required in this section. The form shall be verified
and filed with the city. No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of any license under
this chapter, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility
as defined in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, with
regard to liability under M.S. § 340A.801, as it may be amended from time to
time. This proof will be filed with the city and the Commissioner of Public
Safety. Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of financial
responsibility under this section shall conform to M.S. § 340A.409, as it may
be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which is required to be
licensed by this chapter without having on file with the city at all times
effective proof of financial responsibility is a cause for revocation of the
license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.26 DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed. The description may
not include any parking lot or sidewalk.
§ 111.27 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   At least 90 days before a license issued under this chapter is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the
Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
§ 111.28 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred without the approval
of the Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed to be a
transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior Council approval
is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to transfer a license
shall be treated the same as an application for a new license, and all of the
provisions of this code applying to applications for a license shall apply.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.29 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background and financial investigation. On an initial
application for a license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in
the sound discretion of the Council that it is in the public interest to do so,
on an application for renewal of a license, the city shall conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant or it may
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The
applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee of $500 which
shall be in addition to any license fee. If the cost of the preliminary
investigation is less than $500, the unused balance shall be returned to the
applicant. The results of the preliminary investigation shall be sent to the
Commissioner of Public Safety if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license or an on-sale wine license.
   (B)   Comprehensive background and financial investigation. If the results
of a preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the Council,
a comprehensive background and financial investigation, the Council may either
conduct the investigation itself or contract with the Commissioner of Public
Safety for the investigation. The investigation fee for this comprehensive
background and financial investigation to be paid by the applicant shall be
$500, less any amount paid for the initial investigation if the investigation
is to be conducted within the state, and $10,000, less any amount paid for the
initial investigation, if the investigation is required outside the state. The
unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation
and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall not be refundable
in the event the application is denied. The results of the comprehensive
investigation shall be sent to the Commissioner of Public Safety if the
application is for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license or an on-sale wine
license.
§ 111.30 HEARING AND ISSUANCE.
   The Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application and not
investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive background and financial
investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the
Council shall in its sound discretion grant or deny the application. No license
shall become effective until the proof of financial security has been approved
by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
§ 111.31 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
   (B)   Not more than one license shall be directly or indirectly issued
within the city to any one person.
   (C)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges, or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (D)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
   (E)   No license shall be granted within 500 feet of any school or church.
The distance is to be measured from the closest side of the school or church to
the closest side of the structure on the premises within which liquor is to be
sold.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.32 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any one of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   Within 90 days after employment, every person selling or serving
liquor in an establishment which has an “on-sale” license shall receive
training regarding the selling or serving of liquor to customers. The training
shall be provided by an organization approved by the Council. Proof of training
shall be provided by the licensee.
   (B)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and the law equally
with the employee.
   (C)   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, city
employee or any other person designated by the Council to conduct compliance
checks and to otherwise enter, inspect, and search the premises of the licensee
during business hours and after business hours during the time when customers
remain on the premises without a warrant.
   (D)   No on-sale establishment shall display liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law and
of this chapter is a continuing condition of any license.
   (F)   Failure by an off-sale intoxicating liquor licensee who has received a
fee reduction pursuant to §
111.23(F) of this chapter to abide with the provisions of §
111.23(F).
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.33 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. §
340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time, except that the City Council
may, by resolution or ordinance, provide for more restrictive hours than state
law allows.
   (B)   No person shall consume nor shall any on-sale licensee permit any
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor in an on-sale
licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally
occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle, or other container
containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor to remain upon any
table, bar, stool, or other place where customers are served, more than 30
minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.34 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2 percent malt liquor
are sold at retail on sale, except that persons under the age of 18 may be
employed as musicians or to perform the duties of a bus person or dishwashing
services in places defined as a restaurant, hotel, motel or other multi-purpose
building serving food in rooms in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2 percent
malt liquor are sold at retail on sale.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years may enter a licensed establishment
except to work, consume meals on premises that qualify as a restaurant, or
attend social functions that are held in a portion of the premises where liquor
is not sold.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.35 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless it has a license to sell on-sale, or a permit from the
Commissioner of Public Safety under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.414, as it
may be amended from time to time, which has been approved by the Council, and
no person shall consume liquor in any such place.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.36 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation, or provision of this chapter relating
to liquor. Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial responsibility, no
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act,
M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may
act as the hearing body under that act, or it may contract with the Office of
Hearing Examiners for a hearing officer.
   (B)   The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the Council for violations of the provisions of this
chapter or M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time or any rules
promulgated under that chapter as they may be amended from time to time:
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2 percent malt liquor, or
violation of §
111.04, the license shall be revoked.
      (2)   The license shall be suspended by the Council after a finding under
division (A) that the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable
statute, rule, or provision of this chapter for at least the minimum periods as
follows:
         (a)   For the first violation within any three-year period, at least
one day suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
         (b)   For a second violation within any three-year period, at least
three consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (c)   For the third violation within any three-year period, at least
seven consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (d)   For a fourth violation within any three-year period, the license
shall be revoked.
      (3)   The Council shall select the day or days during which the license
will be suspended.
   (C)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has
received notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation
of a license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the Clerk, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within ten days.
Any suspension under this division (C) shall continue until the Council
determines that the financial responsibility requirements of state law and this
chapter have again been met.
Penalty, see §
10.99
MUNICIPAL LIQUOR STORES
§ 111.50 APPLICATION OF THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter, consisting of §§
111.50 through
111.55, applies only to a city that has in existence on the effective date of
this chapter a municipal liquor store.
§ 111.51 EXISTING MUNICIPAL STORES CONTINUED.
   If the city has in existence on the effective date of this chapter a
municipal liquor store for the sale of intoxicating liquor, the store is
continued. Except as provided in §
111.55, no intoxicating liquor may be sold at retail elsewhere in the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.52 LOCATION.
   The municipal liquor store shall be located at a suitable place in the city
as the Council determines by motion. However, no premises upon which taxes,
assessments, or other public charges are delinquent shall be leased for
municipal liquor store purposes. The Council shall have the right to establish
additional off-sale and on-sale stores at other locations as it may, from time
to time, by motion, determine.
§ 111.53 OPERATION.
   (A)   Manager. The municipal liquor store shall be in the immediate charge
of a Liquor Store Manager selected by the Council and paid compensation as is
fixed by the Council. The Manager shall not be a person who would be prohibited
by law or any provision of this chapter from being eligible for an intoxicating
liquor license. The Manager shall furnish a surety bond to the city,
conditioned upon the faithful discharge of the duties of the office, in a sum
as specified by the Council. The bond premium may be paid by the city or the
Manager, in the discretion of the Council. The Manager shall operate the
municipal liquor store under the Council’s direction and shall perform those
duties in connection with the store as may be established by the Council. The
Manager shall be responsible to the Council for the conduct of the store in
full compliance with this chapter and with the laws relating to the sale of
intoxicating liquor and 3.2 percent malt liquor.
   (B)   Other employees. The Council may also appoint additional employees as
may be required and shall fix their compensation. All employees, including the
Manager, shall hold their positions at the pleasure of the Council. No person
under the age of 18 shall be employed in the store. The Council may require the
employees to furnish surety bonds conditioned for the faithful discharge of
their duties in a sum as specified by the Council. The premium on the bond may
be paid by the city or the employees, as the Council determines.
   (C)   Municipal liquor store fund. All of the revenues received from the
operation of a municipal liquor store shall be deposited in a municipal liquor
store fund from which all ordinary operating expenses, including compensation
of the Manager and employees, shall be paid. Surpluses accumulating in the fund
may be transferred to the general fund of the city or to any other appropriate
fund of the city by resolution of the Council, and may be expended for any
municipal purpose. The handling of municipal liquor store receipts and
disbursements shall comply with the procedure prescribed by law and charter for
the receipts and disbursements of city funds generally.
   (D)   Financial statement. The Council shall provide within 90 days
following the end of the calendar year for publication a balance sheet using
generally accepted accounting procedures and a statement of operations of the
municipal liquor store for that year. The balance sheet and statement shall be
published in accordance with the provisions of M.S. § 471.6985, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (E)   Hours of operation. The hours during which the sale of intoxicating
liquor may be sold shall be as provided in §
111.33. No person, other than the Manager or a store employee, may remain in
the municipal liquor store longer than one-half hour after the time when the
sale of intoxicating liquor must cease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.54 PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The city shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility required by
licensees of retail intoxicating liquor establishments under the provisions of
M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 111.55 ISSUANCE OF OTHER LICENSES.
   (A)   On-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquor. The Council may
issue in its sound discretion on-sale licenses to a club under M.S. § 340A.404,
Subd. 1(4), as it may be amended from time to time. If the voters have
authorized their issuance at a special election called for that purpose, the
Council may issue on its sound discretion on-sale liquor licenses to hotels and
restaurants. The number of on-sale licenses issued under this section is
governed by M.S. § 340A.413, as it may be amended from time to time, as limited
by the provisions of this chapter. The issuance of these licenses is governed
by the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Off-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquor. State law does
not authorize the issuance of off-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating
liquor by cities which operate a municipal liquor dispensary.
   (C)   On- and off-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor licenses. The Council may
issue 3.2 percent malt liquor licenses in its sound discretion as provided in
this chapter.
   (D)   Brewer Taproom License. The Council may issue brewer taproom licenses
in its sound discretion as provided in this chapter.
   (E)   Microdistillery Cocktail Room License. The Council may issue
microdistillery cocktail room licenses in its sound discretion as provided in
this chapter.
CHAPTER 112: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Findings
   
112.03   Definitions
   
112.04   Exceptions
   
112.05   License required
   
112.06   Person ineligible
   
112.07   Places ineligible
   
112.08   License application
   
112.09   Fees
   
112.10   Granting of licenses
   
112.11   Conditions of license
   
112.12   Restrictions and regulations
   
112.13   Suspensions and revocation of license
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prescribe licensing requirements for
sexually oriented businesses to protect the public health, safety, and welfare
and to prevent criminal activity and the spread of sexually-transmitted
diseases. This chapter is intended to supercede the provisions of M.S. §
617.242, as it may be amended from time to time, and render M.S. § 617.242
inapplicable as authorized by the statute.
§ 112.02 FINDINGS.
   The City Council makes the following findings regarding the effect sexually
oriented businesses have on the character of the city's neighborhoods. In
making these findings, the City Council accepts the recommendations and
conclusions of the Report of the Attorney General’s Working Group on the
Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses dated June 6, 1989.
   (A)   Sexually oriented businesses can contribute to an increase in criminal
activity in the area in which such businesses are located, increasing the
demands on city crime-prevention programs and law enforcement services.
   (B)   Sexually oriented businesses can be used as fronts for prostitution
and other criminal activity. The experience of other cities indicates that
proper management and operation of such businesses can minimize this risk.
   (C)   Sexually oriented businesses can increase the risk of exposure to
communicable diseases, including Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS),
for which there is currently no cure. Experiences of other cities indicate that
such businesses can facilitate the spread of communicable diseases by virtue of
the design and use of the premises, endangering not only the patrons of such
establishments but also the general public.
   (D)   Sexually oriented businesses can cause or contribute to public health
problems by the presence of live adult entertainment in conjunction with food
and/or drink on the same premises.
   (E)   A licensing and regulatory scheme as prescribed in this chapter can
facilitate the enforcement of the city’s “anti-blight” regulations, as set
forth in Chapter 153 of this code, and can aid in monitoring sexually oriented
businesses for adverse secondary effects on the community.
   (F)   The risk of criminal activity and/or public health problems can be
minimized through a licensing and regulatory scheme as prescribed in this
chapter.
§ 112.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and terms have the following meanings when used in this
chapter.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Shall include the following:
      (1)   A business that meets any of the following criteria, measured on a
daily, weekly, monthly, or yearly basis:
         (a)   Has more than 25% of its inventory, stock-in-trade, or publicly
displayed merchandise in sexually oriented materials;
         (b)   Devotes more than 25% of its floor area (not including
storerooms, stock areas, bathrooms, basements, or any portion of the business
not open to the public) to sexually oriented materials; or
         (c)   Derives more than 25% of its gross revenues from sexually
oriented materials; or
      (2)   A business that engages for any length of time in a sexually
oriented use as defined in this section or any other use that has an emphasis
on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATERIALS. Visual, printed, or aural materials, and other
objects or devices, that:
      (1)   Contain, depict, simulate or describe specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas; or
      (2)   Are marketed for use in conjunction with, or are primarily used
only with or during specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Are designed for sexual stimulation.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE. Any of the following activities and businesses, even
if the activity exists for only a short-time:
      (1)   ADULT BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business that
provides the service of applying paint, ink, or other substance, whether
transparent or non-transparent, to the body of a patron when the person is
nude.
      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment or business used for the barter,
rental, or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures, slides,
records, audiotape, videotape, movies, or motion picture film if it meets the
criteria established in the definition of “sexually oriented business,” as
defined in this section.
      (3)   ADULT CABARET. A business or establishment that provides dancing or
other live entertainment distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on:
         (a)   The depiction of nudity, specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas; or
         (b)   The presentation, display, or depiction of matter that seeks to
evoke, arouse, or excite sexual or erotic feelings or desire.
      (4)   ADULT COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A business or establishment that
provides the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or
discussion distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (5)   ADULT CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A business or establishment that
provides the services of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or
discussion distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (6)   ADULT HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club that is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (7)   ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL. A hotel or motel that presents material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (8)   ADULT MASSAGE PARLOR/HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health club
that provides massage services distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (9)   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A business or establishment with
a capacity of less than 50 persons that, as a prevailing practice, presents on-
premises viewing of movies, motion pictures, or other material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (10)   ADULT MODELING STUDIO. A business or establishment that provides
live models who, with the intent of providing sexual stimulation or sexual
gratification, engage in specified sexual activities or display specified
anatomical areas while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn,
sculptured, photographed, or otherwise depicted.
      (11)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited where coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are used to show images
to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (12)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A motion picture theater with a
capacity of 50 or more persons that, as a prevailing practice, presents
material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons.
      (13)   ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS. An establishment or business that has a
variety of items for sale if it meets the criteria established in division (1)
of the definition of “sexually oriented business”defined in this section.
      (14)   ADULT SAUNA. A sauna that excludes minors by reason of age, and
that provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of
bathing, relaxation, or reducing, if the service provided by the sauna is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      (15)   ADULT STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or portion of a
building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation, or reducing, if the building or
portion of a building restricts minors by reason of age and if the service
provided by the steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Shall include the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
area, buttocks, anus, or female breast below a point immediately above the top
of the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a state of sexual arousal, whether or not
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Shall include the following:
      (1)   Actual or simulated: sexual intercourse; oral copulation; anal
intercourse; oral-anal copulation; bestiality; direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals; flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship; the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship; anilingus; coprophagy; coprophilia; cunnilingus; fellatio;
necrophilia; pedophilia; piquerism or zooerastia;
      (2)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal or tumescence;
      (3)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus
or masturbation;
      (4)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks, or female breasts;
      (5)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude, who
are clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes and engaged in the
flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other physical restraint of any
person;
      (6)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; or
      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation or vaginal or anal
irrigation.
§ 112.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not regulate the following:
   (A)   Material with significant literary content or social commentary;
   (B)   A business where sexually oriented materials are sold, bartered,
distributed, leased, furnished, or otherwise provided for off-site use or
entertainment, if the sexually oriented material on each item is blocked from
view by an opaque cover as required under M.S. § 617.293, as it may be amended
from time to time, and each item is in an area accessible only by an employee
of the business;
   (C)   A person or organization exempted under M.S. § 617.295, as it may be
amended from time to time;
   (D)   Activity regulated under M.S. § 617.202, as it may be amended from
time to time;
   (E)   Displaying works of art showing specified anatomical areas, so long as
no sexually oriented materials are for sale, and the business does not have a
liquor license; and
   (F)   Movies rated G, PG, PG-13, NC-17 or R.
§ 112.05 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person may own or operate a sexually oriented business within the city
unless the person is currently licensed under this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.06 PERSONS INELIGIBLE.
   No license may be issued to a person who:
   (A)   Is not a citizen of the United States or a resident alien;
   (B)   Is a minor at the time the application is filed;
   (C)   Has been convicted of a crime directly related to the licensed
occupation and has not shown competent evidence of sufficient rehabilitation
and present fitness to perform the duties of the owner, operator or manager of
a sexually oriented business under M.S. § 364.03, subd. 3, as it may be amended
from time to time, or a person not of good moral character and repute;
   (D)   Holds a liquor license.
   (E)   In the judgment of the licensing authority, is not the real party in
interest or beneficial owner of the business operated under the license;
   (F)   Has had a license for a sexually oriented business or similar business
revoked anywhere within five years of the license application; or
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.07 PLACES INELIGIBLE.
   No license may be issued for:
   (A)   A place or a business ineligible for a license under city ordinance or
state law;
   (B)   Operation in a zoning district where the business is not allowed;
   (C)   A place or business that is currently licensed as a tattoo
establishment, pawnshop, massage business or establishment that sells alcoholic
beverages; or
   (D)   Operation on a premises on which taxes, assessments or other financial
claims of the city or other government agency are delinquent and unpaid, unless
the non-payment is not under the control of the applicant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.08 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application for a sexually oriented business license under this
chapter must be made on a form supplied by the city and must provide the
following information:
      (1)   The business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate;
      (2)   The location of the business premises;
      (3)   The legal description of the premises to be licensed, including a
map of the area for which the license is sought, showing dimensions, locations
of buildings, street access and parking facilities;
      (4)   Whether all real estate and personal property taxes that are due
and payable for the premises to be licensed have been paid, and if not paid,
the years and amounts that are unpaid;
      (5)   Whether the applicant is the owner and operator of the business and
if not, who is;
      (6)   Whether the applicant has ever used or been known by a name other
than his or her true name, and if so, what was the name or names, and
information concerning dates and places where used;
      (7)   Whether the applicant is married or single. If married, the true
name, place and date of birth and street address of applicant's spouse;
      (8)   Street address at which the applicant and spouse have lived during
the preceding ten years;
      (9)   Kind, name and location of every business or occupation the
applicant and spouse have been engaged in during the preceding ten years;
      (10)   Names and addresses of the applicant's and spouse's employers and
partners, if any, for the preceding ten years;
      (11)   Whether the applicant or spouse has ever been convicted of a
violation of a state law or local ordinance, other than a non-alcohol related
traffic offense. If so, the applicant must furnish information as to the time,
place and offense for which convictions were had;
      (12)   Whether the applicant or spouse has ever been engaged as an
employee or in operating a sexually oriented business, massage business, or
other business of a similar nature. If so, the applicant must furnish
information as to the time, place and length of time;
      (13)   Whether the applicant has ever been in military service. If so,
the applicant must, upon request, exhibit all discharges;
      (14)   If the applicant is a partnership, the name and address of all
partners and all information concerning each partner as is required of a single
applicant as above. A managing partner or partners must be designated. The
interest of each partner or partners in the business must be submitted with the
application and, if the partnership is required to file a certificate as to
trade name under the provisions of M.S. Ch. 333, as it may be amended from time
to time, a copy of the certificate must be attached to the application;
      (15)   If the applicant is a corporation or other organization, the
applicant must submit the following:
         (a)   Name, and if incorporated, the state of incorporation;
         (b)   Names and addresses of all officers;
         (c)   The name of the manager or proprietor or other agent in charge
of, or to be in charge of the premises to be licensed, giving all information
about said person as is required in the case of a single applicant; and
         (d)   A list of all persons who, single or together with their spouse,
own or control an interest in said corporation or association in excess of 5%
or who are officers of said corporation or association, together with their
addresses and all information as is required for a single applicant.
      (16)   The amount of the investment that the applicant has in the
business, land, building, premises, fixtures, furniture or stock-in-trade, and
proof of the source of the money;
      (17)   A list of responsible persons, including the names of owners,
managers and assistant managers, who may be notified or contacted by state or
city employees in case of emergency. These persons must be residents of the
state;
      (18)   Whether the applicant holds a current license for a sexually
oriented business or similar business from another governmental unit;
      (19)   Whether the applicant has ever been denied a license for a
sexually oriented business or similar business from another governmental unit;
and
      (20)   Other information that the city deems appropriate.
   (B)   No person may make a false statement or material omission in a license
application or investigation. A false statement or material omission is grounds
for denial, suspension or revocation of a license.
   (C)   Each licensee has the continuing duty to properly notify the Director
of Community Development of a change in the information or facts required to be
furnished on the application for a license. This duty continues throughout the
period of the license. Failure to comply with this section will constitute
cause for revocation or suspension of the license.
   (D)   The application for the renewal of an existing license must be made at
least 90 days prior to the date of the expiration of the license and must be
made on the form which the city provides.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.09 FEES.
   (A)   An applicant for a license must pay to the city the investigation fee.
This fee will be for the purpose of conducting a preliminary background and
financial investigation of the applicant. If the city believes that the public
interest so warrants, it may require a similar investigation at the time of
renewal of a license. If an investigation is ordered at the time of license
renewal, the applicant must pay the fee specified above, except that the fee
will be the smaller of the stated dollar amount or the actual cost of the
investigation. There will be no refund of the investigation fee after the
investigation has begun.
   (B)   The annual fees for a license are set by the City Council from time to
time.
   (C)   Each license expires on December 31 of the year in which it is issued.
Fees for licenses issued during the license year will be prorated according to
the number of months remaining in the year. For this purpose an unexpired
fraction of a month will be counted as a whole month having elapsed.
   (D)   No refund of a fee will be made except as authorized by ordinance.
§ 112.10 GRANTING OF LICENSES.
   (A)   No license may be issued until the Police Department, or the county
Sheriff, if the city has no Police Department, has conducted an investigation
of the representations set forth in the application, the applicant’s moral
character, and the applicant’s financial status. All applicants must cooperate
this investigation.
   (B)   No license, except for a renewed license, may be issued for a sexually
oriented business until the Council has held a public hearing. Notice of the
hearing must be made in the same manner for a zoning ordinance amendment
affecting district boundaries. The Council must grant the license unless the
applicant or the location does not meet the requirements of the city code, the
application was incomplete, or the application contained false information or a
material omission. If the application is denied, the city must notify the
applicant with the reason(s) stated for denial. Notification must be sent
certified, United States mail, return receipt requested, to the address
provided on the license application. If the Council fails to act on the
application within 45 days after receipt of a complete application, the
application will be deemed approved. An applicant wishing to appeal the action
of the City Council may seek a writ of certiorari before the Minnesota Court of
Appeals.
   (C)   (1)   The City Council may issue a license before an investigation,
notice and public hearing for an applicant who:
         (a)   Had a license within the previous five years for the
establishment that is specified in the application and that is continuing to
operate under a license;
         (b)   Wishes to resume operation of the business without sufficient
time, through no fault of his or her own, to meet the normal procedural
requirements;
         (c)   Had no criminal license convictions, or license suspensions or
revocations during the prior licensed period; and
         (d)   Otherwise qualifies and meets the requirements for a license.
      (2)   In this situation, the City Council may immediately issue an
interim license to the applicant for a period of no longer than 90 days. The
applicant must then proceed through the specified requirements for an
investigation, notice, and public hearing. At the public hearing the Council
will decide whether the license should continue in effect or be revoked. The
applicant has no greater right to continuation of the license than he or she
would have had to issuance of a new license following the normal procedure
without the interim license.
   (D)   A license will be issued only to the applicant and for the premises
described in the application. No license may be transferred to another person
or place without application in the same manner as an application for a new
license. Transfer of 25% or more of the stock of a corporation or of a
controlling interest of it, whichever is less, will be deemed a transfer of the
license. If the licensee is a corporation that is wholly owned by another
corporation, the same provisions about the transfer of a stock or a controlling
interest will apply to that parent corporation, any second parent corporation
that wholly owns the parent corporation, and all other similarly situated
parent corporations up through the chain of ownership. Transfer of this amount
of stock without prior Council approval is a ground for revocation or
suspension of the license. In addition, each day the licensee operates under
the license after a transfer has taken place without obtaining Council approval
will be a separate violation of this chapter.
   (E)   In the case of the death of a licensee, the personal representative of
a licensee may continue operation of the business for not more than 90 days
after the licensee’s death.
§ 112.11 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license is subject to the conditions in this section, all other
provisions of this chapter, and of other applicable regulations, ordinances or
state laws.
   (B)   A licensee is responsible for the conduct of his or her place of
business and the conditions of order in it. The act of an employee of the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
is liable for all penalties provided by this chapter equally with the employee,
except criminal penalties.
   (C)   The license must be posted in a conspicuous place in the premises for
which it is used.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.12 RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   A sexually oriented business is subject to the following restrictions and
regulations:
   (A)   No owner, manager or employee may allow sexually oriented materials or
entertainment to be visible or perceivable in any manner, including aurally, at
any time from outside of the business.
   (B)   No owner, manager or employee may allow a person under the age of 18
to enter the business.
   (C)   No owner, manager or employee may allow a person under the age of 18
to have access to sexually oriented materials, whether by sight, purchase,
touch or other means.
   (D)   No owner or manager may employ a person under the age of 18 on the
licensed premises.
   (E)   No owner, manager, or employee may have been convicted of a sex crime,
as identified in M.S. §§ 609.293 to 609.352, 609.746 to 609.749, 609.79 or
518B.01, as they may be amended from time to time, or related statute dealing
with sexual assault, sexual conduct, harassment, obscenity, or domestic abuse
within the past five years.
   (F)   No business may exceed 10,000 square feet in gross floor area.
   (G)   No owner, manager or employee may allow a patron, employee, or other
person on the premises to physically contact, in public view, a specified
anatomical area of himself or herself or of another person, except that a live
performer may touch himself or herself.
   (H)   A live performer must remain at all times a minimum distance of ten
feet from members of the audience, and must perform on a platform intended for
that purpose, that must be raised at least two feet from the level of the floor
on which the audience is located. No performer may solicit or accept money, a
tip, or other item from a member of the audience.
   (I)   No business may have booths, stalls, partitioned portions of a room,
or individual rooms, except as follows:
      (1)   Restrooms are allowed as long as they are no larger than reasonably
necessary to serve the purposes of a restroom, no other activities are provided
or allowed in the rooms, and there are no chairs, benches, or reclining
surfaces in the rooms; and
      (2)   Storage rooms and private offices are allowed, if the storage rooms
and offices are used solely for running the business and no person other than
the owner, manager and employees is allowed in them.
   (J)   A licensee must not be open for business to the public:
      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the days of Monday through
Saturday; and
      (2)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon on Sundays.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.13 SUSPENSIONS AND REVOCATIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Delinquent taxes. The City Council may suspend or revoke a license
issued under this chapter for operation on a premises on which real estate
taxes, assessments or other financial claims of the city or of the state are
due, delinquent, or unpaid, unless the non-payment is not under the control of
the licensee. If an action has been commenced under M.S. Ch. 278, as it may be
amended from time to time, questioning the amount or validity of taxes, the
Council may on application by the licensee waive strict compliance with this
provision; no waiver may be granted, however, for taxes, or a portion of them,
that remain unpaid for a period exceeding one year after becoming due, unless
the one-year period is extended through no fault of the licensee.
   (B)   Violations. 
      (1)   The Council may either suspend for up to 60 days or revoke a
license for a violation upon a finding that the licensee or an agent or
employee of the licensee has failed to comply with an applicable statute,
regulation or ordinance relating to the subject matter of this chapter or
violated the statutes in division (B)(2) of this section. No suspension or
revocation will take effect until the licensee has been afforded an opportunity
for a hearing pursuant to M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.69, as they may be amended from
time to time, with the exception of the suspension provided for in division (B)
(2) of this section.
      (2)   Conviction of a sex crime, as identified in M.S. §§ 609.293 to
609.352, 609.746 to 609.749, 609.79 or 518B.01, as they may be amended from
time to time, or related statute dealing with sexual assault, sexual conduct,
harassment, obscenity or domestic abuse by the licensee will result in the
immediate suspension pending a hearing on revocation of a license issued under
this chapter.
   (C)   Prompt judicial review. Prompt and final judicial review shall be
provided to any applicant or licensee when a license is denied, suspended or
revoked.
CHAPTER 113: CANNABIS BUSINESSES
Section
   
113.01   Administration
   
113.02   Registration of cannabis businesses
   
113.03   Cannabis events
   
113.04   Retail sales regulations
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Findings and purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to implement the
provisions of M.S. Ch. 342, as it may be amended from time to time, which
authorizes the city to protect the public health, safety, welfare of its
residents by regulating cannabis businesses within the legal boundaries of Eden
Valley.
   (B)   Authority and jurisdiction. The city has the authority to adopt this
chapter pursuant to M.S. § 342.22, as it may be amended from time to time,
regarding the local registration and enforcement requirements of state-licensed
cannabis retail businesses and lower-potency hemp edible retail businesses.
This chapter shall be applicable within the legal boundaries of the city.
   (C)   Enforcement. The City Clerk, along with the city Police Department,
are responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter. Any
violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements constitutes a misdemeanor and is punishable as defined by law.
Violations of this chapter can occur regardless of whether or not a permit is
required for a regulated activity listed in this chapter.
   (D)   Definitions. Unless otherwise noted in this section, words and phrases
contained in M.S. § 342.01, as it may be amended from time to time, and the
rules promulgated pursuant to any of these acts, shall have the same meanings
in this chapter.
      CANNABIS BUSINESS. The meaning prescribed in M.S. § 342.01, subd. 14, as
it may be amended from time to time. All cannabis businesses are defined in §
150.002.
      CITY. The City of Eden Valley.
      OFFICE OF CANNABIS MANAGEMENT. Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management,
referred to as OCM in this chapter.
      PRELIMINARY LICENSE APPROVAL. OCM pre-approval for a cannabis business
license for applicants who qualify under M.S. § 342.17, as it may be amended
from time to time.
      REGISTRATION. An approved registration issued by the city to a state-
licensed cannabis retail business.
      STATE LICENSE. An approved license issued by the State of Minnesota’s
Office of Cannabis Management to a cannabis retail business.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 12-4-2024)
§ 113.02 REGISTRATION OF CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Consent to registering of cannabis businesses.
      (1)   No individual or entity may operate a state-licensed cannabis
retail business within the city without first registering with the city.
      (2)   Any state-licensed cannabis retail business that sells to a
customer or patient without valid retail registration shall incur a civil
penalty of up to $2,000 for each violation.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, the state shall not issue
a license to any cannabis business to operate in Indian country, as defined in
18 USC 1151, of a Minnesota tribal government without the consent of the tribal
government.
   (B)   Limited number of retail operations. The City of Eden Valley hereby
limits the number of cannabis retailers, cannabis mezzobusinesses with a retail
operations endorsement, cannabis microbusinesses with a retail operations
endorsement and medical combination businesses to two registrations. See M.S. §
342.13, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Compliance checks prior to retail registration. Prior to issuance of a
cannabis retail business registration, the city may conduct a preliminary
compliance check to ensure compliance with local ordinances. Pursuant to M.S.
Ch. 342, as it may be amended from time to time, within 30 days of receiving a
copy of a state license application from OCM, the city shall certify on a form
provided by OCM whether a proposed cannabis retail business complies with local
zoning ordinances and, if applicable, whether the proposed business complies
with the State Fire Code and Building Code.
   (D)   Registration and application procedure.
      (1)   Fees.
         (a)   Initial registration fee. A registration fee, as established in
the city’s fee schedule, shall be charged to applicants depending on the type
of retail business license applied for an initial retail registration fee and
shall not exceed $500 or half the amount of an initial state license fee under
M.S. § 342.11, as it may be amended from time to time, whichever is less. The
initial registration fee shall include the initial retail registration fee and
the first annual renewal fee.
         (b)   Renewal fees. Any renewal retail registration fee imposed by the
city shall be charged at the time of the second renewal and each subsequent
renewal thereafter. A renewal retail registration fee shall not exceed $1,000
or half the amount of a renewal state license fee under M.S. § 342.11, as it
may be amended from time to time, whichever is less.
         (c)   Medical combination business. A medical combination business
operating an adult-use retail location may only be charged a single
registration fee, not to exceed the lesser of a single retail registration fee,
defined under this section, of the adult-use retail business.
      (2)   Annual registration required. A local registration form must be
completed and signed by the license holder annually for each location operated
by the license holder.
      (3)   Application submittal. The city shall issue a retail registration
to a state-licensed cannabis retail business that adheres to the requirements
of M.S. § 342.22, as it may be amended from time to time.
         (a)   An applicant for a retail registration shall fill out an
application form, as provided by the city. Said form shall include, but is not
limited to:
            1.   Full name of the property owner and applicant;
            2.   Address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant;
            3.   The address and parcel ID for the property which the retail
registration is sought; and
            4.   Certification that the applicant complies with the
requirements of local ordinances established pursuant to M.S. § 342.13, as it
may be amended from time to time.
         (b)   The applicant shall include with the form:
            1.   The application fee; and
            2.   A copy of a valid state license or written notice of OCM
license preapproval.
         (c)   Once an application is considered complete, the City Clerk shall
inform the applicant as such, process the application fees, and forward the
application to the City Council for approval or denial.
         (d)   The application fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
      (4)   Application approval.
         (a)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application shall not
be approved or renewed if the applicant is unable to meet the requirements of
this chapter.
         (b)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application that meets
the requirements of this chapter shall be approved.
      (5)   Annual compliance checks. The city shall complete at minimum one
compliance check per calendar year of every cannabis business to assess if the
business meets age verification requirements, as required under M.S. §§ 342.22,
subd. 4(b) and 342.24, as they may be amended from time to time, and this
chapter. The city shall conduct at minimum one unannounced age verification
compliance check at least once per calendar year. Age verification compliance
checks shall involve persons at least 17 years of age but under the age of 21
who, with the prior written consent of a parent or guardian if the person is
under the age of 18, attempt to purchase adult-use cannabis flower, adult-use
cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer
products under the direct supervision of a law enforcement officer or an
employee of the local unit of government. Any failures under this section must
be reported to the Office of Cannabis Management.
      (6)   Registrations are non-transferrable. A retail registration under
this chapter may not be transferred. See M.S. § 342.22, subd. 3(d), as it may
be amended from time to time.
      (7)   Location change. A state-licensed cannabis retail business shall be
required to submit a new application for registration under this chapter if it
seeks to move to a new location still within the legal boundaries of the city.
      (8)   Annual renewal of registration. The city shall renew an annual
registration of a state-licensed cannabis retail business at the same time OCM
renews the cannabis retail business’s license. A state-licensed cannabis retail
business shall apply to renew registration on a form established by the city. A
cannabis retail registration issued under this chapter shall not be
transferred.
         (a)   Renewal fees. The city may charge a renewal fee for the
registration starting at the second renewal, as established in the city’s fee
schedule.
         (b)   Renewal application. The application for renewal of a retail
registration shall include, but is not limited to, the information required for
the initial application.
      (9)   Suspension of registration.
         (a)   When suspension is warranted. The city may suspend a cannabis
retail business’s registration if it violates this chapter or poses an
immediate threat to the health or safety of the public. The city shall
immediately notify the cannabis retail business in writing, the grounds for the
suspension.
         (b)   Notification to OCM. The city shall immediately notify the OCM
in writing the grounds for the suspension. OCM will provide the city and
cannabis business retailer a response to the complaint within seven calendar
days and perform any necessary inspections within 30 calendar days.
         (c)   Length of suspension. The city shall reinstate a registration if
OCM determines that the violation(s) have been resolved. The business may not
make sales to customers if their registration is suspended.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 12-4-2024)
§ 113.03 CANNABIS EVENTS.
   (A)   Before organizing and holding a cannabis event as described in M.S. §§
342.39 and 342.40, as they may be amended from time to time, local approval as
well as a cannabis event organizer license from the OCM is required. Applicants
must comply with the requirements of M.S. Ch. 342, including §§ 342.39 and
342.40, as they may be amended from time to time, and Minnesota Rules adopted
pursuant to M.S. Ch. 342, in addition to this chapter.
   (B)   The City of Eden Valley permission is required. A local request form
and permit, if applicable, must be completed and signed by the applicant a
minimum of 90 days prior to the proposed event date. The request form is
required for each event and for each location and must include the following:
      (1)   A legal description of the site, lot, field or tract of land upon
which the applicant intends to locate the proposed event, and a street address
if available.
      (2)   The source of all water supplies, sewage treatment methods and
disposal methods of garbage and refuse.
      (3)   The specific dates in which the applicant will operate the proposed
event.
      (4)   The applicant shall provide proof of ownership of all property upon
which the cannabis event is to be held or provide a notarized statement made
upon oath or affirmation by the record owner(s) of all such property that the
applicant has permission to use such property for the purpose of holding
cannabis event.
      (5)   A statement indicating whether cannabis, hemp, or cannabis and hemp
products, will be sold at the cannabis event.
      (6)   A statement indicating whether cannabis, hemp, or cannabis and hemp
products will be allowed to be consumed at the cannabis event.
      (7)   A complete description of all activities anticipated to be part of
the cannabis event.
      (8)   A list of all vendors who will be allowed to sell their products at
the cannabis event and a description of those products.
      (9)   An application shall be considered complete only when the City
Clerk or their representatives have approved the plans required under the terms
of this chapter.
   (C)   Retail sales shall be subject to compliance checks by law enforcement
to assess compliance with age verification requirements, applicable operation
requirements, and applicable limits on the types of cannabis flower, cannabis
products, lower-potency hemp edibles, and hemp-derived consumer products being
sold.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 12-4-2024)
§ 113.04 RETAIL SALES REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Operational and sales regulations. Every licensee is required to
follow and comply with all general operational requirements and prohibitions
and retail sales laws and regulations for retail cannabis businesses imposed by
the State of Minnesota. See M.S. §§ 342.24 and 342.27, as they may be amended
from time to time. Any violation of the requirements of state law or agency
rule pertaining to the retail sale of cannabis or hemp, or products containing
cannabis or hemp, shall also constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Additional local on-site consumption sale regulations. The city may
adopt reasonable restrictions on the time, place and manner of the operation of
a retail cannabis business and enforce its local ordinances. See M.S. § 342.13
(c), (f), and (h), as may be amended from time to time. The following are
considered additional violations of this chapter by retail cannabis businesses
with on-site consumption endorsements:
      (1)   No cannabis, hemp, or products containing cannabis or hemp may
remain on the counters, bars or tables of a cannabis business holding an on-
site consumption endorsement more than 45 minutes after the expiration of any
time of day when these items and products may legally be sold.
      (2)   No persons, except the cannabis business licensee, bona fide
employees of the licensee, and law enforcement officers may remain inside the
licensed business having an on-site consumption endorsement more than 30
minutes after the expiration of the time during which the cannabis, hemp, or
products containing cannabis or hemp may legally be sold.
   (C)   Limitations on hours of sale.
      (1)   Retail cannabis business. No sales of cannabis, hemp, or products
containing cannabis or hemp shall occur between 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
      (2)   Retail cannabis business with an on-site consumption endorsement
shall have the hours of the liquor establishment.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 12-4-2024)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Subject to M.S. § 342.22, subd. 5(e), as it may be amended from time to
time, the city may impose a civil penalty, as specified in the city’s fee
schedule, for registration violations of §
113.02, not to exceed $2,000.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 12-4-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Discharge of firearms
   
130.02   Curfew for minors
   
130.03   Fee schedule
§ 130.01 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   Unlawful to aim or discharge firearms. It shall be unlawful for any
person to aim any gun, pistol, revolver, or other firearm, whether it is loaded
or not, at or toward any human being, or to willfully discharge any firearm,
air gun, BB gun, or any other weapon or throw any deadly weapon in any public
place where there is any person to be endangered, although no injury results.
(Prior Code, § 901.010)
   (B)   Permits. It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm within the
city, except that the Chief of Police of the city may issue special permits for
specified times to residents to use firearms to control animal pests when no
better means is available.
(Prior Code, § 901.020)
   (C)   Exemptions. Nothing in this section shall be construed to embrace the
firing of any gun, pistol, or other firearm when done in the lawful defense of
person, family, or property or in the necessary enforcement of law.
(Prior Code, § 901.030) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Purpose. The curfew for minors established by this section is
maintained for four primary reasons:
      (1)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during
the curfew hours;
      (2)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
      (3)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the
curfew hours; and
      (4)   To help parents control their minor children.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety, or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor’s household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or Fire Department
personnel, and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
      OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference to the
master clock used by the Police Department.
      PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT OR REFRESHMENT. Those places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants, and pool halls.
      PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for
providing food, clothing, shelter, and other basic necessities to the minor.
The person providing primary care or custody to the minor shall not be another
minor.
      SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
   (C)   Hours.
      (1)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age of 16
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds, or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment, or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot,
between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city
time.
      (2)   Minors ages 16 years to 18 years. No minor of the ages of 16 or 17
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds, or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment, or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot,
between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official
city time.
   (D)   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to give a minor the right to stay out until the
curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by a parent,
guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the
minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or impair the control of
the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following situations:
      (1)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor;
      (2)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his
or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and
custody of the minor;
      (3)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession, or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business, trade, profession, or occupation and the minor’s
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor’s presence at work;
      (4)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from
an event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, school, religious institution, or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor’s
parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor;
      (5)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of
interstate travel during the hours of curfew;
      (6)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly, or freedom of religion;
      (7)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next- door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
city’s designated law enforcement provider about the minor’s presence; or
      (8)   To a minor who is married or has been married, or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
   (F)   Duties of person legally responsible for minor. No parent, guardian,
or other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall permit any
violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.
   (G)   Duties of other persons. No person operating or in charge of any place
of amusement, entertainment, or refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or
remain in his or her place of business during the hours prohibited by this
section unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or
other adult person having primary care or custody of the minor, or unless one
of the exceptions to this section applies.
   (H)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that
the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
city’s designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The fees shall be an amount set by the City Council from time to time.
(Res. 2018-28, passed 11-14-2018)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   ZONING
      
151.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
152.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
153.   RENTAL CODE
CHAPTER 150: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Title and application
   
150.002   Definitions
   
150.003   Classification of districts
   
150.004   Enforcement
   
150.005   Fee schedule
   
150.006   Supremacy
Districts
   
150.020   AG Agricultural District
   
150.021   RSF Single- and Two-Family Residential District
   
150.022   RMF Multiple-Family Residential District
   
150.023   Manufactured Housing Residential District/Manufactured Home Park
   
150.024   COM Highway Commercial Business District
   
150.025   COM-R Commercial Reserve District
   
150.026   CBD Central Business District
   
150.027   IND Industrial District
Surface Water Management
   
150.040   Findings
   
150.041   Purpose
   
150.042   Scope and effect
   
150.043   Surface water (stormwater) management plan approval procedures
   
150.044   Plan review procedure
   
150.045   Approval standards
Planned Unit Developments
   
150.060   Purpose
   
150.061   Regulations
   
150.062   Administrative procedures
   
150.063   General regulations
Home Occupations
   
150.075   Purpose
   
150.076   Regulations
   
150.077   Process
   
150.078   Permitted home occupation regulations
   
150.079   Special home occupation
   
150.080   eneral provisions
   
150.081   Nonconforming use
   
150.082   Inspection
Signs
   
150.095   Purpose
   
150.096   Prohibited signs
   
150.097   Regulations
   
150.098   Exemptions
   
150.099   Permitted signs in AG, RSF, RMF, and RMHD Districts
   
150.100   Permitted signs in COM, CBD, and IND Districts
Off-Street Parking
   
150.115   Purpose
   
150.116   Regulations
   
150.117   Exceptions
Solar and Wind Generating Facilities
   
150.120   Solar and Wind Electric-Generating Facilities Regulations
General District Provisions
   
150.130   Purpose
   
150.131   Dwelling unit regulations
   
150.132   Accessory buildings
   
150.133   General building yard regulations
   
150.134   Outdoor storage
   
150.135   Fencing, screening, and landscaping
   
150.136   Moving of buildings
   
150.137   Vision clearance at corners, curb cuts, and railroad crossings
   
150.138   Lighting
   
150.139   Noise
   
150.140   Odors
   
150.141   Satellite dishes and other dishes
   
150.142   Residential pools
   
150.143   Land reclamation and mining
   
150.144   Antennas
   
150.145   Compliance
   150.146   Cannabis businesses
Administration
   
150.160   Purpose
   
150.161   Application
   
150.162   Existing lots
   
150.163   Nonconformance
   
150.164   Enforcement Officer
   
150.165   Board of Adjustment
   
150.166   Planning Commission
   
150.167   City Council
   
150.168   Zoning amendments
   
150.169   Conditional use permits
   
150.170   Variances
   
150.171   Site permits
   
Appendix:   Zoning Map
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 TITLE AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known as the “Eden Valley Zoning
Ordinance”, except as referred to herein, where it shall be known as “this
chapter” and shall supersede any previous ordinance specifically pertaining to
the regulation of land uses/zoning within the city.
(Prior Code, § 501.010)
   (B)   Intent and purpose. The intent of this chapter is to protect the
public health, safety, and general welfare of the city and its people through
the establishment of minimum regulations governing development and use. This
chapter shall divide the city into use districts and establish regulations in
regard to location, erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, and use
of structures and land. Such regulations are established to provide adequate
light, air, and convenience of access to property; to prevent congestion in the
public right-of-way; to prevent overcrowding of land and undue concentration of
structures by regulating land, buildings, yards, and density of population; to
provide for compatibility of different land uses; to provide for administration
of this chapter; to provide for amendments; to prescribe penalties for
violation of such regulations; and to define powers and duties for violation of
such regulations; and to define powers and duties of the city staff, the Board
of Adjustment and Appeals, the Planning Commission, and the City Council in
relation to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 501.020)
   (C)   Short title. This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Eden
Valley Zoning Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 501.030)
   (D)   Standard requirements.
      (1)   Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of this chapter are
either more or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by other
ordinance, rule, or regulation of the city, the ordinance, rule, or regulation
which imposes the more restrictive condition standard or requirements shall
prevail.
      (2)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to the minimum requirements for the promotion of the
public health, safety, and welfare.
      (3)   No structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, or used for any
purpose which is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
shall include changes in the use of the property.
      (4)   Except as herein provided, no building, structure, or premises
shall hereafter be used or occupied and no site permit shall be granted that
does not conform to the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 501.040)
   (E)   Uses not provided for within zoning districts.
      (1)   Whenever, in any zoning district, a use is neither specifically
permitted nor denied, the use shall be considered prohibited. In such case, the
City Council or the Planning Commission, on their own initiative or upon
request, may conduct a study to determine if the use is acceptable, and, if so,
what zoning district would be most appropriate and the determination as to
conditions and standards relating to development of the use.
      (2)   The City Council, Planning Commission, or property owner shall, if
appropriate, initiate an amendment to this chapter to provide for the
particular use under consideration or shall find that the use is not compatible
for development within the city.
(Prior Code, § 501.050)
   (F)   Rules. The language set forth in the text of this chapter shall be
interpreted in accordance with the following rules of construction:
      (1)   The singular number includes the plural and the plural the
singular;
      (2)   The present tense includes the past and the future tenses, and the
future the present;
      (3)   The word “shall” is mandatory while the word “may” is permissive;
and
      (4)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
(Prior Code, § 501.070)
(Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE. A subordinate building or use which is located on
the same lot on which the main building or use is situated and is reasonably
necessary and incidental to the conduct of the primary or principal use of such
building or main use.
   ADDRESS SIGN. A sign communicating street address only, whether written or
in numerical form.
   ADVERTISING SIGNS. A billboard, poster panel board, painted bulletin board,
or other communicative device which is used to advertise products, goods, and/
or services which are not exclusively related to the premises on which the sign
is located.
   AGRICULTURE USES. Those uses commonly associated with the growing of produce
on farms. These include, but are not limited to: field crop farming; pasture
for hay; fruit growing; tree, plant, shrub, or flower nursery without
buildings.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords secondary access to abutting
property.
   ALTERATION. As applied to a building or structure, is a change or
rearrangement in exterior structural parts, or enlargement or the moving from
one location to another.
   APARTMENT. A part of a building consisting of a room or suite of rooms which
is designed for, intended for, or used as a residence for one family or an
individual and equipped with cooking facilities.
   APARTMENT BUILDING. Three or more suites of rooms, which are each designed
for, intended for, or occupied as a residence by a single family or an
individual, and are each equipped with cooking facilities (includes dwelling
units and efficiency units).
   APPLICANT. Any person who wishes to obtain a zoning permit, zoning, or
subdivision approval.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR. General repair, rebuilding, or reconditioning engines,
motor vehicles, or trailers; collision service, including, but not limited to,
body, frame, or fender straightening or repair; and painting and vehicle steam
cleaning.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING OR JUNK YARD. Any place where two or more vehicles not
in running condition and/or not licensed, or parts thereof, are stored in the
open and are not being restored to operation; or any land, building, or
structure used for wrecking or storing of such motor vehicles or parts thereof;
and including any commercial salvaging and scavenging of any other goods,
articles, or merchandise.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its floor
or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless of the
depth of excavation below ground level.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. A building other than a hotel where, for compensation and
by pre-arrangement for definite periods, lodging or lodging and meals are
provided to three or more persons, not of the principal family therein,
pursuant to previous arrangements and not to anyone who may apply, but not
including a building providing these services for more than ten people.
   BILLBOARD. See ADVERTISING SIGN.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have
been provided.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. A distance to be measured from the average ground level to
the top of a flat roof, to the highest gable on a pitched or hip roof, to the
deckline of a mansard roof, to the uppermost point on other roof types.
   BUILDING SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between the building and
the specified lot line as prescribed in this chapter.
   BUSINESS. Any establishment, occupation, employment, or enterprise where
merchandise is manufactured, exhibited, or sold or where services are offered
for compensation.
   BUSINESS SIGN. Any sign which identifies a business or group of businesses,
either retail or wholesale, or any sign which identifies a profession or is
used in the identification or promotion of any principal commodity or service,
including, but not limited to, entertainment, offered, or sold upon the
premises where such sign is located.
   CAMPGROUND. An area accessible by vehicle and containing campsites or
camping spurs for tent and trailer camping.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION. A cannabis business licensed to grow cannabis plants
within the approved amount of space from seed or immature plant to mature
plant, harvest cannabis flower from mature plant, package and label immature
plants and seedlings and cannabis flower for sale to other cannabis businesses,
transport cannabis flower to a cannabis manufacturer located on the same
premises, and perform other actions approved by the OCM.
   CANNABIS DELIVERY SERVICE. Fleet-based business. Purchase products from
cannabis businesses with a retail endorsement and deliver to customers
(retail).
   CANNABIS EVENT. An event one to four days allowing the consumption of
cannabis products.
   CANNABIS–LOWER POTENCY. See HEMP.
   CANNABIS MANUFACTURING. The process of turning raw, dried cannabis and
cannabis parts into other types of cannabis products, such as edible or
topicals.
   CANNABIS MEDICAL. To grow, harvest, manufacture, package, label, sell to
other cannabis business, sell to qualifying customers (retail).
   CANNABIS MEZZOBUSINESS WITH GROWING AND MANUFACTURING ENDORSEMENT. To grow,
manufacture, process, sell, cultivate less than 15,000 square feet plant canopy
indoors, cultivate less than one acre outdoors, up to three retail locations.
   CANNABIS MICROBUSINESS WITH GROWING AND MANUFACTURING ENDORSEMENT. To grow,
manufacture, package, label, sell, cultivate less than 5,000 square feet plant
canopy indoors/cultivate less than one-half acre outdoors, one retail location,
on-site consumption. OCM may adjust plant canopy limits upward to meet market
demand.
   CANNABIS RETAIL SALE(S). The act of selling certain cannabis products at a
retail location and the retail location(s) of a mezzobusinesses with a retail
operations endorsement, microbusinesses with a retail operations endorsement,
medical combination businesses operating a retail location, and lower-potency
hemp edible retailers.
   CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY. Obtain and test cannabis.
   CANNABIS TRANSPORT. Fleet-based business. To transport to/from cannabis
businesses.
   CANNABIS WHOLESALE. To purchase, import, sell to cannabis businesses (non-
retail).
   CARPORT. A canopy constructed of metal or other materials supported by posts
either ornamental or solid and completely open on three sides.
   CHURCH. A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, where
persons regularly assemble for religious worship and which building, together
with its accessory buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a
religious body organized to sustain public worship.
   CLEAR-CUTTING. The removal of an entire stand of vegetation.
   CLINIC. A place for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing, or
injured individuals.
   CLUB or LODGE. A nonprofit association of persons who are members paying
annual dues, use of premises being restricted to members and their guests.
   COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURAL. The use of land for the production of livestock,
and livestock products, fur farms, commercial animal feed lots, and kennels.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION. Bowling alleys, cart tracks, jump centers, golf, pool
halls, vehicle racing or amusement, dance halls, skating, taverns, theatres,
boat rentals, amusement rides, campgrounds, and similar uses.
   COMMERCIAL USES. All permitted and accessory uses allowed in commercial
zoning districts.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use, which because of special problems of control the use
permits, requires reasonable, but special, unusual and extraordinary
limitations peculiar to the use for the protection of the public welfare and
the integrity of the City Comprehensive Plan.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Council in accordance with
procedures specified in this chapter, as a flexibility device to enable the
Council to assign dimensions to a proposed use or conditions surrounding it
after consideration of adjacent uses and their functions and the special
problems which the proposed use presents.
   CONDOMINIUM. A multiple dwelling containing individually owned dwelling
units and jointly owned and shared areas and facilities, which dwelling is
subject to the provisions of the Minnesota Condominium Law, M.S. §§ 515.01 to
515.29, as they may be amended from time to time.
   CONTROL MEASURE. A practice or combination of practices to control erosion
and attendant pollution.
   CONVENIENCE FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment which serves food in or on
disposable or edible containers in individual servings for consumption on or
off the premises.
   COOPERATIVE (HOUSING). A multiple-family dwelling owned and maintained by
the residents. The entire structure and real property is under common ownership
as contrasted to a condominium dwelling where individual units are under
separate individual occupant ownership.
   CURB LEVEL. The level of the established curb in front of the building
measured at the center of such front.
   DAY CARE GROUP NURSERY. A service provided to the public, in which children
of school or preschool age are cared for during established business hours.
   DAY CARE HOME. A family dwelling in which supervision and/or training for
children is provided during part of a day with no overnight accommodations and
where children are delivered and removed daily.
   DETENTION FACILITY. A permanent natural or human-made structure, including
wetlands, for the temporary storage of stormwater runoff which contains a
permanent pool of water.
   DISTRICT. A section or sections of the city for which the regulations and
provisions governing the use of buildings and lands are uniform for each class
of use permitted therein.
   DOG KENNEL. Any place where three dogs or more over six months of age are
boarded, bred, and/or offered for sale, except a veterinary clinic. DOG KENNELS
shall be permitted only in areas specifically zoned for such use.
   DREDGING. To enlarge or clean out a waterbody, watercourse, or wetland.
   DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment which accommodates the patron’s
automobile from which products purchased from the establishment may be
consumed.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE (APARTMENTS). A building designated with three or more
dwelling units exclusively for occupancy by three or more families living
independently of each other, but having hallways and main entrances and exits.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached dwelling unit designed for occupancy of
one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A dwelling designed exclusively for occupancy by two
families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT. A residential building or portion thereof intended for
occupancy by a family, but not including hotels, motels nursing homes, seasonal
cabins, bed and breakfasts, tourist homes, or trailers.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land which
includes, but is not limited to, the constructing and maintaining of utilities,
including, but not limited to, sanitary sewer, water mains, electric lines,
telephone line, cable television, storm sewer or storm drainageway, and gas
lines.
   EAVE HEIGHT. A distance to be measured from the average ground level to the
lowest point of the building eave line.
   EFFICIENCY APARTMENT. A dwelling unit, consisting of one principal room
exclusive of bathroom, hallway, closets, or dining alcove.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam, or water
distribution systems; collection, communication, supply, or disposal systems
including, but not limited to, poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes,
conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, or other similar
equipment and accessories in conjunction therewith, but not including
buildings.
   EXTERIOR MATERIAL OR FINISH. Material or cladding that is adhered to the
outside of a dwelling, including, but not limited to, siding, windows and door
casings, corner boards, soffits, and facia.
   FAMILY. An individual or two or more persons related by blood or marriage or
a group of not more than five unrelated persons living together on the premises
or in a single housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a
boarding house, lodging house, hotel, or club lodge, as herein described.
   FARM. A tract of land, that is principally used for commercial agriculture.
   FARM DWELLING. A single-family dwelling located on a farm which is used or
intended for use by the farm’s owner, a relative of the owner, or a person
employed thereon.
   FEEDLOT. A lot or building, or combination of contiguous lots and buildings,
intended for the confined feeding, breeding, raising, or holding of animals and
specifically designed as a confinement area in which manure may accumulate, or
where the concentration of animals is such that a vegetative cover cannot be
maintained within the enclosure. For purposes of these parts, open lots used
for feeding and rearing of poultry (poultry ranges) and barns, dairy farms,
swine facilities, beef lots and barns, horse stalls, and domesticated animal
zoos shall be considered to be animal FEEDLOTS. Pastures shall not be
considered animal FEEDLOTS under these parts.
   FENCE. A barrier forming a boundary to or enclosing some area.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal area of the several floors of a
building, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls.
   FORESTRY. The management, including logging, of a forest, woodland, or
plantation, and related research and educational activities, including, but not
limited to, the construction, alteration, or maintenance of wood roads, skid
roads, landing, and fences.
   FOUNDATION. Constructed of masonry, concrete, or treated wood. Treated wood
of not less than .60 “below grade” standards. All footings supporting the
foundation shall be placed at a minimum depth of three and one-half feet below
finished grade. This definition shall not apply to a building constructed on a
reinforced concrete slab if such slab forms the ground floor of the building.
   GARAGE. An accessory building or accessory portion of the principal building
intended for and used to store the private passenger vehicles of the family or
families residing upon the premises.
   GOVERNMENTAL SIGN. A sign which is erected by a governmental unit, for the
purpose of identification and directing or guiding of traffic.
   GRADING. Changing the natural or existing topography of land.
   GUESTROOM. A room occupied by one or more guests for compensation and in
which no provision is made for cooking.
   HEMP. Also referred to as LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. To purchase,
manufacture, package, label, sell (non-retail).
   HEMP RETAILER. Also referred to as LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE RETAILER. Sell
to customers (retail).
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or profession engaged in by the occupant of
a residential dwelling unit, which is clearly incidental and secondary to the
residential use of the premises and does not change the character of said
premises.
   HOTEL. Any building or portion thereof occupied as the more or less
temporary abiding place of individuals and containing six or more guest rooms,
used, designated, or intended to be used, let, or hired out to be occupied or
which are occupied by six or more individuals for compensation, whether the
compensation be paid directly or indirectly.
   HYDRIC SOILS. Soils that are saturated, flooded, or ponded long enough
during the growing season to develop anaerobic conditions in the upper part.
   HYDROPHYTIC VEGETATION. Macrophytic plant life growing in water, soil, or on
a substrate that is at least periodically deficient in oxygen as a result of
excessive water content.
   IDENTIFICATION SIGNS. Signs located in a residential district which identify
a subdivision, apartment complex, or similar identifications and set forth the
address of the premises where the sign is located.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. An artificial or natural surface through which water,
air, or roots cannot penetrate.
   INDUSTRIAL USE. A permitted or accessory use allowed in the Industrial I
District.
   JUNK OR SALVAGE YARD. Land or building where waste, discarded or salvaged
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, cleaned, packed, disassembled,
or handled, including, but not limited to, scrap metal, rags, paper, rubber
products, glass products, lumber products, and products from wrecking of
automobiles and other vehicles.
   LAND DISTURBING OR DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES. Any change of the land surface
including removing vegetative cover, excavating filling, grading, and the
construction of any structure.
   LODGING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel, where for compensation for
definite periods, lodging is provided for three or more persons not of the
principal family, but not including a building providing this service for more
than ten persons.
   LODGING ROOM. A room rented as sleeping and living quarters but without
cooking facilities and with or without an individual bathroom. In a suite of
rooms without cooking facilities, each room which provides sleeping
accommodation shall be counted as one LODGING ROOM.
   LOT. Land occupied or to be occupied by a building and its accessory
buildings, together with such open spaces as are required under the provisions
of this zoning regulation.
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane within the lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two or more
intersecting streets; or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of a
single street, the interior angle of which is 135 degrees or less.
   LOT COVERAGE. The area of a lot occupied by the principal building or
buildings and accessory buildings.
   LOT, DEPTH. The shortest horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line measured from a 90-degree angle from the street right-of-way
within the lot boundaries.
   LOT, FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall, for purposes of complying with this
chapter, be that boundary having the least width, abutting a public right-of-
way.
   LOT, LINE. A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separated
ownership, except that where any portion of a lot extends into the abutting
street or alley, the lot line shall be deemed to be the street or alley right-
of-way.
   LOT (OF RECORD). A parcel of land, whether subdivided or otherwise legally
described, as of the effective date of this chapter, which is occupied by or
intended for occupancy by one principal building or principal use together with
any accessory buildings and such open spaces as required by this chapter and
having its principal frontage on a street or proposed street approved by the
Council.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot fronting on two parallel streets.
   LOT, WIDTH. The shortest horizontal distance between the side lot lines
measured at right angles at the building line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, used
as a dwelling for one family, with or without a permanent foundation, when
connected to the required utilities, which includes the plumbing, heating, air
conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein. No manufactured
dwelling shall be moved into the city that does not meet the Manufactured Home
Building Code, M.S. § 327.31, as it may be amended from time to time.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any site, lot, or tract of land under single
ownership designed, maintained, or intended for the placement of two or more
occupied manufactured homes. This also includes any buildings or structures
appurtenant to the park.
   MANUFACTURING , HEAVY. The manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging,
treatment, or assembly of products and materials that may emit objectionable
and offensive influences beyond the lot on which the use is located.
   MANUFACTURING, LIGHT. All uses which include the compounding, processing,
packaging, treatment, or assembly of products and materials, provided, such use
will not generate offensive odors, glare, smoke, dust, noise, vibration, or
other objectionable influences that significantly extend beyond the lot on
which the use is located.
   MINING OPERATION. The removal from the land of stone, sand and/or gravel,
coal, salt, iron, copper, nickel, granite, petroleum products, or other
material for commercial, industrial, or governmental purposes.
   MOBILE HOME. A dwelling unit designed for transportation after fabrication
on streets or highways on its own wheels or on flatbed or other trailers and
arriving at the site ready for occupancy except for incidental assembly,
location on foundation, connection to utilities, and the like.
   MODULAR HOME. A non-mobile housing unit that is basically fabricated at a
central factory and transported to a building site where final installations
are made permanently affixing the module to the site.
   MOTOR FUEL STATION. A place where gasoline (stored only in underground
tanks), kerosene, motor oil, lubricants, and grease for operation of vehicles
are stored or sold to the public. This also includes accessories and services
for automobiles.
   NAME PLATE. A sign indicating the name and/or address of a building or the
name of an occupant thereof, and the practice of a permitted occupation
therein.
   NATURAL DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All land surface areas which by nature of their
contour configuration collect, store, and channel surface water runoff.
   NATURAL OBSTRUCTION. Any rock, tree, gravel, or analogous natural matter
that is an obstruction and has been located within a waterbody, watercourse, or
wetland by a non-human cause.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING. A building or portion thereof existing at the time
of adoption of this chapter and not conforming to the regulations for the
district in which it is situated, except that such a use is not nonconforming
if it would be permitted under a conditional use permit where located.
   NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND. Any use of a lot which does not conform to the
applicable use regulations of the district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE OF STRUCTURE. A use of a structure which does not conform
to the applicable use regulations of the district in which it is located.
   NURSING HOME (REST HOME). A building having accommodations where care is
provided for two or more invalids, infirmed, aged convalescent, or physically
disabled persons that are not of the immediate family; but not including
hospitals, clinics, sanitariums, or similar institutions.
   OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE. A space accessible from the street, alley, or way,
in a building or on the lot, for the use of trucks while loading or unloading
merchandise or materials. Such space shall be of such size as to accommodate
one truck of the type typically used in the particular business.
   ON-PREMISES SIGNS. A sign located on the premises or property of an
individual, business, or organization, identifying the products or services
provided on the premises, or the name of the individual, business, or
organization operating on the premises.
   OPEN SPACE RECREATIONAL USE. Recreational use particularly oriented to and
utilizing the character of an area, including hiking and riding trails,
primitive campsites, campgrounds, waysides, parks, and recreational areas.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK. A mark delineating the highest water level which
has been maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape. In areas where the ordinary high water mark is not evident, setbacks
shall be measured from the stream bank.
   PARKING SPACE. An area, enclosed in the main building, in an accessory
building or unenclosed, sufficient in size to store one automobile which has
adequate access to a public street or alley and permitting satisfactory ingress
and egress for an automobile.
   PERMITTED USE. A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations
and performance standards (if any) of such districts.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, or
organization of any kind.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of Eden Valley.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A large lot or tract of land developed as a unit
rather than as individual development wherein two or more buildings may be
located in relationship to each other rather than to lot lines or zoning
district boundaries.
   PORTABLE SIGN. A sign so designed as to be movable from one location to
another and which is not permanently attached to the ground, sales display
device, or structure.
   PRINCIPAL USE/BUILDING. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished
from subordinate or accessory uses.
   PUBLIC USE. Uses owned or operated by a municipality, school district,
county, state, or other governmental unit.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation, municipal department, or
board fully authorized to furnish under municipal regulation to the public,
electricity, gas, steam, communication services, telegraph services,
transportation, water, sewer, and storm sewer.
   PUBLIC WATER. Any waters of the state which serve a beneficial public
purpose, as defined in M.S. Ch. 103F, as it may be amended from time to time,
however, no lake, pond, or floodage of less than ten acres in size and no river
or stream having a total drainage area less than two square miles. Such public
water shall be determined by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources. Any
body of water created by a private user where there was no previous shoreland
for a designated private use as approved by the Commission of the Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources is not included as a PUBLIC WATER.
   RECREATIONAL FIELD OR BUILDING. An area of land, water, or any building in
which amusement, recreation or athletic sports are provided for public or semi-
public use, whether temporary or permanent, except a theater, whether provision
is made for the accommodation of an assembly or not. A golf course, arena,
baseball park, stadium, circus or gymnasium is a RECREATION FIELD OR BUILDING
for the purpose of this chapter.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular portable structure used for amusement,
vacation, or recreational activities, including, but not limited to, travel
trailers, motor homes, camping trailers, and boats.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment which serves food to be consumed primarily
while seated at tables or booths within the building.
   RETENTION FACILITY. A permanent natural or human-made structure that
provides for the storage of stormwater runoff by means of a permanent pool of
water.
   SCREENING. The use of plant materials, fences, or earthen berms to partially
conceal the separate land use from the surrounding land use.
   SELECTIVE CUTTING. The removal of single scattered trees.
   SEDIMENT. Solid matter carried by water, sewage, or other liquids.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure and the
ordinary high water mark or between a structure and a road or highway right-of-
way line, public right-of-way, or property line.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any system for the collection, treatment, and
dispersions of sewage, including, but not limited to, septic tanks, soil
absorption systems, and drain fields.
   SIGN. The use of any words, numerals, figures, devices, or trademarks by
which anything is made known, such as are used to show an individual, firm,
profession, or business and are visible to the general public.
   SLOPE. The degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal usually
expressed in percent or degrees.
   STORY. The portion of a building included above and between the upper
surface of a floor and upper surface of floor next above, except that the
topmost story shall be that portion of a building included between the upper
surface of the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above.
   STORY, HALF. The portion of a building under a gable, hip, or gambrel roof,
the wall plate of which, on at least two opposite exterior walls are not more
than four feet above the floor of such story.
   STREET. A platted public thoroughfare affording for current or future means
of access to abutting property.
   STREET FRONTAGE. The proximity of a parcel of land to one or more streets.
An interior lot has one STREET FRONTAGE and a corner lot has two STREET
FRONTAGES.
   STRUCTURE. Anything which is built, constructed, or erected. An edifice or
building of any kind or any piece of work artificially built up and/or composed
of parts joined together in some definite manner whether temporary or permanent
in character.
   SUBSTANDARD USE. Any use existing prior to the date of this chapter which is
permitted within the applicable zoning district, but does not meet the minimum
lot area, frontage, setbacks, or other dimensional standards of this chapter.
   TARP/POLYVINYL STRUCTURES. Buildings covered primarily with canvas, plastic,
or other similar nonpermanent building materials. This shall not include
temporary structures used solely as greenhouses.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign which is erected or displayed for a specified
period of time.
   TOWNHOUSES. Structures housing two or more dwelling units of not more than
two stories each and contiguous to each other only by sharing one common wall,
such structures to be of the town or row houses type as contrasted to multiple
dwelling apartment structures. No single structure shall contain in excess of
eight dwelling units, and each dwelling unit shall have separate and individual
front and rear entrances.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designated, arranged, or intended or for which it is occupied, utilized, or
maintained and shall include the performance of such activity as defined by the
performance standards of this chapter.
   USE, ACCESSORY. A use incidental or accessory to the principal use of a lot
or a building located on the same lot with a building.
   VACATION. The act of relinquishing a recorded dedication or easement as in a
street right-of-way, utility easement, and the like.
   VARIANCE. The waiving action of the literal provisions of this chapter in
instances where their strict enforcement would cause undue hardship because of
physical circumstances unique to the individual property under consideration.
   VEGETATION. The sum total of plant life in some area or a plant community
with distinguishable characteristics.
   WATERBODY. A body of water (lake, pond) in a depression of land or expanded
part of a river or an enclosed basin that holds water and is surrounded by
land.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel or depression through which water flows, such as
rivers, streams, or creeks and may flow year around or intermittently.
   WATERSHED. The area drained by the natural and artificial drainage system,
bounded peripherally by a bridge or stretch of high land dividing drainage
areas.
   WETLANDS.
      (1)   Lands transitional between terrestrial and aquatic systems where
the water table is usually at or near the surface or the land is covered by
shallow water.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, WETLANDS must have the
following three attributes:
         (a)   Have a predominance of hydric soils;
         (b)   Are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of hydrophytic
vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions; and
         (c)   Under normal circumstances support a prevalence of such
vegetation.
   YARD. An open space on the lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its
lowest level to the sky. A YARD extends along a lot line at right angles to
such lot line to a depth or width specified in the yard regulations for the
zoning district in which such lot is located.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of the lot between and lying
between the front line of the lot and the nearest line of the building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the side line of the lot and the nearest line of
the building and extending from the front line of the lot to the rear yard.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The person appointed by the City Council to enforce
this chapter.
   ZONING MAP. The maps or map incorporated into this chapter as part thereof,
as amended, designating the zoning districts.
(Prior Code, § 502.000) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003; Ord. 2020-002, passed 8-5-2020;
Ord. 2024-03, passed 4-3-2024; Ord. 05-2024, passed 8-7-2024; Ord. 2024-09,
passed 12-4-2024)
§ 150.003 CLASSIFICATION OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Establishment of districts. The following zoning districts are hereby
established within the city.
AG    Agricultural District
RSF   Single- and Two-Family Residential District
RMF   Multiple-Family Residential District
RMHD  Residential Manufactured Home District
COM   Highway Commercial District
COM-R Commercial Reserve
CBD   Central Business District
IND   Industrial District
 
(Prior Code, § 503.010)
   (B)   Map. The location and boundaries of the districts established by this
chapter are hereby set forth on the zoning map entitled “Zoning Map of Eden
Valley”. Said map is on file with the Zoning Administrator, and hereinafter
referred to as the zoning map which map and all of the notations, references,
and other information shown thereon shall have the same force and effect as if
fully set forth herein and thereby made a part of this chapter by reference.
(Prior Code, § 503.020)
   (C)   Annexation. In the event of annexation of new areas to the city, such
areas shall be considered to be in the AG Agricultural District until otherwise
classified.
(Prior Code, § 503.030)
   (D)   Zoning district boundaries.
      (1)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerline of
streets, highways, alleys, or railroad lines shall be construed to follow such
centerlines.
      (2)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following plotted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines.
      (3)   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be construed to
follow such shorelines, and in the event of change in shoreline, shall be
construed as moving with the actual shoreline; boundaries indicated as
approximately following the centerlines of streams, rivers, lakes, or other
bodies of water shall be construed to following such centerlines.
      (4)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the city limits
shall be construed as following such city limits.
      (5)   Where a district boundary line divides a lot which was in a single
ownership at the time of passage of this chapter, the extension of the
regulations for either portion of the lot beyond the district line into the
remaining portion of the lot may be interpreted by the Zoning Administrator
upon request of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 503.040)
   (E)   District regulations. The regulations of this chapter within each
district shall be minimum regulations, and shall apply uniformly to each class
or kind of structure of land, except as hereinafter provided.
      (1)   No buildings, structures, or land shall hereafter be used or
occupied and no building structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered, except in
conformity with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in
which it is located.
      (2)   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or
altered to exceed the height or bulk, to accommodate or house a greater number
of families, to occupy a greater percentage of lot area, to have narrower or
smaller rear yards, front yard, side yards, or other open spaces than herein
required or in any other manner contrary to the provision of this chapter.
      (3)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter
shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall
meet at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
      (4)   Except in the case of planned unit development, not more than one
principal building shall be located on a lot.
      (5)   No provision hereunder shall be construed so as to prevent
emergency repair/rebuild of existing essential services, provided, said repair/
rebuild does not exceed area, width, height, and the like in existence and
conforming to this chapter prior to the emergent situation.
(Prior Code, § 503.050)
   (F)   Amendments. It shall be the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator
to maintain the zoning map. Amendments to said zoning map shall be recorded
thereon within 30 days after official publication of amendments. The city
zoning map shall be kept on file in the City Clerk/Treasurer’s office.
(Prior Code, § 503.060)
(Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.004 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violations. In cases where a building or structure is erected,
constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained or any
building, structure, or land is used in violation of this chapter, the Zoning
Administrator, in addition to other remedies may institute any proper action or
proceedings in the name of the City. The Zoning Administrator shall hereby have
the power of a police officer to prevent unlawful erection, construction,
repair, conversion, maintenance, or use to restrain, correct, or abate such
violation to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about
said premises. It shall be the duty of the City Attorney’s office to institute
action.
(Prior Code, § 520.010)
   (B)   Application to city personnel. The failure of any officer or employee
of the city to perform any official duty imposed by this chapter shall not
subject the officer or employee to a penalty imposed for violation unless a
penalty is specifically provided for such failure.
   (C)   Equitable release. In the event of a violation or the threatened
violation of any provision of this chapter or any provision or condition of a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter, the city in addition to other remedies,
may institute appropriate actions or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct,
or abate such violation or threatened violation.
(Prior Code, § 520.020)
(Ord. passed 10-8-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.005 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The fees shall be an amount set by the City Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 524.000) (Res. 2005-3, passed 1-5-2005; Res. 2018-26, passed 11-
14-2018)
§ 150.006 SUPREMACY.
   When any condition imposed by any provision of this chapter on the use of
land or buildings or on the bulk of buildings is either more restrictive or
less restrictive than similar conditions imposed by any provision of any other
city ordinance or regulation, the more restrictive conditions shall prevail.
This chapter is not intended to abrogate any easements, restrictions, or
covenants relating to the use of land or imposed on lands within the city by
private declaration or agreement, but where the provisions of this chapter are
more restrictive than any such easement, restriction, or covenant or the
provision of any private agreement, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail.
(Prior Code, § 521.000) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
DISTRICTS
§ 150.020 AG AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The Agricultural District is designed for areas within the
city that may presently be used for row crop agriculture. The purpose of the
Agricultural District is to provide for existing agricultural uses prior to
their development and transition to urban uses as specified in the City
Comprehensive Plan.
(Prior Code, § 504.010)
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in the AG
Agricultural District:
      (1)   Public parks and playgrounds, recreational areas, and wildlife
areas/refuges;
      (2)   Agricultural uses as defined in this chapter, but not including
commercial agricultural uses as defined in this chapter;
      (3)   Essential services;
      (4)   Single-family residential; provided, that the parcel complies with
standards established in §
150.021;
      (5)   Cannabis cultivation;
      (6)   Cannabis manufacturing;
      (7)   Cannabis delivery service;
      (8)   Cannabis mezzobusinesses with growing and manufacturing
endorsement;
      (9)   Cannabis microbusinesses with growing and manufacturing
endorsement;
      (10)   Cannabis transport; and
      (11)   Existing livestock operation shall be permitted under this
section.
(Prior Code, § 504.020)
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following are conditional uses in the AG
Agricultural District (requires a conditional use permit based upon procedures
set forth in and regulated by §§
150.160 through
150.171);
      (1)   Governmental and public-related utility buildings and structures
necessary for the health, safety, and general welfare of the city; provided,
that:
         (a)   When abutting a residential use in a residential use district,
the property is adequately screened and landscaped; and
         (b)   Compatibility with the surrounding neighborhood is maintained
and required setbacks and side yard requirements are met.
      (2)   Airports, cemeteries, and golf courses;
      (3)   Uses determined by the Planning Commission of similar nature to the
conditional uses cited above and not found to be detrimental to the general
health and welfare of the city;
      (4)   Cannabis medical combination business; and
      (5)   Lower-potency hemp edible.
(Prior Code, § 504.030)
   (D)   Interim uses. The following is an interim use in the AG Agriculture
District (requires an interim use permit based upon procedures set forth in and
regulated by §§
150.160 through
150.171): cannabis event.
   (E)   Performance standards.
      (1)   (a)   Minimum lot size: none; and
         (b)   Minimum lot width: none.
      (2)   Additional requirements, including, but not limited to, parking,
signs, planned unit developments, and sewage disposal as regulated in the
appropriate sections of this chapter, as may be amended.
(Prior Code, § 504.040)
(Ord. passed 10-8-2003; Ord. 05-2024, passed 8-7-2024; Ord. 2024-09, passed 12-
4-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.021 RSF SINGLE- AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the RSF Single- and Two-Family Residential
District is to provide for low-density, single- and two-family residences and
directly related complimentary uses.
(Prior Code, § 505.010)
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in the RSF
Residential District:
      (1)   Single-family dwelling;
      (2)   Two-family dwelling;
      (3)   Home-based day care;
      (4)   Public parks and playgrounds;
      (5)   Foster home licensed by the state, serving six or less mentally or
physically challenged persons; and
      (6)   Public or semi-public recreational buildings and neighborhood or
community centers; public and private educational institutions limited to
elementary, junior high, and senior high schools; and religious institutions
such as churches, chapels, temples, and synagogues; provided, that:
         (a)   Side yards shall be double that required for the district; and
         (b)   No building shall be located within 30 feet of any lot line of
an abutting lot in an R District.
(Prior Code, § 505.020)
   (C)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in the RSF
Residential District:
      (1)   Private garages, parking spaces, and carports, whether attached or
detached, not to exceed 900 square feet;
      (2)   Recreational vehicles and equipment;
      (3)   Home occupations as regulated by §§
150.075 through
150.081;
      (4)   Swimming pools, tennis courts, decks, and other recreational
facilities which are operated for the enjoyment and convenience of the
residents of the principal use and their guests;
      (5)   The keeping of animals typically classified as animals that are
domesticated pets and buildings and structures for the keeping of such animals
and storage of related equipment;
      (6)   Fences;
      (7)   Tool houses, sheds, and similar non-commercial storage buildings,
not to exceed 900 square feet; and
      (8)   Uses determined by Planning Commission to be similar to those
listed in this division (C).
(Prior Code, § 505.030)
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following are conditional uses in the RSF
Residential District (requires a conditional use permit based upon procedures
set forth in and regulated by § 150.169(A)):
      (1)   Essential services; equipment and structures such as transformers,
unit substations, and equipment houses;
      (2)   Fire Station;
      (3)   Police Station;
      (4)   Residential planned unit developments per §§
150.060 through
150.063;
      (5)   Hospitals and clinics;
      (6)   Use of the basement as an independent resident or living unit
providing:
         (a)   The living unit shall meet or exceed the minimum performance
standards for floor area outlined in division (E) below and the ceiling height
is a minimum of seven feet; and
         (b)   The living unit contains adequate ventilation and fire escapes
as determined by the Fire Chief.
      (7)   Manufactured homes, provided, they meet the provisions of this
section and §§
150.130 through
150.145; and
      (8)   Bed and breakfasts.
(Prior Code, § 505.040)
   (E)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Minimum lot size.
         (a)   Six thousand square feet, single-family; and
         (b)   Eight thousand square feet, two-family.
      (2)   Minimum lot width.
         (a)   Sixty feet, single-family; and
         (b)   At building setback, 80 feet: two-family.
      (3)   Setbacks (measured from lot lines).
         (a)   Front yard. Twenty feet;
         (b)   Side yard.
            1.   Interior lots: six feet; and
            2.   Corner lots: Not less than 20 feet on the side yard abutting a
public street.
         (c)   Rear yard.
            1.   Principal building, 20% of the depth of the lot with a maximum
requirement of 25 feet; and
            2.   Accessory building, per §§
150.130 through
150.145.
      (4)   Maximum building height. Thirty-five feet or two and one-half
stories;
      (5)   Floor area requirements for single-family dwelling units. Single-
family dwelling units erected in the RSF District shall have a minimum floor
area of 700 square feet on the main floor. Two-family dwelling units erected in
the RSF District shall have a minimum floor area of 700 square feet (per unit).
For any dwelling unit, the principal dwelling area shall be equal to or greater
than the square footage of any accessory use;
      (6)   Additional requirements. Additional requirements, including, but
not limited to, parking signs, accessory structures, surface water management,
planned unit developments, and sewage disposal as regulated in the appropriate
sections of this chapter, as may be amended; and
      (7)   Lot width, lot size, and the like. The lot width, lot size, and
floor area requirements for all principal buildings may not be less than those
allowed in divisions (E)(1), (E)(2), and (E)(5) above, except if all of the
following apply:
         (a)   The requirements pertain directly to the proposed replacement of
the principal residential use structure on lots of record with widths of at
least 50 feet, but less than 60 feet on the date of adoption of this chapter;
         (b)   The lot of record is within a residential district;
         (c)   There is a demonstrated need and potential for continued
residential use;
         (d)   The building has an evident re-use as a principal structure in a
residential district;
         (e)   The structure has been and will continue to be maintained in a
manner that is compatible with adjacent residential uses and does not present a
hazard to public health, safety, and general welfare; and
         (f)   The proposed structure is in compliance with divisions (E)(3)
and (E)(4) above and this division (E)(7).
      (8)   Foundation for principal building on lot. All primary structures
shall have full footings and masonry, concrete, or treated wood foundations, as
defined in §
150.002, that will permanently anchor the primary structure. Foundations must
be completed and verified, as required in the site plan, prior to the
construction of any structure above the foundation.
      (9)   Exterior materials. The exterior material of a principal and any
accessory structure on a lot must be cohesive in color, make, and qualify to
the surrounding properties, as determined by the Building Inspector. No tarp
coverings shall be allowed on any primary or accessory structure.
(Prior Code, § 505.050)
(Ord. passed 10-8-2003; Ord 2024-03, passed 4-3-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.022 RMF MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the RMF Multiple-Family Residential District
is to provide for multiple-family residences and directly related complimentary
uses.
(Prior Code, § 506.010)
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in the RMF Multiple-
Family Residential District:
      (1)   Single-family dwelling;
      (2)   Two-family dwelling;
      (3)   Home-based day care;
      (4)   Multiple-family dwelling structures consisting of three or more
units;
      (5)   Public parks and playgrounds;
      (6)   Foster home licensed by the state serving mentally or physically
challenged persons; and
      (7)   Public or semi-public recreational buildings and neighborhood or
community centers; public and private educational institutes limited to
elementary, junior high, and senior high schools; and religious institutions
such as churches, chapels, temples, and synagogues; provided, that:
         (a)   Side yards shall be double that required for the district; and
         (b)   No building shall be located within 30 feet of any lot line of
an abutting lot in a R District; and
         (c)   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided on the site
or on lots directly abutting the site.
(Prior Code, § 506.020)
   (C)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in the RMF
Multiple-Family Residential District:
      (1)   Private garages, parking spaces, and carports, whether attached or
detached from the principal dwelling, shall not to exceed 900 square feet or
300 square feet per dwelling unit on the lot, which ever is greater;
      (2)   Recreational vehicles and equipment;
      (3)   Home occupations as regulated by §§
150.075 through
150.081;
      (4)   Swimming pools, tennis courts, and other recreational facilities
which are operated for the enjoyment and convenience of the residents of the
principal use and their guests;
      (5)   The keeping of animals typically classified as animals that are
domesticated pets and buildings and structures for the keeping of such animals
and storage of related equipment;
      (6)   Fences;
      (7)   Tool houses, sheds, and similar non-commercial storage buildings;
      (8)   Community laundry facilities, storm shelters, park offices, and
recreational buildings, provided; that such structures are of a permanent
nature; and
      (9)   Uses determined by the Planning Commission to be similar to those
listed in this division (C).
(Prior Code, § 506.030)
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following are conditional uses in the RMF
Multiple-Family Residential District (requires a conditional use permit based
upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §§ 150.160 through 150.171));
      (1)   Essential services; equipment and structures such as transformers,
unit substations, and equipment houses;
      (2)   Fire Station;
      (3)   Police Station;
      (4)   Residential planned unit developments per §§
150.060 through
150.063;
      (5)   Manufactured homes;
      (6)   Hospitals and clinics;
      (7)   Nursing home; and
      (8)   Use of the basement as an independent resident or living unit
providing:
         (a)   The living unit shall meet or exceed the minimum performance
standards for floor area outlined in this section and the ceiling height shall
be at least seven feet high; and
         (b)   The living unit contains adequate ventilation and fire escapes
as determined by the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 506.040)
   (E)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Minimum lot size. Eight thousand square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width. Eighty feet (at building setback);
      (3)   Setbacks (measured from lot lines).
         (a)   Front yard. Twenty feet;
         (b)   Side yard.
            1.   Interior lots. Eight feet; and
            2.   Corner lots. Not less than 20 feet on the side yard abutting a
public street.
         (c)   Rear yard.
            1.   Principal building. Twenty percent of lot depth or a maximum
of 25 feet; and
            2.   Accessory building. Per §
150.132(A).
      (4)   Maximum building height. Thirty five feet or two-and one-half
stories; and
      (5)   Floor area requirements for dwelling units.
         (a)   Living units. Living units in building containing more than two
units shall have the following minimum floor areas per unit:
            1.   Efficiency apartments. Four hundred square feet;
            2.   One bedroom apartments. Six hundred forty square feet;
            3.   Two bedroom apartments. Seven hundred twenty square feet; and
            4.   More than two bedroom apartments. One hundred twenty square
feet additional for each bedroom.
         (b)   Exceptions. The minimum areas specified above for multiple-unit
buildings shall not include areas occupied by stairs, hallways, entryways, and
utility rooms.
         (c)   For any dwelling unit, the principal dwelling area shall be
equal to or greater than the square footage of any accessory use.
      (6)   Foundation for principal building on lot. All primary structures
shall have full footings and masonry, concrete, or treated wood foundations, as
defined in §
150.002, that will permanently anchor the primary structure. Foundations must
be completed and verified, as required in the site plan, prior to the
construction of any structure above the foundation.
      (7)   Exterior materials. The exterior material of a principal and any
accessory structure on a lot must be cohesive in color, make, and qualify to
the surrounding properties, as determined by the Building Inspector. No tarp
coverings shall be allowed on any primary or accessory structure.
      (8)   Additional requirements. Additional requirements, including, but
not limited to, parking, signs, surface water management, planned unit
developments, mobile home parks, and sewage disposal as regulated in the
appropriate sections of this chapter, as may be amended.
(Prior Code, § 506.050)
(Ord. passed 10-8-2003; Ord. 2024-03, passed 4-3-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.023 MANUFACTURED HOUSING RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT/MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the RMHD Manufactured Housing Residential
District is to provide for a district for manufactured housing parks in a
specified area of the city. No manufactured home shall be admitted to any park
unless it can be demonstrated that it meets the requirements of all state,
county, and city codes governing the installation of plumbing, heating, and
electrical systems.
(Prior Code, § 507.010)
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in the RMHD
Residential District:
      (1)   Single-family: manufactured housing units when placed in
manufactured home parks as defined in division (F) below;
      (2)   Public open space; and
      (3)   Severe weather shelter.
(Prior Code, § 507.020)
   (C)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in the RMF
Manufactured Home District:
      (1)   Garages, parking spaces, and carports;
      (2)   Recreational vehicles and equipment;
      (3)   Home occupations as regulated by §§
150.075. through
150.081;
      (4)   Swimming pools, tennis courts, and other recreational facilities
which are operated for the enjoyment and convenience of the resident of the
principal use and guests;
      (5)   The keeping of animals typically classified as animals that are
domesticated pets and building and structures for keeping of such animals and
storage of related equipment;
      (6)   Fences; and
      (7)   Tool house, sheds, and similar non-commercial storage buildings.
Uses determined by Planning Commission to be similar to those listed in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 507.030)
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following are conditional uses in the RMHD
Residential District (requires a conditional use permit based upon procedures
set forth in and regulated by §
150.169(A)):
      (1)   All conditional uses as in the RSF District;
      (2)   Essential services; equipment and structures such as transformers,
unit substations, and equipment houses;
      (3)   Fire Station;
      (4)   Police Station;
      (5)   Residential planned unit developments per §§
150.060 through
150.063;
      (6)   Hospitals and clinics;
      (7)   Nursing homes;
      (8)   Use of the basement as an independent resident or living unit
providing: the living unit shall meet or exceed the minimum performance
standards for floor area outlined in §
150.022(A) and the ceiling height shall be at least seven feet high. The living
unit contains adequate ventilation and fire escapes as determined by the Fire
Chief; and
      (9)   Manufactured home parks; provided, that:
         (a)   The proposed manufactured home park is in compliance with
provisions of division (F) below; and
         (b)   The proposed manufactured home park is in compliance with all
other provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 507.040)
   (E)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Minimum district size. Three acres. No more than five manufactured
home sites may be provided per acre;
      (2)   Minimum length or width of district. Three hundred fifty feet;
      (3)   Building setbacks (measured from lot lines).
         (a)   Front yard. Twenty feet;
         (b)   Side yard.
            1.   Interior lots. Five feet; and
            2.   Corner lots. Not less than 20 feet on the side yard abutting a
public street.
         (c)   Rear yard.
            1.   Principal building. Ten percent of lot depth or a maximum of
ten feet; and
            2.   Accessory building. Per §
150.132.
         (d)   Exclusive use. Each manufactured home site shall contain at
least 4,000 square feet of land area for the exclusive use of the occupant and
shall be at least 40 feet wide.
      (4)   Maximum building height. Thirty-five feet or two and one-half
stories;
      (5)   Maximum site coverage. No structure or combination of structures
shall occupy more than 50% of the lot area; and
      (6)   Additional requirements. Additional requirements, including, but
not limited to, parking, signs, planned unit developments, and sewage disposal
as regulated in the appropriate sections of this chapter, as may be amended.
(Prior Code, § 507.050)
   (F)   Manufactured home park.
      (1)   Intent.
         (a)   The intent and purpose of this section is to assure quality
development equal to that found in other types of residential areas throughout
the city. Excellence of design, development, and maintenance is the desired
objective.
         (b)   No person shall attempt to develop or operate a manufactured
home park within the city without first obtaining a conditional use permit. The
requirements of a permit shall prevail over all other standards and
requirements notwithstanding the more restrictive sections of this chapter. A
permit for a manufactured home park may contain other requirements beyond those
mentioned in this section.
      (2)   Application.
         (a)   The applicant for a conditional use permit, in addition to other
requirements, shall include the name and address of the developer and a general
description of the construction schedule and construction cost.
         (b)   The application for a permit shall be accompanied by three
copies of full size plans and one 11-inch by 17-inch copy which indicate the
following:
            1.   Location and site of the manufactured home park;
            2.   Location, size, and character of all manufactured home lots,
manufactured home stands, storage areas, recreational areas, laundry drying
areas, central refuse disposal, roadways, parking spaces, and sites and all
setback dimensions;
            3.   Detailed landscaping plans and specifications;
            4.   Location and width of sidewalks;
            5.   Plans for sanitary sewage disposal, surface drainage, water
systems, electrical service, telephone service, and gas service. The park must
be suitably located for facilities including water supply, sewage disposal, and
fire protection;
            6.   Plans for an overhead street lighting system shall be
submitted for approval by the City Engineer;
            7.   The proposed method of disposing of garbage and refuse;
            8.   Location and size of all streets abutting the manufactured
home park, and all driveways from such streets to the park. Access to the
manufactured home park must be provided from a public street;
            9.   Specifications for all road construction either within the
park or directly related to park operation;
            10.   Such other information as may be required or requested by the
community; and
            11.   Plans and specifications for severe weather shelters.
      (3)   Performance standards for manufactured home parks.
         (a)   All land area shall be adequately drained, landscaped to control
dust, clean and free from refuse, garbage, rubbish, or debris.
         (b)   All manufactured homes shall be properly connected to a
municipal water supply and a municipal sanitary sewer system. All water and
sewer collection systems shall be constructed in accordance with plans and
specifications approved by the Planning Commission and City Council. Where a
public water supply is available to the manufactured home park or at the
boundary of the park, a connection to said public water supply shall be
provided for each manufactured home.
         (c)   Access to manufactured home parks shall be as approved by the
city.
         (d)   Each manufactured home park shall maintain off-street overload
parking lot for guests of occupants in the amount of one space for each three
sites and located within 300 feet of the unit to be served.
         (e)   All utilities, such as sewer, water, fuel, electric, telephone,
and television antenna lead-ins, shall be buried to a depth specified by the
City Engineer, and there shall be no overhead wires or support poles except
those essential for street or other lighting purposes.
         (f)   A properly landscaped area shall be adequately maintained around
each manufactured home park. All manufactured home parks adjacent to
industrial, commercial, or residential land uses shall be provided with
screening, such as fences or natural growth, along the property boundary lines
separating the park from such adjacent uses.
         (g)   1.   It shall be the duty of the operator of the manufactured
housing park to keep a record of all homeowners and occupants located within
the park. The park operator shall keep the record available for inspection at
all times by authorized city officials and other public officials whose duty
necessitates acquisition of the information contained in the record. The record
shall not be destroyed until a period of three years following the date of
departure of the registrant from the park.
            2.   The record shall contain:
               a.   The name and address of each unit occupant;
               b.   The name and address of the owner of each unit;
               c.   The make, model, year, and size of the unit; and
               d.   The date of arrival and departure of each unit.
         (h)   The operator of any manufactured housing park or a duly
authorized attendant and/or caretaker shall be responsible at all times for
keeping the park, its facilities and equipment in a clean, orderly, operable,
and sanitary condition. The attendant or caretaker shall be answerable, along
with said operator, for the violation of any provisions of these regulations to
which said operator is subject.
      (4)   Manufactured home park lot requirements.
         (a)   Each manufactured home site shall contain at least 4,000 square
feet of land area for the exclusive use of the occupant and shall be at least
40 feet wide.
         (b)   The area beneath a manufactured housing unit shall be enclosed
except that such enclosure must have access for inspection.
         (c)   Manufactured homes shall be placed upon lots so that there shall
be at least a 20-foot clearance between manufactured homes and 20 feet between
the front of the manufactured home and the front lot line and ten feet between
the rear of the manufactured home and the rear lot line.
         (d)   The area occupied by a manufactured home shall not exceed 50% of
the total area of a manufactured home site; land may be occupied by a
manufactured home, a vehicle, a building, a cabana, a carport, an awning,
storage closet, or cupboard or any structure.
         (e)   The yards shall be landscaped except for necessary driveway and
sidewalk needs which shall not exceed one-half the width of the site.
         (f)   Each manufactured home lot shall have off-street parking space
for at least two automobiles. Each space shall be nine feet by 15 feet minimum.
         (g)   The corners of each manufactured home lot shall be clearly
marked and each site shall be numbered.
         (h)   Each manufactured home lot shall be so designed that automobiles
may not be parked within five feet of the front or back of the manufactured
home.
         (i)   Every structure in the manufactured home park shall be developed
and maintained in a safe, approved and substantial manner. The exterior of
every such structure shall be kept in good repair. All of said structures must
be constructed to meet existing city codes.
         (j)   All trailers, structures, and outbuildings shall require a site
permit.
(Prior Code, § 507.060)
(Ord. passed 10-8-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.024 COM HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of the COM Highway Commercial Business District is to
provide for and limit the establishment of motor vehicle-oriented or dependent
high-intensity commercial and service activities and acceptable quasi-
industrial and wholesale enterprises that do not need an industrial setting but
which have considerable customer contact.
      (2)   Permitted uses take advantage of direct access to major highways,
frontage roads, or streets intersecting a highway in a manner other businesses
are not afforded.
(Prior Code, § 508.010)
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in the COM Highway
Commercial Business District:
      (1)   All permitted uses in the CBD;
      (2)   Antique stores;
      (3)   Apparel or clothing store;
      (4)   Auto accessory;
      (5)   Barber shops and beauty parlors;
      (6)   Bowling alleys;
      (7)   Clinics, medical and dental;
      (8)   Commercial recreational uses;
      (9)   Convenience stores, without motor fuel facilities;
      (10)   Dance halls;
      (11)   Department store;
      (12)   Essential services;
      (13)   Florists;
      (14)   Funeral homes and mortuaries;
      (15)   Gift shops;
      (16)   Governmental (including fire and police stations) and public
related utility buildings and structures;
      (17)   Grain elevators;
      (18)   Greenhouses, nurseries, and garden stores;
      (19)   Hospitals and medical buildings;
      (20)   Lumber yard, construction material sales, garden and landscaping
sales, and services (including produce);
      (21)   Major automotive repair;
      (22)   Motel;
      (23)   Motor vehicle, farm implement and recreation equipment sales,
uses, structures, and outdoor sales and storage accessory thereto;
      (24)   Office or professional building;
      (25)   Off-sale liquor establishment;
      (26)   On-sale liquor establishment;
      (27)   Private clubs or lodges serving food and beverages;
      (28)   Restaurants, not of the drive-in, convenience or drive-through
type;
      (29)   Video store;
      (30)   Wholesale businesses;
      (31)   Wholesale or warehouse operations;
      (32)   Mini-storage;
      (33)   Cannabis retail sale;
      (34)   Cannabis delivery;
      (35)   Cannabis testing facility;
      (36)   Cannabis transport;
      (37)   Lower-potency hemp edible retailer;
      (38)   Uses determined by Planning Commission to be similar to those
listed in this division (B); and
      (39)   Public or semi-public recreational buildings and neighborhood or
community centers; public or private educational institutes limited to
elementary, junior high, and senior high; religious institutions such as
churches, chapels, temples, and synagogues; provided, that:
         (a)   Side yards shall be doubled that required for this district; and
         (b)   No building shall be located within 30 feet of any lot line of
an abutting lot in the R District.
(Prior Code, § 508.020)
   (C)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in the COM
Highway Commercial Business District:
      (1)   Any incidental repair, processing, and storage necessary to conduct
a principal use;
      (2)   Fences;
      (3)   Landscaping; and
      (4)   Off-street parking facilities and off-street loading facilities as
regulated by §§
150.115 through
150.117.
(Prior Code, § 508.030)
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following are conditional uses in the COM
Highway Commercial Business District (requires a conditional use permit based
upon procedures set forth in and regulated by §
150.169(A)):
      (1)   Commercial planned unit developments as regulated by §§
150.060 through
150.063;
      (2)   Drive-in and convenience food establishments; provided, that:
         (a)   When abutting a residential use in a residential use district,
the property is adequately screened and landscaped;
         (b)   Parking areas shall be screened from the view of abutting
residential districts;
         (c)   Vehicular access points shall be limited, shall create minimal
conflict with through traffic movements, shall comply with all appropriate
sections of this chapter as may be amended;
         (d)   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise;
         (e)   The entire site other than that taken up by a building,
structure, or plantings shall be surfaced so as to control dust;
         (f)   The entire area shall have a drainage system;
         (g)   An internal site pedestrian circulation system shall be defined
and appropriate provisions made to protect such areas from encroachments by
parked cars or moving vehicles; and
         (h)   Parking, lighting, signage, and the like are in compliance with
appropriate sections of this chapter as may be amended.
      (3)   Commercial car washes (drive through, self-service and mechanical);
provided, that:
         (a)   When abutting a residential use in a residential use district,
the property is adequately screened and landscaped;
         (b)   Parking areas shall be screened from the view of abutting
residential districts;
         (c)   Vehicular access points shall be limited, shall create minimal
conflict with through traffic movements, and shall comply with all appropriate
sections of this chapter as may be amended;
         (d)   The entire site other than that taken up by a building,
structure, or plantings shall be surfaced so as to control dust subject to the
approval of the City Engineer;
         (e)   The entire area shall have a drainage system subject to the
approval of the City Engineer;
         (f)   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise; and
         (g)   Parking, lighting, signage, and the like are in compliance with
appropriate sections of this chapter as may be amended.
      (4)   Motor vehicle and truck fuel sales, auto repair, and service;
provided, that:
         (a)   Motor fuel facilities are installed in accordance with state and
city standards;
         (b)   Adequate space shall be provided to access gas pumps and allow
maneuverability around the pumps; underground fuel storage tanks are to be
positioned to allow adequate access by motor fuel transports and unloading
operations minimize conflict with circulation, access, and other activities on
the site;
         (c)   A protective canopy located over the pump island(s) may be an
accessory structure on the property, however, adequate visibility both on and
off site shall be maintained;
         (d)   An internal site pedestrian circulation system shall be defined
and appropriate provisions made to protect such areas from encroachments by
parked cars or moving vehicles;
         (e)   When abutting a residential use in a residential use district,
the property is adequately screened and landscaped;
         (f)   Parking areas shall be screened from the view of abutting
residential districts;
         (g)   Vehicular access points shall be limited, shall create minimal
conflict with through traffic movements, and shall comply with all appropriate
sections of this chapter as may be amended;
         (h)   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise;
         (i)   The entire site other than that taken up by a building,
structure, or plantings shall be surfaced so as to control dust;
         (j)   The entire area shall have a drainage system; and
         (k)   Parking, lighting, signage, and the like are in compliance with
appropriate sections of this chapter as may be amended.
      (5)   Convenience store with gasoline; provided, that:
         (a)   The sale of food items is in compliance with state and county
standards and subject to the approval of a Health Inspector who shall provide
specific written sanitary requirements for each proposed sale location;
         (b)   Motor fuel facilities are installed in accordance with state and
city standards;
         (c)   Adequate space shall be provided to access gas pumps and allow
maneuverability around the pumps. Underground fuel storage tanks are to be
positioned to allow adequate access by motor fuel transports and unloading
operations minimize conflict with circulation, access, and other activities on
the site;
         (d)   A protective canopy located over the pump island(s) may be an
accessory structure on the property, however, adequate visibility both on and
off site shall be maintained;
         (e)   An internal site pedestrian circulation system shall be defined
and appropriate provisions made to protect such areas from encroachments by
parked cars or moving vehicles;
         (f)   When abutting a residential use in a residential use district,
the property is adequately screened and landscaped;
         (g)   Parking areas shall be screened from the view of abutting
residential districts;
         (h)   Vehicular access points shall be limited, shall create minimal
conflict with through traffic movements, and shall comply with all appropriate
sections of this chapter as may be amended, and shall be subject to the
approval of the City Engineer;
         (i)   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise;
         (j)   The entire site other than that taken up by a building,
structure, or plantings shall be surfaced so as to control dust;
         (k)   The entire area shall have a drainage system; and
         (l)   Parking, lighting, signage, and the like are in compliance with
appropriate sections of this chapter as may be amended.
      (6)   Open or outdoor service, sale, and rental other than those
specified as a permitted use in this district; provided, that:
         (a)   When abutting a residential use in a residential use district,
the property is adequately screened and landscaped;
         (b)   The use does not take up parking space as required for
conformity to this chapter;
         (c)   The entire site other than that taken up by a building,
structure, or plantings shall be surfaced so as to control dust; and
         (d)   Parking, lighting, signage, and the like are in compliance with
appropriate sections of this chapter as may be amended.
      (7)   Multi-tenant commercial structures or strip malls;
      (8)   Off-site advertising signs;
      (9)   Industrial uses;
      (10)   Cannabis wholesale;
      (11)   Cannabis medical combination business; and
      (12)   Lower-potency hemp edible manufacturer.
(Prior Code, § 508.040)
   (E)   Interim uses. The following is a conditional use in the COM Highway
Business Districts (requires an interim use permit based upon procedures set
forth in and regulated by §
150.169(A): cannabis event.
   (F)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Minimum lot size. Ten thousand square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width. One hundred feet at building setback;
      (3)   Setbacks (measured from lot lines).
         (a)   Front yard. Thirty feet;
         (b)   Side yard. Twenty feet, unless abutting a residential district;
and
         (c)   Rear yard. Twenty feet, unless abutting a residential district,
then 35 feet.
      (4)   Maximum building height. Forty-five feet or three stories;
      (5)   Maximum site coverage. No structure or combination of structures
shall occupy more than 50% of the lot area; and
      (6)   Additional requirements. Additional requirements, including, but
not limited to, parking, surface water management, signs, planned unit
developments, and sewage disposal as regulated by appropriate sections of this
chapter, as may be amended.
(Prior Code, § 508.050)
(Ord. passed 10-8-2003; Ord. passed 12-7-2005; Ord. 05-2024, passed 8-7-2024;
Ord. 2024-09, passed 12-4-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.025 COM-R COMMERCIAL RESERVE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. Land areas designated on the zoning map as Commercial Reserve
(COM - R) are part of the Highway Commercial District (COM) and are intended to
provide space for future expansion of all permitted, accessory, and conditional
uses in the Highway Commercial District (COM). All provisions of the Highway
Commercial District shall apply except that existing residential uses within
the Commercial Reserve District shall comply with either the provisions of the
Low-Density Residential District (RSF) or the High-Density Residential District
(RMF) depending upon the existing use. Until conversion of a residential
structure into a permitted Highway Commercial District use is accomplished, the
residential structure and its land shall be treated as permitted uses but will
be regulated for zoning purposes by the (RSF) and (RMF) zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 509.010)
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in the COM-R Highway
Commercial Business District:
      (1)   All permitted uses in the CBD;
      (2)   Antique stores;
      (3)   Apparel or clothing store;
      (4)   Auto accessory store;
      (5)   Barber shops and beauty parlors;
      (6)   Bowling alleys;
      (7)   Clinics, medical and dental;
      (8)   Commercial recreational uses;
      (9)   Convenience stores, without motor fuel facilities;
      (10)   Dance halls;
      (11)   Department stores;
      (12)   Essential services;
      (13)   Florists;
      (14)   Funeral homes and mortuaries;
      (15)   Gift shops;
      (16)   Governmental (including fire and police stations) and public
related utility buildings and structures;
      (17)   Grain elevators;
      (18)   Greenhouses, nurseries, and garden stores;
      (19)   Hospitals and medical buildings;
      (20)   Lumber yard, construction material sales, garden and landscaping
sales, and services (including produce);
      (21)   Major automotive repair;
      (22)   Motel;
      (23)   Motor vehicle, farm implement and recreation equipment sales,
uses, structures, and outdoor sales, and storage accessory thereto;
      (24)   Office or professional building;
      (25)   Off-sale liquor establishment;
      (26)   On-sale liquor establishment;
      (27)   Private clubs or lodges serving food and beverages;
      (28)   Restaurants, not of the drive-in, convenience, or drive-through
type;
      (29)   Video store;
      (30)   Wholesale businesses;
      (31)   Wholesale or warehouse operations;
      (32)   Mini-storage;
      (33)   Cannabis retail sales;
      (34)   Cannabis delivery;
      (35)   Cannabis testing facility;
      (36)   Cannabis transport;
      (37)   Lower-potency hemp edible retailer; and
      (38)   Uses determined by Planning Commission to be similar to those
listed in this division (B).
(Prior Code, § 509.020)
   (C)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in the COM-
R Commercial Reserve District:
      (1)   Any incidental repair, processing and storage necessary to conduct
a principal use;
      (2)   Fences;
      (3)   Landscaping; and
      (4)   Off-street parking facilities and off-street loading facilities as
regulated by §§
150.115 through
150.117.
(Prior Code, § 509.030)
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following are conditional uses in the COM-
R Commercial Reserve District (requires a conditional use permit based upon
procedures set forth in and regulated by §
150.169(A)):
      (1)   Commercial planned unit developments as regulated by §§
150.060 through
150.063;
      (2)   Drive-in and convenience food establishments; provided, that:
         (a)   When abutting a residential use in a residential use district,
the property is adequately screened and landscaped;
         (b)   Parking areas shall be screened from the view of abutting
residential districts;
         (c)   Vehicular access points shall be limited, shall create minimal
conflict with through traffic movements, and shall comply with all appropriate
sections of this chapter as may be amended;
         (d)   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise;
         (e)   The entire site other than that taken up by a building,
structure, or plantings shall be surfaced so as to control dust;
         (f)   The entire area shall have a drainage system;
         (g)   An internal site pedestrian circulation system shall be defined
and appropriate provisions made to protect such areas from encroachments by
parked cars or moving vehicles;
         (h)   Parking, lighting, signage, and the like are in compliance with
appropriate sections of this chapter as may be amended.
      (3)   Commercial car washes (drive through, self-service, and
mechanical); provided, that:
         (a)   When abutting a residential use in a residential use district,
the property is adequately screened and landscaped;
         (b)   Parking areas shall be screened from the view of abutting
residential districts;
         (c)   Vehicular access points shall be limited, shall create minimal
conflict with through
traffic movements, and shall comply with all appropriate sections of this
chapter as may be amended;
         (d)   The entire site other than that taken up by a building,
structure, or plantings shall be surfaced so as to control dust subject to the
approval of the City Engineer;
         (e)   The entire area shall have a drainage system subject to the
approval of the City Engineer;
         (f)   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise; and
         (g)   Parking, lighting, signage, and the like are in compliance with
appropriate sections of this chapter as may be amended.
      (4)   Motor vehicle and truck fuel sales, auto repair, and service;
provided, that:
         (a)   Motor fuel facilities are installed in accordance with state and
city standards;
         (b)   Adequate space shall be provided to access gas pumps and allow
maneuverability around the pumps. Underground fuel storage tanks are to be
positioned to allow adequate access by motor fuel transports and unloading
operations minimize conflict with circulation, access, and other activities on
the site;
         (c)   A protective canopy located over the pump island(s) may be an
accessory structure on the property, however, adequate visibility both on and
off site shall be maintained;
         (d)   An internal site pedestrian circulation system shall be defined
and appropriate provisions made to protect such areas from encroachments by
parked cars or moving vehicles;
         (e)   When abutting a residential use in a residential use district,
the property is adequately screened and landscaped;
         (f)   Parking areas shall be screened from the view of abutting
residential districts;
         (g)   Vehicular access points shall be limited, shall create minimal
conflict with through traffic movements, and shall comply with all appropriate
sections of this chapter as may be amended;
         (h)   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise;
         (i)   The entire site other than that taken up by a building,
structure, or plantings shall be surfaced so as to control dust;
         (j)   The entire area shall have a drainage system; and
         (k)   Parking, lighting, signage, and the like are in compliance with
appropriate sections of this chapter as may be amended.
      (5)   Convenience stores with gasoline; provided, that:
         (a)   The sale of food items is in compliance with state and county
standards and subject to the approval of a Health Inspector who shall provide
specific written sanitary requirements for each proposed sale location;
         (b)   Motor fuel facilities are installed in accordance with state and
city standards;
         (c)   Adequate space shall be provided to access gas pumps and allow
maneuverability around the pumps. Underground fuel storage tanks are to be
positioned to allow adequate access by motor fuel transports and unloading
operations minimize conflict with circulation, access, and other activities on
the site;
         (d)   A protective canopy located over the pump island(s) may be an
accessory structure on the property however adequate visibility both on and off
site shall be maintained;
         (e)   An internal site pedestrian circulation system shall be defined
and appropriate provisions made to protect such areas from encroachments by
parked cars or moving vehicles;
         (f)   When abutting a residential use in a residential use district,
the property is adequately screened and landscaped;
         (g)   Parking areas shall be screened from the view of abutting
residential districts;
         (h)   Vehicular access points shall be limited, shall create minimal
conflict with through traffic movements, shall comply with all appropriate
sections of this chapter as may be amended, and shall be subject to the
approval of the City Engineer;
         (i)   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise;
         (j)   The entire site other than that taken up by a building,
structure, or plantings shall be surfaced so as to control dust;
         (k)   The entire area shall have a drainage system; and
         (l)   Parking, lighting, signage, and the like are in compliance with
appropriate sections of this chapter as may be amended.
      (6)   Open or outdoor service, sale, and rental other than those
specified as a permitted use in this district; provided, that:
         (a)   When abutting a residential use in a residential use district,
the property is adequately screened and landscaped;
         (b)   The use does not take up parking space as required for
conformity to this chapter;
         (c)   The entire site other than that taken up by a building,
structure or plantings shall be surfaced so as to control dust; and
         (d)   Parking, lighting, signage, and the like are in compliance with
appropriate sections of this chapter as may be amended.
      (7)   Off-site advertising signs;
      (8)   Industrial uses;
      (9)   Cannabis wholesale;
      (10)   Cannabis medical combination business; and
      (11)   Lower-potency hemp edible manufacturer.
(Prior Code, § 509.040)
   (E)   Interim uses. The following is an interim use in the COM-R Highway
Commercial Business District and requires an interim use permit based upon
procedures set forth in and regulated by §
150.169(A): cannabis event.
   (F)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Minimum lot size. Ten thousand square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width. One hundred feet at building setback;
      (3)   Setbacks (measured from lot lines).
         (a)   Front yard. Twenty feet;
         (b)   Side yard. Ten feet, unless abutting a residential district;
then 35 feet; and
         (c)   Rear yard. Ten feet, unless abutting a residential district,
then 35 feet.
      (4)   Maximum building height. Forty-five feet or three stories;
      (5)   Minimum site coverage. No structure or combination of structures
shall occupy more than 50% of the lot area; and
      (6)   Additional requirements. Additional requirements, including, but
not limited to, parking, signs, planned unit developments, and sewage disposal
as regulated by appropriate sections of this chapter, as may be amended.
(Prior Code, § 509.050)
(Ord. passed 10-8-2003; Ord. 2016-4, passed 8-31-2016; Ord. 05-2024, passed 8-
7-2024; Ord. 2024-09, passed 12-4-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.026 CBD CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The CBD Central Business District has been established to
encourage the continuation of a viable downtown by allowing prime retail sales
and service uses, office, entertainment facilities, and public and semi-public
uses. The purpose of this district is to provide specifically for regulation of
the high intensity commercial uses located within the core of the city.
(Prior Code, § 510.010)
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   The following are permitted uses in the CBD Central Business
District:
         (a)   Barber shops and beauty parlors;
         (b)   Convenience grocery stores\with motor fuel facilities;
         (c)   Essential services;
         (d)   Funeral homes and mortuaries;
         (e)   Governmental and public related utility buildings and
structures;
         (f)   Laundromat/dry cleaning;
         (g)   Municipal buildings/offices, libraries, postal service offices;
         (h)   Professional and commercial leased offices;
         (i)   Cannabis retail sales;
         (j)   Cannabis delivery service;
         (k)   Cannabis testing facility;
         (l)   Cannabis transport; and
         (m)   Lower-potency hemp edible retailer.
      (2)   Other retail and service uses, like the following examples:
         (a)   Antique shops;
         (b)   Apparel or clothing stores, tailor shops;
         (c)   Appliance stores;
         (d)   Art gallery or arts supply store;
         (e)   Auto accessory stores;
         (f)   Bakeries;
         (g)   Bank or saving institutions;
         (h)   Bars;
         (i)   Bicycle sales and repair;
         (j)   Book stores and newsstands;
         (k)   Bus terminal;
         (l)   Candy shop;
         (m)   Dance hall, nightclub, or tavern;
         (n)   Department store;
         (o)   Drug stores;
         (p)   Florists;
         (q)   Furniture stores;
         (r)   Gift stores, novelty, or souvenir shops;
         (s)   Grocery stores;
         (t)   Hardware stores;
         (u)   Health club and gymnasium;
         (v)   Interior decorating stores;
         (w)   Jewelry stores;
         (x)   Luggage and leather goods;
         (y)   Motels and hotels;
         (z)   Music studio;
         (aa)   Newspaper and magazine sales;
         (bb)   Novelty stores;
         (cc)   Optical stores;
         (dd)   Off-site advertising sign;
         (ee)   Pet stores;
         (ff)   Photography studios;
         (gg)   Pottery stores;
         (hh)   Printing shops;
         (ii)   Private clubs or lodges serving food and beverages;
         (jj)   Repair shops;
         (kk)   Restaurants, not of the drive-in, convenience, or drive-through
type;
         (ll)   Shoe and footwear sales and repair;
         (mm)   Specialty stores;
         (nn)   Sporting goods stores;
         (oo)   Theatres;
         (pp)   Travel bureau;
         (qq)   Variety stores; and
         (rr)   Uses determined by Planning Commission to be similar to those
listed in this division (B).
(Prior Code, § 510.020)
   (C)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in the CBD
Central Business District:
      (1)   Commercial or business buildings and structures for a use accessory
to the principal use; and
      (2)   Off-street parking facilities (not including semi-trucks) and off-
street loading facilities as regulated by §§
150.115 through
150.117.
(Prior Code, § 510.030)
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following are conditional uses in the CBD
Central Business District (requires a conditional use permit based upon
procedures set forth in and regulated by §
150.169(A)):
         (a)   Commercial planned unit developments as regulated by §§
150.060 through
150.063;
         (b)   Buildings combining residential and nonresidential uses allowed
in this district; provided, that:
            1.   Residential uses shall be confined to the second or third
floor of the building, or the rear portion of the main level if confined to
less than 60% of the floor area; or
            2.   The residential and nonresidential uses shall not conflict in
any manner.
         (c)   Automotive repair shops;
         (d)   Restaurants with drive-through (convenience variety);
         (e)   Cannabis wholesale;
         (f)   Cannabis medical combination business; and
         (g)   Lower-potency hemp edible manufacturer.
(Prior Code, § 510.040)
   (E)   Interim uses. The following is an interim use in the CBD Central
Business District and requires an interim use permit based upon procedures set
forth in and regulated by §
150.169(A): cannabis event.
   (F)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Minimum lot size. No minimum lot size for permitted or accessory
uses. Lot size may be established by Planning Commission for conditional use;
      (2)   Minimum lot width. None;
      (3)   Setbacks (measured from lot lines).
         (a)   Front yard. None;
         (b)   Side yard. None, 20 feet if abutting a residential district; and
         (c)   Rear yard. None, 20 feet if abutting a residential district.
      (4)   Maximum building height. Forty-five feet or three stories;
      (5)   Maximum site coverage. No maximum; and
      (6)   Additional requirements. Additional requirements, including, but
not limited to, parking, surface water drainage, signs, planned unit
developments, and sewage disposal as regulated by appropriate sections of this
chapter, as may be amended.
(Prior Code, § 510.050)
(Ord. passed 10-8-2003; Ord. 05-2024, passed 8-7-2024; Ord. 2024-09, passed 12-
4-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.027 IND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Industrial District is to establish,
preserve, and regulate areas in the city for manufacturing, processing,
assembly and fabrication, storage, and warehousing and other industrial and
related uses. These uses shall maintain a high level of performance and
appearance, including open spaces and landscaping and encouraging development
that is compatible with abutting districts.
(Prior Code, § 511.010)
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses in the IND Industrial
District:
      (1)   Manufacturing or assembly of a wide variety of products;
      (2)   Bottling establishments;
      (3)   Dry cleaning and dying establishments;
      (4)   Manufacturing of crates, boxes, baskets, furniture, veneer,
cabinets, and similar wood items;
      (5)   Manufacturing of plastic, fiberglass, and metal products;
      (6)   Building materials sales and storage, lumber yards;
      (7)   Warehousing of non-explosive material or equipment;
      (8)   Offices related to industrial uses;
      (9)   Machine shops, lumber yards, and the like;
      (10)   Major automotive repair;
      (11)   Appliance assembly and warehousing, freight terminals, concrete
products plants, building materials production, clothing or apparel
manufacturing, and similar uses;
      (12)   Highway maintenance shops and yards;
      (13)   Grain elevators;
      (14)   Uses determined by Planning Commission to be similar in nature to
those listed in this division (B);
      (15)   Mini-storage;
      (16)   Government guidelines and public facilities;
      (17)   Cannabis cultivation;
      (18)   Cannabis manufacturing;
      (19)   Cannabis retail sales;
      (20)   Cannabis delivery service;
      (21)   Cannabis testing facility;
      (22)   Cannabis transport;
      (23)   Cannabis wholesale;
      (24)   Lower-potency hemp edible retailer; and
      (25)   Adult establishments as defined in §
112.02.
(Prior Code, § 511.020)
   (C)   Location requirements for adult establishments. Adult establishments
are permitted uses in the Industrial District, subject to the following
location requirements.
      (1)   An adult establishment shall not be located within 1,000 feet of an
existing adult establishment.
      (2)   An adult establishment shall not be located within 500 feet of any
PUD district, residential district, or residential property.
      (3)   An adult establishment shall not be located within 1,000 feet of an
existing school or place of worship.
      (4)   An adult establishment shall not be located within 500 feet of any
property being used as a park.
      (5)   For purposes of this chapter, the 500- and 1,000-foot distances
shall be the shortest horizontal measurement from the property line of any
residential district, residential property, PUD property, school, place of
worship, park, or an adult establishment to the property line where the
proposed adult establishment is to be located.
(Prior Code, § 511.025)
   (D)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in the IND
Industrial District:
      (1)   Off-street parking as defined in §§
150.115 through
150.117; and
      (2)   Any use customarily incidental to the uses permitted in division
(B) above and division (E) below.
(Prior Code, § 511.030)
   (E)   Conditional uses. The following are conditional uses in the IND
Industrial District (requires a conditional use permit based upon procedures
set forth in and regulated by §
150.169(A)):
      (1)   Open or outdoor service, sale, and rental as a principal or
accessory use; provided, that:
         (a)   Outside services, sales, and equipment rentals related to the
principal use;
         (b)   Outside sates areas are fenced and screened from view of
neighboring residential uses or an abutting residential district; and
         (c)   Sales area is grassed or surfaced to control dust.
      (2)   Accessory, enclosed retail, rental service, or processing,
manufacturing activity other than that allowed as a permitted use or
conditional use within this section; provided, that:
         (a)   Such use is allowed as a permitted use in a business district;
         (b)   Adequate off-street parking and off-street loading is provided
in compliance with §§
150.115 through
150.117; and
         (c)   All signage is in compliance with §§
150.095 through
150.100.
      (3)   Government buildings and public facilities;
      (4)   Commercial/industrial planned unit developments;
      (5)   Crude oil, gasoline, or other liquid storage tanks, bulk fuel
sales, and storage;
      (6)   Fertilizer and chemical sales and storage;
      (7)   Antennas as defined in §
150.144;
      (8)   Any manufacturing, processing, cleaning, storage, testing of
materials, or goods similar to those listed in this division (E) which conform
with the performance standards of this section;
      (9)   Medical cannabis combination business; and
      (10)   Lower-potency hemp edible manufacturer.
(Prior Code, § 511.040)
   (F)   Interim uses. The following is an interim use in the IND Industrial
District (requires an interim use permit based upon procedures set forth in and
regulated by §
150.169(A)): cannabis event.
   (G)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Minimum lot size. Ten thousand square feet;
      (2)   Setbacks (measured from lot lines).
         (a)   Front yard. Twenty feet;
         (b)   Side yard. Five feet; and
         (c)   Rear yard. Five feet.
      (3)   Minimum lot width. One hundred feet at building setback;
      (4)   Maximum building height. Forty-five feet or three stories;
      (5)   Maximum site coverage by buildings. Seventy percent of the total
lot area; and
      (6)   Additional requirements. Additional requirements, including, but
not limited to, parking, stormwater drainage, signs, planned unit developments,
and sewage disposal are listed in appropriate sections of this chapter as may
be amended.
(Prior Code, § 511.050)
(Ord. passed 10-8-2003; Ord. passed 12-7-2005; Ord. 05-2024, passed 8-7-2024;
Ord. 2024-09, passed 12- 4-2024)
SURFACE WATER MANAGEMENT
§ 150.040 FINDINGS.
   The city hereby finds that uncontrolled and inadequately planned use of
wetlands, woodlands, natural habitat areas, areas subject to soil erosion, and
areas containing restrictive soils adversely affects the public health, safety,
and general welfare by impacting water quality and contributing to other
environmental problems, creating nuisances, impairing other beneficial uses of
environmental resources and hindering the ability of the city to provide
adequate water, sewage, flood control, and other community services. In
addition, extraordinary public expenditures may be required for the protection
of persons and property in such areas and in areas which may be affected by
unplanned land usage.
(Prior Code, § 513.010) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.041 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this section is to promote, preserve, and enhance the natural
resources within the city and protect them from adverse effects occasioned by
poorly sited development or incompatible activities by regulating land
disturbing or development activities that would have an adverse and potentially
irreversible impact on water quality and unique and fragile environmentally
sensitive land; by minimizing conflicts and encouraging compatibility between
land disturbing and development activities and water quality and
environmentally sensitive lands; and by requiring detailed review standards and
procedures for land disturbing or development activities proposed for such
areas, thereby achieving a balance between urban growth and development and
protection of water quality and natural areas.
(Prior Code, § 513.020) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.042 SCOPE AND EFFECT.
   (A)   Applicability. Every applicant for subdivision approval or a
commercial permit, industrial permit, or multiple-family residential permit to
allow land disturbing activities must submit a surface (stormwater) water
management plan to the city. No plat approval or permit to all land disturbing
activities, including, but not limited to, mining, excavation, filling and
grading shall be issued until approval of the surface (stormwater) water
management plan or a waiver of the approval requirement has been obtained in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter. The provisions of this section
apply to all land, public or private, located within the city.
   (B)   Exemptions. The provisions of this section do not apply to:
      (1)   Any part of a single-family residential subdivision if a plat for
the subdivision has been approved by the city on or before the effective date
of this chapter;
      (2)   Any land disturbing activity for which plans have been approved by
the watershed management organization within six months prior to the effective
date of this chapter;
      (3)   A lot for which a zoning permit has been approved on or before the
effective date of this chapter;
      (4)   Installation of fence, sign, telephone, and electric poles and
other kinds of posts or poles;
      (5)   Emergency work to protect life, limb, or property; or
      (6)   Administrative subdivisions.
   (C)   Waiver.
      (1)   The city upon, recommendation of the Planning Commission, may waive
any requirement of this section upon making a finding that compliance with the
requirement will involve an unnecessary hardship and the waiver of such
requirement will not adversely affect the standards and requirements set forth
in this section.
      (2)   The city may require as a condition of the waiver, such dedication
or construction, or agreement to dedicate or construct as may be necessary to
adequately meet said standards and requirements.
(Prior Code, § 513.030) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.043 SURFACE WATER (STORMWATER) MANAGEMENT PLAN APPROVAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   (a)   A written application for surface (stormwater) water
management plan approval, along with the proposed surface (stormwater) water
management plan, shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator and shall include
a statement indicating the grounds upon which the approval is requested, that
the proposed use is permitted by right or as an exception in the underlying
zoning district, and adequate evidence showing that the proposed use will
conform to the standards set forth in this section.
         (b)   Prior to applying for approval of a surface (stormwater) water
management plan, an applicant may have the surface (stormwater) water
management plans reviewed by the city.
      (2)   Two sets of clearly legible blue or black lined copies of drawings
and required information shall be submitted to the city and shall be
accompanied by a receipt evidencing payment of fees (if applicable) for
processing and approval as set forth in §
150.044. Drawings shall be prepared to scale appropriate to the site of the
project and suitable for the review to be performed. At a minimum, the scale
shall be one inch equals 100 feet.
   (B)   Surface water (stormwater) management plan. At a minimum, the surface
(stormwater) water management plan shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Existing site map. A map of existing site conditions showing the
site and immediately adjacent areas, including:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant; a legal description of
the property directly associated with the request; north point; date; scale of
drawing; and number of sheets;
         (b)   Location of the tract by an insert map at a scale sufficient to
clearly identify the location of the property and giving such information as
the names and numbers of adjoining roads, railroads, utilities, subdivisions,
towns, and districts or other landmarks; and
         (c)   Location and dimensions of existing surface (stormwater) water
drainage systems and natural drainage patterns on and immediately adjacent to
the site delineating in which direction (storm) water is conveyed from the
site, identifying the receiving stream, river, public water, or wetland, and
setting forth those areas of the unaltered site where surface (stormwater)
water collects.
      (2)   Site construction plan. A site construction plan including:
         (a)   Schedule of anticipated starting and completion date of each
land disturbing activity; and
         (b)   Provisions for maintenance of the construction site erosion
control measures during construction.
(Prior Code, § 513.040) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.044 PLAN REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Process. Surface water (stormwater) management plans meeting the
requirements of §
150.043 shall be submitted by the Zoning Administrator to the City Engineer or
his or her designee for review in accordance with the standards of §
150.045. The Planning Commission shall recommend approval, recommend approval
with conditions, or recommend denial of the surface (stormwater) water
management plan to the City Council. Following Planning Commission action, the
surface (stormwater) water management plan shall be submitted to the City
Council at its next available meeting. City Council action on the surface
(stormwater) water management plan must be accomplished within 60 days
following the date the application for approval is filed with the Zoning
Administrator.
   (B)   Duration. Approval of a plan submitted under the provisions of this
section shall expire one year after the date of approval unless construction
has commenced in accordance with the plan, however, if prior to the expiration
of the approval the applicant makes a written request to the Zoning
Administrator for an extension of time to commence construction setting forth
the reasons for the requested extension, the city may grant one extension of
not greater than one single year. Receipt of any request for an extension shall
be acknowledged by the Zoning Administrator within 15 days. The Zoning
Administrator, after consulting with the City Engineer shall make a decision on
the extension within 30 days of receipt. Any plan may be revised in the same
manner as originally approved.
   (C)   Conditions. A surface water (stormwater) management plan may be
approved subject to compliance with conditions reasonable and necessary to
ensure that the requirements contained in this section are met. Such conditions
may, among other matters, limit the size, kind, or character of the proposed
development; require the construction of structures, drainage facilities,
storage basins, and other facilities; require replacement of vegetation;
establish required monitoring procedures; stage the work over time; require
alternation of the site design to ensure buffering; and require the conveyance
to the city or other public entity of certain lands or interests therein.
   (D)   Fees. All applications for surface (stormwater) water management plan
approval shall be accompanied by a processing and approval fee, if applicable,
and as specified by the City Council through resolution.
(Prior Code, § 513.050) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.045 APPROVAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Approval standards. No surface (stormwater) water management plan
which fails to meet the standards contained in this section shall be approved
by the City Council.
   (B)   Site dewatering. Water pumped from the site shall be treated by
temporary sedimentation basins, grit chambers, sand filters, up flow chambers,
hydro-cyclones, swirl concentrators, or other appropriate controls as
appropriate. Water may not be discharged in a manner that causes erosion or
flooding of the site or receiving channels or a wetland.
   (C)   Waste and material disposal. All waste and unused building materials,
including, but not limited to, garbage, cleaning wastes, debris, wastewater,
toxic materials, or hazardous materials, shall be properly disposed of off-site
and not allowed to be carried by runoff into a receiving channel or surface
(stormwater) sewer system.
   (D)   Tracking. Each site shall prevent sediment from being tracked onto
public or private roadways.
   (E)   Drain inlet protection. All surface (stormwater) drain inlets shall be
protected during construction until control measures are in place with a straw
bale, silt fence, or equivalent barrier meeting accepted design criteria,
standards, and specifications contained in the State Pollution Control Agency
publication entitled Protecting Water Quality in Urban Areas.
   (F)   Site erosion control. The following criteria apply only to
construction activities that result in runoff leaving the site.
      (1)   Channeled runoff from adjacent areas passing through the site shall
be diverted around disturbed areas, if practical. Diverted runoff shall be
conveyed in a manner that will not erode the conveyance and receiving channels.
      (2)   All activities on the site shall be conducted in a logical sequence
to minimize the area of bare soil exposed at any one time.
   (G)   Surface water (stormwater) management criteria for permanent
facilities.
      (1)   An applicant shall install or construct, on or for the proposed
land disturbing or development activity, all surface (stormwater) water
management facilities necessary to manage increased runoff so that the two-
year, ten-year, and 100-year storm peak discharge rates existing before the
proposed development shall not be increased, and accelerated channel erosion
will not occur as a result of the proposed land disturbing or development
activity. An applicant may also make an in-kind or monetary contribution to the
development and maintenance of community surface (stormwater) water management
facilities designed to serve multiple land disturbing and development
activities undertaken by one or more persons, including the applicant.
      (2)   The applicant shall give consideration to reducing the need for
surface (stormwater) water management facilities by incorporating the use of
natural topography and land cover such as wetlands, ponds, natural swales, and
depressions as they exist before development.
      (3)   The following surface (stormwater) water management practices shall
be investigated in developing a surface (stormwater) water management plan:
         (a)   Natural infiltration of precipitation on-site, if located
outside of areas considered sensitive to groundwater contamination;
         (b)   Flow attenuation by use of open vegetated swales and natural
depressions;
         (c)   Surface (stormwater) water retention facilities; and
         (d)   Surface (stormwater) water detention facilities.
      (4)   A combination of successive practices may be used to achieve the
applicable minimum control requirements specified in §
150.040. The applicant shall provide justification for the method selected.
   (H)   Design standards. Surface (stormwater) water detention facilities
constructed in the city shall be designed according to standards approved by
the City Engineer.
   (I)   Wetlands. Rules and regulations applicable to wetlands and set forth
by the State Wetland Conservation Act, Ch. 354, 1991 Minn. Laws 2794 and
Federal Clean Water Act, being 33 USC §§ 1251 et seq. are hereby incorporated.
   (J)   Watershed management and groundwater management plans. Surface
(stormwater) water management plans shall be consistent with adopted watershed
management plans and groundwater management plans prepared in accordance with
M.S. §§ 103B.231 and 103B.255, as they may be amended from time to time,
respectively, and as approved by the State Board of Water and Soil Resources in
accordance with state law.
   (K)   Easements. If a surface (stormwater) water management plan involves
direction of some or all runoff off of the site, it shall be the responsibility
of the applicant to obtain from adjacent property owners any necessary
easements or other property interests concerning flowage of water.
(Prior Code, § 513.060) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
§ 150.060 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to make provision for planned unit
projects within the city larger tracts of land under single or unified
ownership, developed with public sewer. Such residential subdivision unit
projects allow modification of individual lot area and width requirements to
allow cluster development and multiple dwellings. Residential subdivision
projects shall be developed in accordance with an overall design and an
integrated development plan and otherwise in accordance with the city
subdivision regulations. Such projects shall be consistent with the intent and
purpose of this subchapter and shall not adversely effect the property adjacent
to the land included in the project.
(Prior Code, § 514.010) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.061 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No more than 50% of the land shall be used for buildings, tennis
courts, swimming pools, roads, and other impervious surfaces.
   (B)   Projects shall be so designed as to provide adequate sewer and water
facilities and public access; lots should be of adequate size to provide
emergency and/or service vehicle public access. Buildings shall be spaced to
allow emergency vehicles freedom to maneuver between buildings.
   (C)   An application for PUD must be filed by the landowner or jointly by
all landowners of the property included in a project. The application and all
submissions must be directed to the development of the property as a unified
whole. In the case of multiple ownerships, the approved final plan shall be
binding on all owners.
   (D)   Each project must comply with Department of Natural Resources
guidelines for planned unit developments in shore land areas where applicable.
(Prior Code, § 514.020) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.062 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Upon filing an application for PUD, the applicant of the proposed PUD
is encouraged to meet with the Zoning Administrator and Planning Commission in
an informal review session to provide an opportunity to gather information and
obtain guidance as to the general suitability of the proposal for the area in
which it is proposed and its conformity to the provisions of this section. The
informal review session is intended to prevent the applicant from incurring
substantial expense in the preparation of plans, surveys and other data.
   (B)   (1)   The proponents of a planned unit development shall submit a
preliminary subdivision plat and a site plan according to
Ch. 151, along with an application for a conditional use permit.
      (2)   The site plan shall include the following:
         (a)   A written statement generally describing the proposed PUD and
the market which it is intended to serve and how the proposed PUD is to be
designed, arranged, and operated. When requested and/or when appropriate, the
number of residential dwelling units and expected population; the gross square
footage of commercial and industrial floor space by type of activity (i.e.,
drug store, supermarket, salon);
         (b)   The proposed name of the development;
         (c)   Existing adjacent development;
         (d)   Proposed public or community sanitary sewer and water systems,
including size, type, and capacity;
         (e)   Proposed roadway, private or public, type, and capacity of
surfacing;
         (f)   Proposed site development and development schedule;
         (g)   Size and location of proposed and existing buildings on the
subject site;
         (h)   Proposed landscaping;
         (i)   Site and lot dimensions;
         (j)   Allocation and disposition of park and open space;
         (k)   Type of use and density of each building;
         (l)   Indication of public and private roadways. Roadways that are
private in PUDs shall remain private and are not subject to public maintenance;
         (m)   Location, type, and sizing of signage;
         (n)   A preliminary plat prepared in accordance with
Ch. 151;
         (o)   The city may excuse an applicant from submitting any specific
item of information or document required which it finds to be unnecessary to
the consideration of the specific proposal for PUD approval; and
         (p)   The city may require the submission of any additional
information or documentation which it may find necessary or appropriate to full
consideration of the proposed PUD or any aspect thereof.
   (C)   Within 30 days of receiving the preliminary subdivision plat, site
plan, and application for a conditional use permit from the proponents of a
planned unit development, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing
on said proposal. Legal notice of said hearing shall consist of the property’s
legal description, a description of the request, and a general description of
the property’s location. Said legal notice shall be published in the city’s
official newspaper a minimum of ten days prior to the hearing and written
notification of said hearing shall be mailed at least ten days prior to the
hearing to all land owners of record within 350 feet of the boundary of the
property in question. Failure of property owner to receive said notice shall
not invalidate any such proceedings as set forth within this section.
   (D)   Within 30 days of the public hearing, or such further time as may be
agreed to by the applicant, the Planning Commission shall make a finding of
fact and submit its recommendation to the City Council. If the Planning
Commission fails to act within the time specified herein, it shall be deemed to
have recommended the plan for approval.
   (E)   Upon receiving the recommendation of the Planning Commission, or
within 60 days after the application submitted for the preliminary plat was
considered complete, the City Council shall consider the Planning Commission’s
recommendation. Such recommendations shall be entered in and made part of the
permanent written record of the City Council meeting.
   (F)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission, the City Council shall either:
      (1)   Approve or disapprove the request as recommended by the Planning
Commission;
      (2)   Approve or disapprove the recommendation of the Planning Commission
with modifications, alterations, or differing conditions. Such modifications,
alterations, or differing conditions shall be in writing and made part of the
Council’s records; or
      (3)   Refer the recommendation back to the Planning Commission for future
consideration if the applicant is willing to grant an extension to the review
period. This procedure shall be followed only one time on a singular action.
   (G)   If the conditional use permit for the preliminary plat and site plan
is approved, the preliminary plat and site plan shall be attached to and become
a part of the conditional use permit. Any modification to the preliminary plat
or site plan will require a re-submission to and approval by the City Planning
Commission and the City Council.
   (H)   If the conditional use permit is approved, the final plat shall be
submitted to the city in accordance with the city subdivision regulations and
the provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   Within one year after the approval of a final plat for a PUD, or such
time as may be established by an approved development schedule, construction
shall commence in accordance with such approved plan. Failure to commence
construction within allotted schedule shall automatically render void the PUD
permit and all approvals of the PUD plan unless an extension is granted by the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 514.030) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.063 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   Requirements for signs, parking, stormwater drainage, sewage disposal, and
the like, as regulated in appropriate sections of this chapter, as may be
amended.
(Prior Code, § 514.040) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
HOME OCCUPATIONS
§ 150.075 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this section is to prevent competition with business
districts and to provide a means through the establishment of specific
standards and procedures by which home occupations can be conducted in
residential neighborhoods without jeopardizing the health, safety, and general
welfare of the surrounding neighborhood. In addition, this section is intended
to provide a mechanism enabling the distinction between permitted home
occupations and special or customarily “more sensitive” home occupations, so
that permitted home occupations may be allowed through an administrative
process rather than a legislative hearing process.
(Prior Code, § 515.010) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.076 REGULATIONS.
   With the exception of licensed home day cares, all occupations conducted in
the home shall comply with the provisions of this section, the provisions of
the district in which it is located, and other sections of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 515.020) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.077 PROCESS.
   Any home occupation, as defined §
150.002, shall require a home occupation permit. Such permit shall be issued
subject to the conditions of this section and other applicable provisions of
this code of ordinances and state law. This permit may be issued by the Zoning
Administrator based upon proof of compliance with the provisions of this
section. Application for the home occupation permit shall be accompanied by a
fee if so designated by City Council resolution. If the Zoning Administrator
denies a home occupation permit to an applicant, the applicant may appeal the
decision to the City Council which shall make the final decision. The permit
shall remain in full force and effect until such time as there has been a
change in conditions or until such time as the provisions of this section have
been changed. At such time as the city has reason to believe that either event
has taken place, a public hearing shall be held before the Planning Commission.
The City Council shall make a final decision on whether or not the permit
holder is entitled to continue to operate the home occupation.
(Prior Code, § 515.030) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.078 PERMITTED HOME OCCUPATION REGULATIONS.
   Permitted home occupations are limited to activities meeting the following
regulations.
   (A)   No person other than those who customarily reside on the premises and/
or one additional employee shall be in one’s employ on the premises.
   (B)   Permitted home occupations shall not create a parking demand in excess
of that which can be accommodated in an existing driveway or public parking
areas immediately abutting the permitted property.
   (C)   The home occupation shall not involve any of the following: over-the-
counter sale of merchandise produced off the premises, except for those brand
name products that are not marketed and sold in a wholesale or retail outlet.
(Prior Code, § 515.040) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003; Ord. 2018-5, passed 11-14-2018)
§ 150.079 SPECIAL HOME OCCUPATION.
   (A)   Examples of a special home occupation includes: barber or beauty
service, bed and breakfast as outlined in §
150.002 photography studio, saw sharpening, small appliance and small engine
repair and other occupations similar in nature.
   (B)   The following regulations shall apply.
      (1)   Any home occupation which does not meet the specific requirements
for a permitted home occupation as defined in this section shall require a
special home occupation permit which shall be applied for, reviewed and
disposed of in the accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The Planning Commission and the Council may impose such conditions
of the granting of a special home occupation permit as may be necessary to
carry out the provisions of this section.
      (3)   (a)   A special home occupation permit may be issued for a period
of one year after which the permit may be reissued for periods of five years
each.
         (b)   Each application for a permit renewal shall, however, be
processed in accordance with the procedural requirements of the initial special
home occupation permit.
      (4)   (a)   No person other than a resident shall conduct the home
occupation, except where the applicant can satisfactorily prove unusual or
unique conditions or need for nonresident assistance and that this exception
would not compromise the intent of this chapter.
         (b)   The home occupation may involve any of the following: stock-in-
trade incidental to the performance of the service; repair service; or
manufacturing which requires equipment other than customarily found in a home.
         (c)   Special home occupation may be allowed to accommodate their
parking demand through utilization of on-street parking.
         (d)   Bed and breakfasts may be permitted as a special home
occupation; provided, that:
            1.   Four or fewer rooms are for rent for a period not to exceed 14
consecutive days during any 90-day period;
            2.   The establishment confirms with the State Health and Building
Code requirements;
            3.   Large fractions of 25 or more such receptions or business
meetings shall be permitted on-site providing such functions shall be limited
to a maximum of 75 people. The total said functions shall not exceed six events
per calendar year; and
            4.   Small functions of less than 25 people such as receptions or
business meetings shall be permitted on site, unrestricted.
      (5)   Massage therapy may be permitted as a special home occupation
provided; that all requirements outline in this section and other city
ordinances are met.
(Prior Code, § 515.050) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.080 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No home occupation shall produce light glare, noise, order, or
vibration that will in any way have an objectionable effect upon adjacent or
nearby property.
   (B)   No equipment shall be used in the home occupation which will create
electrical interference to surrounding properties.
   (C)   Any home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
residential use of the premises, should not be changed the residential
character there of, and shall result in no incompatibility or disturbance to
the surrounding residential use.
   (D)   There shall be no exterior storage of equipment or materials used in
the home occupation, except personal automobile used in the home occupation may
be parked on the site.
   (E)   The floor area devoted to the home occupation shall not exceed 25% of
the total ground area occupied by building on the lot.
   (F)   There shall be no display or evidence apparent from the exterior of
the lot that the premises are being used for any purpose other than that of a
dwelling, with the exception that one non-illuminated sign measuring one-and
one-half square feet may be attached to the dwelling.
   (G)   Whenever within one year after granting a permit, the use as permitted
shall not have been initiated, then such permit shall become null and void
unless a petition for extension of time to complete the work has been granted
by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 515.060) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.081 NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   Existing home occupations lawfully existing on the effective date of
this chapter may continue as nonconforming uses. They shall, however, be
required to obtain permits for their continued operation.
   (B)   Any existing home occupation that is discontinued for a period of more
than one year shall be brought into conformity with the provisions of this
chapter prior to reinstitution.
(Prior Code, § 515.070) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.082 INSPECTION.
   The city reserves the right upon issuing any home occupation permit to
inspect the premises in which the occupation is being conducted to ensure
compliance and the provisions of this section or any conditions additionally
imposed.
(Prior Code, § 515.008) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
SIGNS
§ 150.095 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this section is to protect, ensure, maintain, and regain the
natural and scenic beauty and attractiveness of the roadside throughout the
city. By the construction of public roads, the public has created views to
which the public retains a right of view and it is the intent of these
standards to prevent the taking of that right. Signs are recognized as
accessory uses and are permitted in all districts subject to the regulations of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 516.010) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.096 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   No sign shall be allowed that is a hazard to the public health,
safety, convenience, welfare ,or that prevents ingress or egress from any door,
window, or fire escape that tends to accumulate debris as a fire hazard or that
is attached to a standpipe or fire escape.
   (B)    Signs shall not resemble, imitate, or approximate the shape, size,
form, or color of railroad or traffic signs, signals, or devices. No sign shall
be placed so as to destruct or interfere with traffic visibility or traffic
control.
   (C)   Private signs are prohibited within the public right-of-way of any
street or easement.
   (D)   Signs with rotating beams are prohibited.
   (E)   Rotating signs are prohibited.
   (F)   Signs painted or attached to vehicles where the vehicle is parked on a
property and not intended to be moved.
   (G)   Roof signs are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 516.020) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003; Ord. 2018-5, passed 11-14-2018)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.097 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Federal sign regulations. All signs along state and federal highways
shall conform to state and federal sign regulations. Billboards erected along
State Highways 22 and 55 shall be spaced a minimum of 500 feet apart.
   (B)   Permanent off-site freestanding signs. All permanent off-site
freestanding signs shall require conditional use permits.
   (C)   Sign maintenance.
      (1)   Painting. The owner of any sign shall be required to have such a
sign properly painted at least once every two years, if needed, including all
parts and supports of the sign, unless such parts or supports are galvanized or
otherwise treated to prevent rust.
      (2)   Area around signs. The owner or lessee of any sign or the owner of
the land on which the sign is located shall keep the grass, weeds, or other
growth cut and the area free from refuse between the sign and the street and
also for a distance of six feet behind at the ends of said sign.
   (D)   Obsolete signs. Any sign which no longer advertises a bona fide
business conducted or a project sold shall be taken down and removed by the
owner, agent, or person having the beneficial use of the building or land upon
which the sign may be found, within ten days after written notice from the
Zoning Administrator.
   (E)   Unsafe or dangerous signs. Any sign which becomes structurally unsafe
or endangers the safety of a building or premises or endangers the public
safety shall be taken down and removed by the owner, agent, or person having
the beneficial use of the building, structure, or land upon which the sign is
located within ten days after written notification from the Zoning
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 516.030) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.098 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following signs do not require a permit, however, they shall conform to
the requirements of this section:
   (A)   Signs for one- and two-family residential dwellings identifying the
occupant or street address, provided; that such signs are less than one square
foot in area;
   (B)   Pedestrian vehicular traffic and parking directional signs in parking
lots, provided, such signs are less than eight square feet in area and less
than six feet in height;
   (C)   Public signs, street signs, warning signs, or signs of public
companies for the purpose of safety;
   (D)   Signs denoting the architect, engineer, contractor, or owners when
placed upon a work site. Such signs shall be removed within ten days after
completion of construction;
   (E)   Signs designating candidates seeking public political office. Such
signs shall be located on private property, shall not be located so as to
obstruct vehicular lines of sight and shall be removed in accordance with state
guidelines for elections;
   (F)   Flags, badges, or insignia of any governmental agency;
   (G)   Emergency signs required by any governmental agency;
   (H)   Temporary real estate signs pertaining only to the sale, rental or
development of a lot upon which it is displayed. One sign shall be permitted
for each lot and must be removed within ten days following the sale, lease, or
development of said property;
   (I)   Banners placed on private property for advertising of a special sales
event or grand opening. Such banners shall contain no advertising;
   (J)   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings, and date of erection;
and
   (K)   Home occupation signs, non-illuminated, attached to the wall of a
dwelling and not exceeding one-and one-half square feet in area.
(Prior Code, § 516.040) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.099 PERMITTED SIGNS IN AG, RSF, RMF, AND RMHD DISTRICTS.
   The following signs are permitted in the AG, RSF, RMF, and RMHD Districts:
   (A)   Signs for nonconforming businesses establishments announcing only the
names and occupation of the proprietor;
   (B)   Bulletin boards for public, charitable, or religious institutions
located on the premises;
   (C)   Religious uses, public institutions, nonresidential, and residential
development signs not exceeding 200 square feet in area per side with no more
than two sides. Such identification signs may be wall or ground mounted or
combination thereof. There may be a second sign if the use abuts two or more
streets; and
   (D)   All signs shall be set back a minimum of five feet from property lines
and shall not be located within 30 feet of an intersection.
(Prior Code, § 516.050) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.100 PERMITTED SIGNS IN COM, CBD, AND IND DISTRICTS.
   The following signs are permitted in the COM, CBD, and IND Districts:
   (A)   Signs that are placed on the exterior walls of buildings shall not
exceed 200 square feet in area for any one premises, and shall not exceed 30
feet in height above the average centerline grade of the street it fronts;
   (B)   Ground and pole signs shall not exceed 40 feet in height above the
average centerline street grade, shall meet all yard requirements for the
district in which it is located, multiple signs on one pole or poles shall not
exceed 300 square feet on one side nor 600 square feet on all sides for any one
premises;
   (C)   Window signs that are placed only inside of the commercial buildings,
provided, not more than 50% of the window is covered;
   (D)   Projecting signs which provide a minimum undersign clearance of at
least ten feet and which do not project more than four feet over a sidewalk and
shall not exceed 40 square feet; and
   (E)   Off-premises advertising signs (billboards) shall only be permitted in
the COM, COM-R, CBD, or IND Districts as a conditional use. These signs shall
not exceed 300 square feet on one side, nor 600 square feet on all sides for
any one premises. Off-premises advertising signs shall meet all setback
requirements and shall not be located within 100 feet of any residential zone,
church, school, or designated recreation area.
(Prior Code, § 516.060) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
OFF-STREET PARKING
§ 150.115 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide for the regulation of and
design standards for off-street parking facilities within the city, to minimize
congestion of the public right-of-way, and to maximize the safety and general
welfare of the public.
(Prior Code, § 517.010) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.116 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Scope of regulations. No provision of any section of this subchapter
shall be less restrictive than those outlined in this section. The off-street
parking requirements and off-street loading requirements of this division (A)
shall apply within all zoning districts, except the previous developed CBD
Central Business District.
   (B)   Calculating space.
      (1)   Where calculations result in requiring a fractional space, any
fraction less than one-half shall be disregarded and any fraction of one-half
or more shall require one space.
      (2)   The term FLOOR AREA for the purpose of calculating the number of
off-street parking spaces required shall be determined on the basis of the
exterior floor area dimensions of the building structure or use times the
number of floors, minus 10%.
      (3)   Should a building or structure contain two or more types of uses,
each should be calculated separately for determining the total off-street
parking spaces required.
   (C)   Site plan.
      (1)   Except for single-family dwellings, all applications for a building
or an occupancy permit shall be accompanied by a site plan drawn to scale and
dimensioned indicating the location of all off-street parking and loading
spaces in compliance with the requirements of this section.
      (2)   The site plan shall include the following information:
         (a)   Zoning district;
         (b)   North point and scale;
         (c)   All adjacent rights-of-way;
         (d)   The ownership of the entire lot being developed;
         (e)   Dimensions of the lot and parking spaces; and
         (f)   The owner’s name, address, and phone number.
      (3)   Such plan shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission and approved
by the City Council, in accordance to the criteria developed in this division
(C).
   (D)   Site plan criteria. Upon review by the Planning Commission and
approval by the City Council, the plan for off-street parking shall meet the
following site design standards.
      (1)   All areas devoted for parking space and driveways shall be surfaced
with permanent materials. All parking areas shall be designed to control
surface runoff to adjacent properties either with curbing or grading
techniques. No landscaped areas shall be used for the parking of vehicles.
      (2)   Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking areas shall be
directed away from abutting property and public right-of-way.
      (3)   No sign shall be so located as to restrict the sight, orderly
operation, and traffic movement within any parking area. Only signs necessary
for the orderly operation of traffic movement or parking regulation shall be
permitted in any parking area. Such signs shall not be considered part of the
permitted advertising space and shall be subject to regulations pursuant to §§
150.095 through
150.100.
      (4)   The parking area shall meet the minimum design standards and number
of stalls required under this section.
   (E)   Reduction of existing parking and loading spaces. Parking or loading
spaces existing upon the effective date of this chapter shall not subsequently
be reduced below the requirements of this section.
   (F)   Change of use or occupancy of land or building. No change of use or
occupancy of land or of use or occupancy of any building, shall be made until
there is furnished sufficient parking and loading spaces as required by this
section.
   (G)   Use of parking and loading space.
      (1)   Required parking or loading spaces shall not be used for storage of
goods or for storage of vehicles or trailers that are inoperable or for sale or
rent.
      (2)   Off-street parking facilities accessory to residential uses shall
be utilized solely for the parking of passenger automobiles and/or one truck
not to exceed 15,000 pounds gross capacity for each dwelling unit, except as
allowed per §
71.02. Under no circumstances shall required parking facilities accessory to
residential structures be used for the storage of commercial vehicles or for
the parking of automobiles belonging to the employees, owners, tenants, or
customers of nearby business establishments.
   (H)   Design and maintenance.
      (1)   Drainage and surfacing.
         (a)   Driveways shall not exceed a grade of 6% and all parking lots,
except those for less than four vehicles, shall be graded according to a
drainage plan which has been approved by the City Engineer.
         (b)   Catch basins, sumps, and underground storm sewers may be
required.
      (2)   Maintenance. It shall be the joint and several responsibility of
the lessee and/or owner of the principal use, uses, or building to maintain in
a neat and adequate manner, the parking area and landscaping.
      (3)   Lighting. All lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking
area shall be shaded or diffused so as to reflect the light away from the
adjoining property and away from abutting traffic flow.
   (I)   Stall, aisle, and driveway design.
      (1)   Each perpendicular parking space shall be not less than nine feet
wide and 20 feet in length, exclusive of an adequately designed system of
access driveways.
      (2)   Except in the case of single-family and two-family dwellings,
parking areas shall be designed so that circulation between parking aisles or
driveways occurs within the designated parking lot and does not depend upon a
public street or alley and such design does not require backing into the public
street.
      (3)   Except in the cases of single-family and two-family dwellings,
parking areas shall comply with the following standards.
 
Angle of Parking Stall Width Stall Depth Minimum Driveway Width
Zero degrees     9 feet      22 feet     12 feet
30 degrees       9 feet      19 feet     12 feet
45 degrees       9 feet      21 feet     13 feet
60 degrees       9 feet      22 feet     18 feet
90 degrees       9 feet      19 feet     24 feet
 
      (4)   No curb cut access shall be located less than 40 feet from the
intersection of two or more street rights-of-way for residential uses, and 60
feet for commercial and industrial areas. This distance shall be measured from
the intersection of lot lines.
      (5)   Curb cut openings shall be a minimum of five feet from the side
property line.
      (6)   All property shall be entitled to at least one curb cut. Single-
family uses shall be limited to one curb cut access per property.
      (7)   Curb cuts shall be limited to 24 feet in width for residential
areas and 36 feet in width for commercial/industrial areas. The City Council
may provide relief from this regulation in special circumstances.
      (8)   All off-street parking spaces shall be served by access aisle or
driveway connections to a public right-of-way.
   (J)   Number of required parking and loading spaces. The following minimum
number of off-street parking and loading spaces shall be provided and
maintained.
Use Number of Required Parking Spaces
Use                                                  Number of Required Parking
                                                     Spaces
Auto repair, bus and taxi terminals, boat and marine 8 spaces, plus 1additional
sales and repair, bottling company, garden supply    space/800 square feet of
store, building material sales                       floor area over 1,000
                                                     square feet
Automobile service station (motor fuel station)   4 spaces, plus 2 spaces
                                                     for each stall
Bed and breakfasts                                   2 spaces/3 persons
Boarding house                                       2 spaces/3 persons
Bowling alley                                        5 spaces/lane or alley
Car wash: automatic drive through                 10 spaces
Car wash, self-service                               2 spaces
                                                     1 space/20 square feet of
Drive-in establishment and convenience food          gross floor area, with a
                                                     minimum of 20 spaces
Elderly housing                                      1 space/unit
High schools                                         10 per classroom
Manufacturing, fabricating, or processing of a       1 space/employee, plus 1
product or materials, warehouse, storage, or post    space per company vehicle
office                                            on premises
Miniature golf course, archery range, golf driving   10 spaces respectively
rage
                                                     1 space/rental room plus
Motels/hotels                                        spaces required for
                                                     restaurant (see
                                                     restaurant)
Multiple-family dwelling                             1 space/unit
Nursing home or rest homes                           4 spaces plus one for each
                                                     3 beds
Office buildings, professional offices, banks,       4 spaces plus 1 space/500
animal hospitals                                     square feet over 1,000
                                                     square feet
Public parks/playgrounds                             As per Planning Commission
                                                     1 space/100 square feet of
Restaurants, café private clubs, bars, taverns, and gross floor area of dining
nightclubs                                           and bar area, plus 1
                                                     space/80 square feet of
                                                     kitchen area
                                                     1 space/200 square feet of
Retail sales and services with 50% or more of floor  gross floor area devoted
area devoted to storage, warehouse and/or industry   to sales or service, plus
                                                     1 space/500 square feet
                                                     storage area
Retail store and service establishment in COM        1 space/200 square feet of
District                                             floor area
Single-family and two-family                         2 spaces/unit
Skating rink, dance hall, public auction house       1 space/200 square feet of
                                                     gross floor area
 
   (K)   Joint facilities. The City Council may, after receiving a
recommendation from the Planning Commission, approve a conditional use permit
for one or more businesses to provide the required off-street parking
facilities by joint use of one or more sites where the total number of spaces
provided are less than the sum of the total required for each business, if the
following conditions are satisfactorily met:
      (1)   The building or use for which the application is being made to
utilize the off-street parking facilities provided by another building or use
shall be located within 300 feet of such parking facilities;
      (2)   The applicant shall show that there is no substantial conflict in
the operating hours of the two buildings or uses for which joint use of off-
street parking facilities is proposed; and
      (3)   The provisions of this chapter are considered and satisfactorily
met.
   (L)   Off-street loading facilities. Loading space required under this
section shall be at least 50 feet long and ten feet wide. The regulations of
this section are not applicable in the CBD Central Business District. An off-
street loading space shall be required for every lot used for commercial or
industrial purposes and having a building or buildings of at least 10,000
square feet. An off-street loading space shall be required for every lot used
for office or research purposes having a building or buildings of at least
20,000 square feet. An additional off-street loading space shall be required
for lots used for commercial or industrial purposes where the floor area of all
buildings exceeds 100,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 517.020) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003; Ord. passed 1-5-2005) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 150.117 EXCEPTIONS.
   There shall be no off-street parking requirements within the CBD Central
Business District for permitted uses.
(Prior Code, § 517.030) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
SOLAR AND WIND GENERATING FACILITIES
§ 150.120 SOLAR AND WIND ELECTRIC-GENERATING FACILITIES REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Intent. To regulate location of solar and wind-generating electric
facilities within the City of Eden Valley and guide their development to areas
which are most appropriate given their conditions, and to limit impacts of such
facilities on adjacent residential properties.
   (B)   Solar Projects. Solar Projects shall include any Solar Garden,
Community Solar, Solar Energy System, Solar Farm, or any other solar project
not intended for personal use, such as a single family home, farm, or business
and shall be an Conditional Use within any A-l, Agricultural/Rural Residential
District.
   (C)   Wind Projects. Wind Projects shall include any Wind Turbine, Wind
Farm, Community Wind, Wind Energy System, Wind Garden, or any other electrical-
generating facility utilizing wind, including those for personal uses such as
single-family home, farm, or business shall be considered an Conditional Use
within any A-l, Agricultural/Rural Residential District.
   (D)   Solar Project standards. All Solar Projects shall be subject to the
following standards:
      (1)   Setbacks.
         (a)   All Solar Projects shall have a minimum 50 foot side and rear
yard setback.
         (b)   All Solar Projects shall have a minimum 300 foot setback to any
residential home not located on the same property.
         (c)   All Solar Projects shall have a minimum 700 foot setback from
any County or State Highway.
         (d)   There shall be a minimum 3/4 mile setback between any Solar
Project and another Solar Project, including those approved or developed prior
to establishment of this subchapter.
         (e)   All setbacks as above shall be measured from the outermost solar
panel(s) of the Solar Project.
      (2)   Shall not exceed 15 feet in height from grade.
      (3)   Shall be subject to stormwater management and erosion and sediment
control best practices and NPDES permit requirements, and shall obtain
requisite permits from the MPCA, local watershed district, City, and any other
applicable regulatory agencies.
      (4)   Shall be designed and located in such a way as to utilize existing
lowland/wetland areas that are otherwise non-buildable in their current
condition, and to avoid agricultural and otherwise developable area.
      (5)   Shall be in compliance with any applicable local, state, and
federal regulatory standards, including building, electrical, and plumbing
codes.
      (6)   Power and communications lines that are not defined in this
subchapter as essential services and running between banks of solar panels to
electric substations or interconnections with buildings that are on adjacent
parcels shall be buried underground.
      (7)   A 15 foot wide densely-planted perimeter landscaped buffer that
includes a combination of evergreen trees and shrubs shall be provided around
the project perimeter on any side that faces an adjacent public roadway or an
adjacent property with a residential home or homes on it. Evergreen trees shall
be planted at minimum six foot height.
      (8)   Solar Projects shall not be used for the display of advertising.
      (9)   A professional licensed engineer in the State of Minnesota shall
certify that the foundation and design of the solar panels is within accepted
professional standards, given local soil and climate conditions.
      (10)   Any Solar Project using a reflector to enhance solar production
shall minimize glare from the reflector that may affect adjacent or nearby
properties. Steps to minimize glare may include selective placement of the
system, screening on the side of the solar energy system facing the reflectors,
reducing use of the reflector system, or other remedies that limit glare. All
Solar Projects shall be designed and located in order to prevent reflective
glare toward inhabited buildings on adjacent properties and adjacent public
roadways.
      (11)   No on-site system to store energy using batteries or capacitors
shall be allowed.
   (E)   Wind Project Standards. All Wind Projects shall be subject to the
following standards:
      (1)   Setbacks.
         (a)   All Wind Projects shall have a minimum 50 foot side and rear
yard setback.
         (b)   All Wind Projects shall have a minimum 300 foot setback to any
residential home not located on the same property.
         (c)   All Wind Projects have a minimum 700 foot setback from any
public road.
         (d)   There shall be a minimum 3/4 mile setback between any Wind
Project.
      (2)   Shall not exceed 100 feet in height from grade.
      (3)   Shall be subject to stormwater management and erosion and sediment
control best practices and NPDES permit requirements, and shall obtain
requisite permits from the MPCA, local watershed district, City, and any other
applicable regulatory agencies.
      (4)   Shall be in compliance with any applicable local, state, and
federal regulatory standards, including building, electrical, and plumbing
codes.
      (5)   Power and communications lines that are not defined in this
subchapter as essential services and running between wind turbine(s) to
electric substations or interconnections with buildings that are on adjacent
parcels shall be buried underground.
      (6)   Wind Projects shall not be used for the display of advertising.
      (7)   A professional licensed engineer in the State of Minnesota shall
certify that the structure of the Wind Project is within accepted professional
standards, given local soil and climate conditions.
      (8)   Wind Project design documents shall demonstrate inclusion
emergency/default braking mechanism designed to prevent catastrophic failure
from excessive speed.
      (9)   On-site energy storage systems (such as batteries or capacitors)
may be allowed subject to submittal of designs certified safe and review/
approval by city.
   (F)   Application requirements. All Conditional Use Permit applications for
Solar Projects and Wind Projects shall include the following:
      (1)   Project narrative describing proposed project in detail.
      (2)   Site plan depicting existing property boundaries and property
boundaries extending 100 feet from the exterior boundaries, including the names
of the adjacent property owner(s) and current use of those properties.
      (3)   Existing public and private roads, including width of roads and any
associated easements.
      (4)   Location and use of existing buildings onsite.
      (5)   Topography at two-foot intervals and source of contour interval.
Contour map of surrounding properties may also be required subject to city
request.
      (6)   Existing vegetation (list type and percent of coverage; i.e.
grassland, pasture, plowed field, wood areas, etc.).
      (7)   Waterways, watercourses, lakes, and public water wetlands.
      (8)   Delineated wetland boundaries. Solar Projects shall demonstrate
priority for locating facilities in marsh/wetland areas as deemed permissible
by Stearns County and avoidance of agricultural or upland areas, and submit
documentation and narrative explaining why marsh/wetland areas are not being
utilized when available.
      (9)   The 100-year flood elevation and Regulatory Flood Protection
Elevation, floodway, flood fringe, and/or general flood plain district
boundary, if applicable.
      (10)   Drainage and grading plan.
      (11)   Location and spacing of proposed solar panels or wind turbine(s).
      (12)   Planned location of underground or overhead electric lines
connecting the facilities to the building, substation or other electric load.
      (13)   Sketch elevation of the premises accurately depicting the proposed
ground-mounted conversion system(s) and associated facilities and their
relationship to structures on adjacent lots (if any);
      (14)   Natural Resource Impact Assessment. For Solar Projects with a
project size exceeding ten acres, the applicant must provide a Natural Resource
Impact Assessment. The assessment must address impacts of the project
(construction and maintenancephases) to natural resource, defined as natural
vegetation, native plant communities, soils, surface waters, wetlands, wildlife
and nongame species, and fisheries. The assessment must include a review of the
Minnesota DNR Natural Heritage Information System (NHIS) to determine if any
rare species or rare natural resource features are located in proximity to the
project.
      (15)   Solar Projects shall submit glare study utilizing U.S. Department
of Energy's Solar Glare Hazard Analysis Tool to identify the impacts of the
system on occupied buildings and transportation rights-of-way within a half-
mile of the project boundary.
      (16)   Detailed landscaping plan.
      (17)   Viewshed analysis denoting proposed visual impact on adjacent
public roadways and residential properties, including color renderings.
      (18)   Decommissioning plan. A decommissioning plan shall be required per
division (G) for Solar Projects to ensure that facilities are properly removed
after the expiration of the Conditional Use Permit, or, if earlier, after the
useful life of solar panels and other facilities.
   (G)   Decommissioning.
      (1)   Decommissioning of Solar Projects and related facilities must occur
in the event the Conditional Use Permit expires or is terminated, and/or the
solar panels are not in use for 12 consecutive months. The plan shall include
provisions for removal of all structures, foundations, equipment and power and
communication lines, restoration of soil and vegetation to its pre-developed
conditions, estimated cost of decommissioning at expiration of Conditional Use
Permit (including estimated inflation with cited source), and a financial
guarantee ensuring that financial resources will be available to fully
decommission the site. The applicant shall provide a bond, letter of credit,
escrow, or other financial security in a form and amount set at not less than
125% of the estimated decommissioning plan cost (and higher as may be deemed
appropriate by the city), naming the city as the obligee. The applicant shall
further submit statement denoting that they or their heirs/successors shall be
responsible for incurring any additional unforeseen costs associated with
removal or decommissioning of any materials which were not deemed hazardous at
the time of approval or installation but have later been reclassified as such
at any time during the duration of the Conditional Use Permit.
      (2)   If said decommissioning has not been completed within a six-month
period after the Conditional Use Permit has expired or has been terminated and/
or the solar panels are not in use for a minimum of 12 consecutive months, then
the city shall provide written notice by certified mail to the landowner
requiring the decommissioning be completed within 60 calendar days of the
receipt of said notice. If the decommissioning has not been completed within 60
days of the receipt of said notice, the city may either undertake the
decommissioning and charge the landowner and/or facility owner and operator for
all costs and associated expenses thereof, including reasonable attorney's
fees, or take appropriate legal action to compel the decommissioning. All costs
incurred by the city shall be billed to the landowner and if not paid within 60
calendar days of billing, shall become a lien against the solar project or
levied as an assessment against the property.
      (3)   In the event that the city chooses to undertake the decommissioning
as stated above, the city shall have the right to draw on the bond, letter of
credit, escrow, or other financial security at its discretion.
(Ord. 2020-006, passed 9-2-2020)
GENERAL DISTRICT PROVISIONS
§ 150.130 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The performance standards established in this subchapter are designed
to encourage a high standard of development and delineate requirements for
planned unit developments, mobile home parks, signs, parking, and loading and
sewage disposal. Before any site permit is approved, the Zoning Administrator
shall determine whether the proposed use will conform to these standards.
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish general development
standards to assure compatible land uses to prevent blight and deterioration
and to enhance the health, safety, and general welfare of the city.
(Prior Code, § 518.010) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.131 DWELLING UNIT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No cellar, basement, or tent shall at any time be used as an
independent residence or dwelling unit, temporarily or permanently, except
allowed as a conditional use as set forth and regulated by this subchapter.
   (B)   Basements with proper egress may be used as living quarters or rooms
as a portion of residential dwellings.
   (C)   Tents, play houses, or similar structures may be used for play or
recreational purposes.
   (D)   Existing cellars or basements used as an independent dwelling unit
shall have the status of a nonconforming use, subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (E)   No dwelling shall hereafter be erected or altered unless the parcel
that it is on is located immediately adjacent to and has direct access from a
public street.
   (F)   Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 462.3593, subd. 9, as it may
be amended from time to time, the city opts-out of the requirements of M.S. §
462.3593, as it may be amended from time to time, which defines and regulates
temporary family health care dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 518.020) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003; Ord. 2016-3, passed 8-31-2016)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.132 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In cases where an accessory building is attached to the principal
structure, it shall be made structurally a part of the principal structure and
shall comply in all respects with the requirements of this subchapter
applicable to the principal structure. An accessory building, unless attached
to and made a part of the principal structure shall not be closer than five
feet to the principal structure.
   (B)   (1)   For the purposes of this chapter, setbacks shall be measured
from the property line to the wall of the structure. Accessory buildings may be
located in the side and rear yards of a lot, except, however, that no such
encroachment may occur on required side yard setbacks abutting a street in the
case of a corner lot.
      (2)   The following standards shall apply to all accessory structures in
the RSF, RMF, and RMHD Districts:
         (a)   Accessory structure(s) shall not exceed 30% of the area of the
side and rear yards;
         (b)   All accessory buildings in the RSF, RMF, and RHMD Residential
Districts shall be set back from all adjoining lots a distance of at least five
feet, shall be located at least five feet away from any other building or
structure on the same lot, and shall not be located within a utility easement
or within the required front yard setback;
         (c)   No detached accessory structure shall be erected or altered so
as to encroach in the front yard setback of a lot; and
         (d)   Garages having an overhead door that directly faces an alley
shall be setback at least 15 feet from the alley.
      (3)   In all other cases, other than those noted within §
150.131, accessory buildings shall conform to setbacks which are imposed within
the respective zoning district. In districts where gas stations are allowed,
pump islands may be located within a required yard provided they are not less
than 15 feet from any street right-of-way line.
      (4)   No lot in the RSF, RMHD, RMF, or COMM-R Districts shall have more
than two detached portable accessory structures or buildings.
      (5)   The same or similar quality exterior building materiel shall be
used in the accessory building and the principal building.
      (6)   Accessory buildings shall comply with the following height
limitations.
Zoning District Maximum Height Maximum Eave Height
Zoning District Maximum Height Maximum Eave Height
CBD             District limit District limit
COM             District limit District limit
COM-R           District limit District limit
IND             District limit District limit
RHMD            18 feet        10 feet
RMF             18 feet        10 feet
RSF             18 feet        10 feet
 
   (C)   Tarp/Polyvinyl structures are prohibited as accessory buildings in all
zoning districts within the city.
(Prior Code, § 518.030) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003; Ord. 2020-002, passed 8-5-2020)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.133 GENERAL BUILDING YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section identifies yard, building type, and height
requirements in each zoning district.
   (B)   Building restrictions.
      (1)   Any person desiring to improve property shall submit to the Zoning
Administrator information on the location and dimensions of existing and
proposed buildings, location of easements crossing the property encroachments,
and any other information which may be necessary to ensure conformance to city
ordinances. Applicants shall be responsible for locating all property
boundaries and providing certification of said property boundaries by providing
a survey of the lot to the city or providing confirmation of the placement of
survey pins through a site visit.
      (2)   All buildings shall be so placed that they will not obstruct future
streets or alleys that may be constructed by the city in conformity with
existing streets and according to the system and standards employed by the
city.
      (3)   Except in the case of planned unit developments, not more than one
principal building shall be located on a lot. The words “principal building”
shall be given their common, ordinary meaning; in case of doubt or on any
question or interpretation, the decision of the Zoning Administrator shall be
final, subject to the right of appeal to the Planning Commission and City
Council.
      (4)   Before construction is commenced or a building is brought into the
city, a site plan and architectural plan, must be submitted to the city
depicting, at a minimum, the dimensions of the lot, the layout of structures,
the proposed size of the structures, the proposed finishes of the structure and
other relevant information as may be requested by the city.
      (5)   Mobile homes, buildings, tents, or other structures temporarily
maintained by an individual or company on the premises associated with the work
project and used exclusively to house labor or other personnel occupied in such
work project shall be exempt from the requirements of this chapter. Such mobile
homes, buildings, tents, or other structures shall be removed within ten days
from the completion of the work project.
   (C)   Building type and construction.
      (1)   No galvanized or unfinished steel or unfinished aluminum buildings
(walls or roofs) (except those specifically intended to have a non-corrosive
designed finish such as corten steel), shall be permitted in any zoning
district except in association with farming operations or industrial uses.
      (2)   Residential dwellings in the RSF and RMF Districts shall have a
minimum roof pitch of 3:12, and each roof shall be shingled or feature approved
materials. Residential dwelling structures in the RSF and RMF Districts shall
have a minimum of 70% of the structure a minimum width of 22 feet. All
residential dwelling structures in the RMF and RSF Districts shall be placed on
permanent foundations of wood or concrete, which shall be completed prior to
the installation of exterior finishes of the building and shall fit the
structure placed on the foundation.
      (3)   Exterior building finishes shall consist of materials comparable in
grade and quality to the following:
         (a)   Brick;
         (b)   Natural stone;
         (c)   Decorative concrete block;
         (d)   Cast in place concrete or pre-cast concrete panels;
         (e)   Wood;
         (f)   Curtain wall panels of steel, fiberglass, and aluminum provided
such panels are factory fabricated and finished with a durable, non-fade
surface and their fasteners are of a corrosion-resistant design;
         (g)   Glass curtain wall panels;
         (h)   Stucco; and
         (i)    Vinyl, aluminum, colored steel, no-maintenance type siding.
      (4)   All exterior finishes must be completed and completely enclosed
within 12 months of exterior walls being installed on the property. This
includes installing exterior building finishes, doors, and shingles.
      (5)   Tarp/polyvinyl structures are prohibited in all zoning districts
within the city.
   (D)   Building height.
      (1)   In districts other than RSF or RMF, building heights in excess of
those standards contained in the district provisions may be permitted through a
conditional use permit, provided; that:
         (a)   The site is capable of accommodating the increased intensity of
use;
         (b)   The use does not negatively impact traffic flow or capacity of
surrounding public rights- of-way;
         (c)   For each additional story over three stories or for each
additional ten feet above 40 feet, front and side yard setback requirements
shall be increased by 5%;
         (d)   Applicants proposing structures constructed exclusively for or
hosting tele communications equipment shall provide written verification of
approval from the Federal Communications Commission and the Federal Aviation
Administration to the extent required by those agencies; and
         (e)   The city shall require an applicant who proposes the
construction of any structure with a height equal to or greater than 200 feet
above ground level; or the alteration of any structure to a height which is
equal to or greater than 200 feet above ground level to notify the State
Department of Transportation Commissioner and the Federal Aviation
Administration Administrator of said proposal at least 30 days prior to the
City Council’s consideration of said request if notice is required by those
agencies. Should notice be required by those agencies the applicant shall
submit evidence to the city verifying the State Department of Transportation
and the Federal Aviation Administration have been duly notified of said
proposed structure prior to City Council approval.
      (2)   Building height limits established for districts shall not apply to
the following providing said structures do not exceed 200 feet above ground
level:
         (a)   Cooling towers;
         (b)   Elevator penthouses;
         (c)   Monuments; and
         (d)   Wind energy conversion system towers.
      (3)   Building height limits established for districts shall not apply to
the following provided a conditional use permit is issued, in accordance with
§§
150.160 through
150.171.
         (a)   Belfries;
         (b)   Chimneys or flues;
         (c)   Church spires;
         (d)   Cupolas and domes which do not contain usable space;
         (e)   Parapet walls extending not more than three feet above the
limiting height of the building;
         (f)   Poles, towers, and other structures for essential services;
         (g)   Necessary mechanical and electrical appurtenances; and
         (h)   Farming buildings.
   (E)   Yards.
      (1)   No lot, yard, or other open space shall be reduced in area or
dimension so as to make such lot, yard, or open space less than the minimum
required by this chapter, and if the existing yard or other open space as
existing is less than the minimum required, it shall not be further reduced. No
required open space provided about any building or structure shall be included
as part of any open space required for another structure.
      (2)   The following shall not be considered as encroachments on yard
setback requirements:
         (a)   Chimneys, flues, fire escapes, leaders, sills, pilasters,
lintels, ornamental features, cornices, eaves, gutters, and the like, provided,
they do not project more than three feet into a yard;
         (b)   Stoops that are less than 25 square feet and project less than
four feet into the required yard setbacks shall not be considered encroachments
on yard setback requirements;
         (c)   In rear yards, recreational and laundry drying equipment,
arbors, and trellises, detached outdoor living rooms, and air conditioning or
heating equipment, provided, they are at a distance of five feet from the rear
lot line; and
         (d)   Additions to existing structures so long as the addition does
not encroach any further into the existing setback.
      (3)   Where adjacent structures have front yard setbacks different from
those required, the minimum front yard setback shall be the average setback of
such adjacent structures. If only one adjacent lot is occupied by a structure,
the minimum front yard shall be the average of the required setbacks and the
setback of such adjacent structure. In no case shall the setback requirement
exceed the minimum established for the respective zoning district.
      (4)   Through lots or lots in which a public right-of-way is located on
two or more sides, the front yard setback requirements shall be provided on all
street sides.
(Prior Code, § 518.040) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003; Ord. 2020-002, passed 8-5-2020;
Ord. 2024-03, passed 4-3-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.134 OUTDOOR STORAGE.
   (A)   Outside storage, residential, commercial and industrial uses.
      (1)   All outside storage of materials and equipment for residential uses
(excluding farms) shall be stored within a building or fully screened so as not
to be visible from adjoining properties, except for the following:
         (a)   Clothes line pole and wire;
         (b)   Not more than three recreational vehicles and equipment of which
not more than one can be a motor home;
         (c)   Construction and landscaping material currently being used on
the premises;
         (d)   Parking of currently registered and operable passenger vehicles
and trucks;
         (e)   Lawn furniture or furniture used and constructed explicitly for
outdoor use; and
         (f)   Rear or side yard exterior storage of firewood for the purpose
of consumption only by the person(s) on whose property it is stored.
      (2)   Except as allowed by district use provisions, outside storage of
equipment, materials, and inventory as a principal or accessory use for
commercial and industrial uses shall require a conditional use permit subject
to the provisions of §§
150.160 through
150.171 and all nonresidential outside storage shall conform to the following
conditions:
         (a)   The area occupied is not within a required front or required
side yard;
         (b)   The storage area is totally fenced, fully screened and
landscaped according to a plan approved by the Planning Commission;
         (c)   If abutting a residential district or a residential use,
screening and landscaping is provided according to a plan approved by the
Zoning Administrator;
         (d)   The storage area is grassed or surfaced to control dust; and
         (e)   Any/all lighting shall be directed away from the public right-
of-way and from neighboring residences.
(Prior Code, § 518.050) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.135 FENCING, SCREENING, AND LANDSCAPING.
    Fences, retaining walls, and sound barriers shall not be constructed
without a site permit.
   (A)   No fence shall exceed four feet in the front yard or six feet in the
side and rear yard in height as measured from the average point between the
highest and lowest grade, except security fencing which shall not exceed eight
feet including barbed wire toppings.
   (B)   No fence, screen, shrub, or structure greater than two feet in height
shall be located within 20 feet of any corner formed by the intersection of
street or railroad rights-of-way as measured from the intersecting property
lines.
   (C)   In all zoning districts, all usable open space as defined by this
chapter shall be planted and maintained in grass, sodding, shrubs, or other
suitable vegetation or treatment, unless devoted to drives, sidewalks or
patios.
   (D)   All screening required by the provisions of this chapter shall consist
of either:
      (1)   A green belt planting strip consisting of vegetative cover of
sufficient width and density to provide an effective screen; or
      (2)   A fence constructed of masonry, brick, wood, or steel which is
compatible with surrounding structures and buildings.
   (E)   Except as provided in this chapter, fences shall be set back at least
three feet from the lot lines or, may be placed on the property line or closer
to the property line upon mutual consent of the abutting property owner(s).
   (F)   The side of any fence considered to be its “face” (i.e., the finished
side having no structural supports) shall face abutting property or street
right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 518.060) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003; Ord. 2018-5, passed 11-14-2018)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.136 MOVING OF BUILDINGS.
    Any building or structure which has been wholly or partially erected on any
premises, located either within or outside of the city, shall not be moved to
or placed upon any other premises in the city until a permit to use such
building or structure has been approved by the city. Any such building shall
conform to all the provisions of this chapter in the same manner as a new
building or structure. Any such building to be used as a principal use shall
not be moved in until a foundation and utilities for the principal use building
have been installed.
(Prior Code, § 518.070) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003; Ord. 2018-5, passed 11-14-2018)
§ 150.137 VISION CLEARANCE AT CORNERS, CURB CUTS, AND RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   No structure, vehicle, vegetation, fence, sign, building, or any obstacle or
any portion thereof, shall be placed or retained in such a manner to constitute
a traffic hazard or obstruct the vision clearance of corners, curb cuts, or
railroad crossings.
(Prior Code, § 518.080) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.138 LIGHTING.
   Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking area, sign, or
structure shall be arranged so as to deflect light away from any adjoining
residential properties or uses from the public streets.
(Prior Code, § 518.090) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.139 NOISE.
   Noise shall be muffled so as not to become objectionable due to
intermittence, beat frequency, shrillness, or intensity, except for noise from
agricultural sources in the agricultural district generated by agricultural use
shall be exempt.
(Prior Code, § 518.100) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.140 ODORS.
   Any use established, enlarged, or remodeled shall be so operated as to
prevent the emission of odorous matter of such quantity as to be readily
detectable at any point beyond the lot line of the site on which such use is
located. Detailed plans for the prevention of odors crossing property lines may
be required before the issuance of a site permit, except odors from
agricultural sources.
(Prior Code, § 518.110) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.141 SATELLITE DISHES AND OTHER DISHES.
   (A)   Any satellite dishes hereafter erected shall conform to the provisions
of this section and any other ordinance or regulation of the city.
   (B)   All dish antennas over one meter (39.4 inches) shall be prohibited
from roof tops unless it is determined by the City Council that placement
within side or rear yards is impractical.
   (C)   Satellite dishes and other dishes shall not be located in front yards.
   (D)   No satellite dish or other dish shall be located within ten feet of
any rear lot or side lot line in any residential district.
   (E)   A limit of two such structures shall exist at any one time on any
residential zoned and used lot or parcel except that satellite dishes exceeding
one meter in width shall be limited to one per residential lot or parcel.
   (F)   The applicant shall be responsible for any required license by any
federal, state, or local agency.
(Prior Code, § 518.120) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.142 RESIDENTIAL POOLS AND SPAS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOLS. Any constructed permanent pool which is
intended for non-commercial use as a swimming pool by the owner’s family and
their guests and which is over 24 inches in depth and has a surface area
exceeding 200 square feet.
   (B)   Construction.
      (1)   Utility lines. Pools shall not be located beneath utility lines or
over underground utility lines of any type.
      (2)   Setback. No person shall build, situate, or install a pool within
ten feet of any side or rear lot line, nor within six feet of any principal
structure nor within any required front yard.
      (3)   Portable fences. While being constructed, the pool must be fenced
with a portable fence, such as snow fence, of not less than four feet in
height.
   (C)   Fencing.
      (1)   Minimum height. All outdoor pools hereafter constructed shall be
completely enclosed by a fence or wall of the non-climbing type so as to be
impenetrable by toddlers, afford no external handholds and a minimum of four
feet in height.
      (2)   Self-closing. All outdoor fence openings or outdoor points of entry
into the pool area shall be equipped with self-closing and self-latching
devices. The openings between the bottom of the fence and the ground or other
surface shall not be more than three inches.
   (D)   Permits. No person shall construct, alter, or renovate a pool without
a site permit.
(Prior Code, § 518.130) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003; Ord. 2018-5, passed 11-14-2018)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.143 LAND RECLAMATION AND MINING.
   (A)   Land reclamation.
      (1)   Under this chapter, land reclamation is the reclaiming of land by
depositing of materials so as to elevate the grade.
      (2)   All land reclamation shall be controlled under the provisions of
this chapter, and shall meet the following standards:
         (a)   The smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for as short a
time as feasible;
         (b)   Temporary ground cover is used and permanent ground cover, such
as sod, is planted;
         (c)   Methods to prevent erosion and trap sediment are employed;
         (d)   Fill is stabilized to accepted engineering standards; and
         (e)   Final slopes for cut slopes should be a maximum of 1:1, or 100%;
fill slope 3:1 or 30%; and grade or construction slope 5:1 or 20%.
   (B)   Mining. The extraction of sand, gravel, or other material from the
land in the total amount of 100 cubic yards or more and removal thereof from
the site without processing shall be defined as mining. In all districts, the
conduct of mining shall not be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 518.140) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.144 ANTENNAS.
   The following standards shall apply to all cellular telephone, microwave,
radio and television broadcast transmitting, radio and television receiving,
satellite, and short-wave radio transmitting and receiving antenna.
   (A)   All obsolete and unused antennas shall be removed within 12 months of
cessation of operation at the site.
   (B)   No advertising message shall be affixed to the antenna structure.
   (C)   No antenna shall exceed 150 feet in height.
   (D)   Antennas shall not be artificially illuminated unless required by law
or by a governmental agency to protect the public’s health and safety.
   (E)   All antennas shall be located upon existing structures if possible
(example: municipal water tower, existing antenna towers, and the like).
   (F)   If no existing structure which meets the height requirements for
mounting the antenna is available, the antennas may be mounted upon a
supporting pole or tower not exceeding 150 feet in height if:
      (1)   The property on which the tower or pole is proposed to be located
is zoned for industrial uses;
      (2)   The proposed pole or tower shall be setback from the property line
a minimum of 100 feet; and
      (3)   A conditional use permit shall be required.
(Prior Code, § 518.150) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.145 COMPLIANCE.
   All uses shall comply with all federal, state, and local pollution and
nuisance laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, glare, smoke,
dust, odors, and noise. The burden of proof for compliance of appropriate
performance standards shall lie with the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 518.160) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.146 CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Includes. Cultivation, delivery service, event, hemp, manufacturing,
medical combination, mezzobusiness, microbusiness, testing facility, transport,
retail, wholesale.
   (B)   Performance standards. Cannabis businesses shall be subject to all
administrative and zoning requirements in the city code.
      (1)   Cannabis businesses are not considered an accessory use incidental
to the primary use of the property.
      (2)   Cannabis businesses must comply with M.S. Ch. 342 and Minn. Rules
Ch. 9810, as they may be amended from time to time. Where conflicts exists
between this chapter and related statutes or rules, the standards contained in
the statute and rule will apply.
      (3)   Outdoor display is prohibited. Outdoor display is an outdoor
arrangement of objects, items, products or other materials typically not in a
fixed position and capable of rearrangement, designed and used for the purpose
of advertising or identifying a business, product or service.
      (4)   Outdoor storage of goods and hazardous materials is prohibited.
Outdoor storage of equipment may be allowed. Outdoor storage areas shall be
limited to the rear or side yard locations and at no time shall storage
equipment extend beyond the front building line of the principal structure. The
storage area shall be fenced and adequately screened from adjacent land uses
and public roadways.
      (5)   All parking areas, loading areas and access drives to parking and
loading areas shall be durable and dustless.
      (6)   A transportation management plan shall be submitted to address off-
street parking, loading and unloading, internal circulation, traffic control
and the impact of the facility on surrounding roadways. The transportation
management plan shall include estimates of the number and type of vehicles
using the parcel daily and monthly, the times of day when the highest and
lowest number of vehicles will be present and other information deemed relevant
to assess potential transportation impacts.
      (7)   All loading and unloading facilities shall be located on the rear
or side of the structure and be screened from view from all public roadways and
adjacent residential uses.
      (8)   An operations plan addressing air quality, dust management, sound
attenuation and vibration dampening shall be submitted for approval.
      (9)   An environmental management plan, including a water and sewer
management plan to address the use of water and the treatment of waste on-site
and a storm water and drainage plan shall be submitted to address the impact of
the facility on the environment.
      (10)   A copy of the business’s standard operating procedure must be
submitted in accordance with Minn. Rules pt. 9810.1000.
      (11)   Cannabis businesses shall meet the following setbacks as measured
in a straight line from the door of the school or day care or if no dwelling
the closest point of the property line of the parcel upon which the cannabis
business is located, to the property line of the following uses: 175 feet of
the door to the school; 175 feet of the door to the day care; 175 feet from an
attraction within a public park that is regularly used by minors, including a
public ground or athletic field.
      (12)   A waste disposal plan shall be submitted to address storage,
handling, use and potential hazards according to Minn. Rules pt. 9810.1200.
Solid waste shall be stored, collected, transported or disposed of in a manner
which is in conformity with Meeker/Stearns County Solid Waste Ordinance.
      (13)   A security and lighting plan must be submitted in accordance with
Minn. Rules pt. 9810.1500.
      (14)   A plan for proper ventilation and filtration for odor control must
be submitted in accordance with Minn. Rules Ch. 9810.
      (15)   Retail sales are prohibited from 10:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. for
businesses with a retail endorsement for retail cannabis, medical cannabis, and
low-potency hemp products. Retail sales with consumption endorsement shall
follow their liquor license hours.
      (16)   A cultivator must indicate in its cultivation plan whether it
plans to cultivate indoors or outdoors. Cultivation plans must comply with
Minn. Rules pt. 9810.200, subp. 3.
      (17)   An outdoor cultivation area must be securely surrounded by fencing
and locked gates on the entire perimeter, to prevent access to the area by
unauthorized persons set forth in Minn. Rules pt. 9810.1500, subp. 15.
      (18)   Cannabis events shall comply with Minn. Rules pt. 9810.2700.
Delivery services and transport businesses are limited to a maximum of five
vehicles.
      (19)   Microbusinesses and mezzobusinesses shall have a cultivation and
manufacturing endorsement.
(Ord. 2024-09, passed 12-4-2024)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.160 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to outline administration of this chapter
and establish procedures for nonconformances, exceptions, variances,
conditional use permits, and the duties of administrating officers and the
Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 519.010) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.161 APPLICATION.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the
public health, safety, and welfare.
   (B)   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this chapter are
either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed
by any other law, ordinance, statute, resolution, or regulation of any kind,
the regulations which are more restrictive or which impose higher standards or
requirements shall prevail.
   (C)   Except as specifically provided in this chapter, no structure shall be
erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or altered. No structure or land
shall be used for any purpose or in any manner which is not in conformity with
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 519.020) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.162 EXISTING LOTS.
   A lot or parcel of land for which a deed, recorded contract for deed, or
other legal conveyance has been executed prior to the effective date of this
chapter shall be deemed a buildable lot, provided, it can meet the minimum
setback requirements in the zoning district where it is located.
(Prior Code, § 519.030) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.163 NONCONFORMANCE.
   (A)   Generally. Any structure or use existing upon the effective date of
the adoption of this chapter and which does not conform to the provisions of
the ordinance may be continued subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   No such nonconformity shall be expanded, reconstructed, or enlarged
except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   If the nonconformity or occupancy is discontinued for a period of
12 months, further use of the structures or property shall conform to this
chapter.
      (3)   If a nonconforming structure is destroyed by any cause, to an
extent exceeding 50% of its fair market value as indicated by the records of
the County Assessor, and a site permit is not applied for within 180 days of
the property damage, all subsequent use, occupancy, and structure on the site
shall conform to this chapter.
      (4)   Alterations may be made to a building containing lawful
nonconforming residential units when they will improve the livability thereof,
provided, they will not increase the number of dwelling units or size or volume
of the building. A nonconforming dwelling may not, however, be demolished and a
new dwelling constructed unless the new dwelling is in full compliance with
this chapter.
      (5)   Nonconforming single-family dwelling units and developed
substandard single-family lots may be expanded to improve livability as a
conditional use; provided, that the nonconformity is not increased.
      (6)   No nonconforming building, structure or use shall be moved to
another lot or to any other part of the parcel of land upon which the same was
constructed or was conducted at the time of this chapter adoption unless such
movement shall bring the nonconformance substantially closer to compliance with
the requirements of this chapter.
      (7)   When any lawful nonconforming use of any structure or land in any
district has been changed to a conforming use, it shall not thereafter be
changed to any nonconforming use.
      (8)   A lawful nonconforming use of a structure or parcel of land may be
changed to lessen the nonconformity of use. Once a nonconforming structure or
parcel of land has been changed, it shall not thereafter be so altered to
increase the nonconformity.
      (9)   Normal maintenance of a building or other structure containing or
related to a lawful nonconforming use is permitted, including necessary non-
structural repairs and incidental alterations which do not extend or intensify
the nonconforming use.
   (B)   Nonconforming lots of record.
      (1)   A single-family dwelling and customary accessory building,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter, may be
erected in any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted on any
single lot of record at the effective date of adoption of or amendment to this
chapter. Such lot must be in separate ownership and not of continuous frontage
with other lots in the same ownership. The provisions shall apply even though
such lot fails to meet the zoning requirements for area or width, or both, that
are generally applicable in the district, provided; that yard dimensions and
other requirements not involving area or width, or both, of the lot shall
conform to the regulations for the district in which such lot is located.
      (2)   If, in a group of two or more lots under the same ownership, any
individual lot does not meet the area and width requirements of this chapter,
the lot must not be considered as a separate parcel or land for the purpose of
sale or development. The lot must be combined with the one or more contiguous
lots so they equal one or more parcels of land, each meeting the area and width
requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Variances of area, width, and yard requirements shall be obtained
only in accordance with §
150.169(A).
   (C)   Nonconforming signs. Signs existing on the effective date of this
chapter which do not conform to the regulations set forth in this chapter shall
become a nonconforming use. Business signs on the premises of a nonconforming
building or use may be continued, however, such signs shall not be increased in
number, area, height, or illumination No sign erected before the passage of
this chapter shall be rebuilt, altered, or moved to a new location on the
affected property without being brought into compliance with the requirements
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 519.040) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.164 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   The governing body of the city shall appoint a Zoning Administrator
whose term of office shall terminate at the pleasure of the governing body.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall enforce this chapter and shall perform
the following duties:
      (1)   Issue zoning, sewage, and other permits and make and maintain
records thereof or appoint a person to otherwise do so;
      (2)   Conduct inspections of buildings and use of land to determine
compliance with the terms of this chapter;
      (3)   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter, including,
but not limited to, all maps, amendments and special uses, variances, appeals
and applications therefor;
      (4)   Ensure that the appropriate documents are filed with the County
Recorder or other appropriate official as required by law;
      (5)   Receive, file, and forward all applications for appeals, variances,
special uses, or other matters to the designated official bodies;
      (6)   Institute, in the name of the city, any appropriate actions or
proceedings against a violator as provided for;
      (7)   Serve as the Chairperson of the Planning Commission and Board of
Adjustment;
      (8)    Be responsible for taking meeting minutes or appointing a person
to otherwise do so; and
      (9)   Review and issue permits on all applications for accessory use
structures and decks that are 250 square feet or under in size and for all
fence applications.
(Prior Code, § 519.050) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003; Ord. 2018-5, passed 11-14-2018)
§ 150.165 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The City Council shall, through the passing of this chapter, provide
for the establishment of a Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment shall
consist of three members appointed by the City Council as follows: two members
of the Planning Commission, one of which shall be the Chairperson; and one
member selected by the City Council from its own membership. The Fire Chief
shall be an ex-officio member of the Board of Adjustment. The members of the
Board of Adjustment shall serve for a term of one year beginning January 1 and
until their successors are appointed. The members of the Board of Adjustment
may be paid their necessary expenses in attending the meetings of the Board and
in the conduct of the business of the Board. The Zoning Administrator shall
serve as chairperson.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for the transaction of its
business and such rules may include provisions for the giving of oaths to
witnesses and the filing of written briefs by the applicants. The Board shall
provide a public record of its proceedings, which shall include the minutes of
its meeting, its findings and the action taken on each matter heard by it,
including the final recommendation. The meeting of the Board of Adjustment
shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as the
Board in its rules of procedure may specify.
   (C)   A majority vote of two-thirds of the full Board of Adjustment shall be
required to reverse any decision of the Zoning Administrator in the
interpretation of this chapter. An appeal from the ruling of the Zoning
Administrator of the city made by the property owner or his or her agent within
30 days after the making of the order appealed from shall be considered by the
Board of Adjustment. The procedure for making such an appeal shall be as
follows: the property owner or his or her agent shall file with the Zoning
Administrator a notice of appeal stating the specific grounds upon which the
appeal is made. The Board of Adjustments shall make its recommendation by
resolution within 30 days and a copy of the resolution shall be mailed to the
applicant by the Zoning Administrator and provided to the City Council for
review.
(Prior Code, § 519.060) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.166 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The City Council shall, through the passing of this chapter, provide
for the establishment of a Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall
consist of five members. The Mayor and one member of the City Council shall
serve as ex-officio members of the Planning Commission. The members of the City
Council shall serve on the Planning Commission for their respective elected
terms of office on the Council. The five members of the Planning Commission
shall be citizens of the city who are appointed by the City Council. The term
of the appointed members shall be five years. Every attempt shall be made to
obtain a cross section of the city in appointing members to the Commission. Any
vacancy during the unexpired term of an appointed member shall be filled by the
City Council for the remainder of the term. Except as otherwise provided within
this chapter, a quorum shall consist of a simple majority of the appointed
members.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall provide assistance to the City Council
in the administration of this chapter, and the recommendation of the Planning
Commission shall be advisory in nature. Specifically, the Planning Commission
shall review, hold public hearings, and make recommendations to the City
Council on all applications for zoning amendments, conditional use permits, and
site permits, for new residential homes and commercial buildings and accessory
structures larger than 250 square feet. The Officers of the Planning Commission
shall be elected by the members of the Planning Commission at a regular meeting
thereof in January of each year. The officers shall consist of a Chairperson
and a Vice-Chairperson. The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings and
hearings of the Planning Commission and shall have the duties normally
conferred by parliamentary usage of such officers as well as any other duties
specified within this chapter. The Vice-Chairperson shall act for the
Chairperson in his or her absence. Vacancies in office of the officers of the
Planning Commission shall be filled immediately by the same procedure.
   (C)   The Planning Commission may set such rules and procedures as are
necessary for the orderly conduct of its business. Rules and procedures not
otherwise adopted or not covered by applicable law shall be governed by the
most recent edition of Robert’s Rules of Order, Newly Revised, as may be
necessary for the proper conduct of the business of the Planning Commission.
   (D)   The members of the Planning Commission may receive such compensation
for per diem and expenses as may be allowed by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 519.070) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003; Ord. 2018-5, passed 11-14-2018;
Ord. 05-2024, passed 8-7-2024)
§ 150.167 CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The City Council shall act upon all questions as they may arise in the
administration of this chapter, including the interpretation of zoning maps,
and it shall hear and decide appeals from and review any order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by an administrative official charged with
enforcing the ordinance. Such appeal may be taken by any person, firm, or
corporation aggrieved or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of a
town, municipality, county, or state.
   (B)   The City Council may reverse or affirm wholly or partly or may modify
the order, requirement, decision, or determination as in its opinion ought to
be made in the premises and to that end shall have all the powers of the
officer from whom the appeal was taken and may issue or direct the issuance of
a permit. The Council shall make written findings of fact and keep appropriate
minutes of its meetings. The reasons for the Council’s decisions may be stated.
The decision of such Council shall be final, however, any person having an
interest affected by such decision shall have the right to appeal to District
Court in the county in which the land is located.
(Prior Code, § 519.080) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.168 ZONING AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Criteria for granting amendments. The City Council may adopt
amendments to this chapter and the zoning map in relation to land uses within a
particular district or to the location of the district lines. Such amendments
shall not be issued indiscriminately, but shall only be used as a means to
reflect changes in the goals and policies of the community as reflected in the
Comprehensive Plan or changes in conditions in the city.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   An amendment to the text of this chapter may be initiated by the
City Council, the Planning Commission, or by application of a property owner.
Any amendment not initiated by the Planning Commission shall be referred to the
Planning Commission for review and may not be acted upon by the Council until
it has received the Planning Commission’s recommendations. Individuals wishing
to initiate an amendment to this chapter shall complete a zoning amendment
application form and submit it to the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   (a)   A public hearing on the rezoning application shall be held by
the Planning Commission within 30 days after the request for the zoning
amendment has been received.
         (b)   Legal notice concerning official action pursuant to this section
shall be as follows:
            1.   A notification of the date, time, and place of the hearing
shall be published in the municipality’s official newspaper at least ten days
before the hearing; and
            2.   In addition, persons who own property situated wholly or
partly within 350 feet of the affected parcel or parcels shall receive similar,
individual notifications by mail.
      (3)   The City Council must take action on the application within 60 days
following receipt of a complete application, unless the timeline has been
extended or waived in accordance with M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from
time to time. The person making the application shall be notified of the action
taken. The amendment shall be effective upon majority vote of the Council, with
the exception of an amendment changing all or part of the classification of a
district from residential to either commercial or industrial, which shall be
effective only if two-thirds of all members of the Council concur with its
passage. The City Council shall maintain records of amendments to the text and
zoning map of the ordinance.
      (4)   No application of a property owner for an amendment to the text of
the ordinance or the zoning map shall be considered by the Planning Commission
within the one year period following a denial of such request, except the
Planning Commission may permit a new application, if, in the opinion of the
Planning Commission, new evidence or a change of circumstances warrant it.
      (5)   To defray administrative costs including map changes, publication
expenses, and filing fees for the purpose of processing requests for an
amendment to this chapter, the applicable fee shall be paid by the petitioner.
The applicable fee for a zoning ordinance amendment shall be established by the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 519.090) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.169 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Criteria for granting conditional use permits.
      (1)   In granting a conditional use permit, the City Council shall
consider the advice and recommendations of the Planning Commission and the
effect of the proposed use upon the health, safety, and general welfare of
occupants of surrounding lands.
      (2)   Among other things, the City Council may make the following
findings where applicable:
         (a)   The conditional use will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already
permitted, nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the
immediate vicinity;
         (b)   The establishment of the conditional use will not impede the
normal and orderly development and improvement of surrounding vacant property
for uses predominant in the area;
         (c)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, and other necessary
facilities have been or are being provided;
         (d)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide
sufficient off-street parking and loading space to serve the proposed use;
         (e)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide or
control offensive odor, fumes, dust, noise, and vibration so that none of these
will constitute a nuisance and to control lighted signs and other lights in
such a manner that no disturbance to neighboring properties will result;
         (f)   The developer shall submit a time schedule for completion of the
project;
         (g)   The use, in the opinion of the City Council, is reasonably
related to the overall needs of the city and to the existing land use;
         (h)   The use is consistent with the purposes of the zoning code and
the purposes of the zoning district in which the applicant intends to locate
the proposed use;
         (i)   The use is not in conflict with the Comprehensive Plan of the
city;
         (j)   The use will not cause traffic hazard or congestion; and
         (k)   Existing businesses nearby will not be adversely affected
because of curtailment of customer trade brought about by intrusion of noise,
glare, or general unsightliness.
   (B)   Additional conditions.
      (1)   In permitting a new conditional use or the alteration of an
existing conditional use, the Planning Commission may impose, in addition to
these standards and requirements expressly specified by this chapter,
additional conditions which the Planning Commission considers necessary to
protect the best interest of the surrounding area or the city as a whole.
      (2)   The conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Increasing the required lot size or yard dimension;
         (b)   Limiting the height, size, or location of the buildings;
         (c)   Controlling the location and number of vehicle access points;
         (d)   Increasing the street width;
         (e)   Increasing the number of required off-street parking spaces;
         (f)   Limiting the number, size, location, or lighting of signs;
         (g)   Requiring diking, fencing, screening, landscaping, or other
facilities to protect adjacent or nearby property;
         (h)   Designating sites for open space; and
         (i)   Providing the appropriate area for snow removal and snow
storage.
   (C)   Procedures.
      (1)   Generally. The person applying for a conditional use permit shall
fill out and submit to the Zoning Administrator a conditional use application
form.
      (2)   Information requirement. The information required for all
conditional use permits generally consists of the following items, and shall be
submitted when requested by the city:
         (a)   Site development plan.
            1.   Location of all buildings on lots including both existing and
proposed structures;
            2.   Location of all adjacent buildings located within 350 feet of
the exterior boundaries of the property in question;
            3.   Location and number of existing and proposed parking spaces;
            4.   Vehicular circulation;
            5.   Architectural elevations (type and materials used in all
external surfaces);
            6.   Location and type of all proposed lights; and
            7.   Curb cuts, driveways, number of parking spaces.
         (b)   Dimension plan.
            1.   Lot dimensions and area;
            2.   Dimensions of proposed and existing structures;
            3.   Typical floor plan and typical room plan;
            4.   Setbacks of all buildings located on property in question;
            5.   Proposed setbacks; and
            6.   Sanitary sewer and water plan with estimated use per day.
         (c)   Grading plan.
            1.   Existing contour;
            2.   Proposed grading elevations;
            3.   Drainage configuration;
            4.   Storm sewer catch basins and invert elevations;
            5.   Spot elevations; and
            6.   Proposed road profile.
         (d)   Landscape plan.
            1.   Location of all existing trees, type, diameter, and which
trees will be removed;
            2.   Location, type, and diameter of all proposed plantings; and
            3.   Location and material used for all screening devices.
         (e)   Legal description. Legal description of property under
consideration; and
         (f)   Proof of ownership. Proof of ownership of the land for which a
conditional use permit is requested.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall refer the application to the
Planning Commission for review.
      (4)   (a)   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the
proposal.
         (b)   The legal notice concerning official action pursuant to this
section shall be as follows:
            1.   A notification of the date, time, and place of the hearing
shall be published in the municipality’s official newspaper at least ten days
before the hearing; and
            2.   In addition, persons who own property situated wholly or
partly within 350 feet of the affected parcel or parcels shall receive similar,
individual notifications by mail.
      (5)   The petitioner or his or her representative may appear before the
Planning Commission in order to answer questions concerning the proposed
conditional use.
      (6)   The report of the Planning Commission shall be placed on the agenda
of the City Council at its next regular meeting following referral from the
Planning Commission, but not later than 60 days after the applicant has
submitted a complete application.
      (7)   The City Council must take action on the application within 60 days
after receipt of a complete application. The City Council, in its discretion,
may hold an additional public hearing on the conditional use permit. The City
Council may impose conditions (including time limits) it considers necessary to
protect the public health, safety and welfare, and such conditions may include
a time limit for the use to exist or operate.
   (D)   Re-application. No application for a conditional use permit shall be
resubmitted for a period of six months from the date of said order of denial.
   (E)   Periodic review. If a time limit or periodic review is included as a
condition by which a conditional use permit is granted, the conditional use
permit may be reviewed at a public hearing with notice of said hearing
published at least ten days prior to the review. It shall be the responsibility
of the Zoning Administrator to schedule such public hearings, and the owner of
land having a conditional use permit shall not be required to pay a fee for
said review. A public hearing for annual review of conditional use permits may
be granted at the discretion of the City Council.
   (F)   Compliance. In the event that the applicant violates any of the
conditions set forth in this permit, the City Council shall have the authority
to revoke the conditional use permit.
   (G)   Expiration. Conditional use permits shall expire upon the change of
ownership of a parcel or if they have not been initiated within one year of
date of issuance.
   (H)   Records. A record and appropriate minutes shall be prepared by the
Planning Commission from the public hearing on the conditional use permit
application. Specific findings of fact shall be made in addition to the
recommendations of the Planning Commission.
   (I)   Fees. To defray administrative costs for processing a conditional use
permit, the applicable fee shall be paid by the applicant. The applicable fee
shall be set by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 519.100) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.170 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Criteria for granting variances.
      (1)   A variance to the provision of this chapter may be issued to
provide relief to the landowner in those zones where the ordinance imposes
practical difficulties to the property owner in the use of his or her land. No
use variances may be issued.
      (2)   A variance may be granted only in the event that the following
circumstances exist:
         (a)   Exceptional or extraordinary circumstances apply to the property
which do not apply generally to other properties in the same zone or vicinity
and result from lot size or shape, topography, or other circumstances over
which the owners of property since enactment of this chapter have had no
control;
         (b)   The literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of reasonable use of the property commonly enjoyed
by other properties in the same district under the terms of this chapter;
         (c)   The special conditions or circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant;
         (d)   Granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant
any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to owners of other lands,
structures, or buildings in the same district;
         (e)   The variance requested is the minimum variance which would
alleviate the practical difficulty;
         (f)   The variance would not be materially detrimental to the purposes
of this chapter, or to property in the same zone; and
         (g)   The variance will not alter the essential character of the
neighborhood.
      (3)   Economic conditions alone shall not be considered a practical
difficulty.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   The person applying for a variance shall fill out and submit to the
Zoning Administrator a variance request form containing the following
information:
         (a)   Description of the site (legal and address);
         (b)   Site plan showing parcel and building dimensions;
         (c)   Location of all buildings and their square footage measurements;
         (d)   Curb cuts, driveways, sidewalks, parking spaces, and off-street
loading areas;
         (e)   Landscape and screening plans;
         (f)   Water, sanitary sewer, and stormwater plans; and
         (g)   Any additional information reasonably requested by the Zoning
Administrator or Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall refer the application to the Board
of Adjustment for review.
      (3)   (a)   The Board of Adjustment shall hold a public hearing on the
proposal.
         (b)   Legal notice concerning official action pursuant to this section
shall be as follows:
            1.   A notification of the date, time, and place of the hearing
shall be published in the municipality’s official newspaper at least ten days
before the hearing; and
            2.   In addition, persons who own property situated wholly or
partly within 350 feet of the affected parcel or parcels shall receive similar,
individual notifications by mail.
      (4)   The petitioner or his or her representative shall appear before the
Board of Adjustment in order to answer questions concerning the proposed
variance.
      (5)   The Board of Adjustment shall make findings of fact and recommend
approval or denial of the request. The Board’s recommendation shall be
presented to the City Council.
      (6)   Upon receiving a recommendation from the Board of Adjustment, the
City Clerk/Treasurer or Zoning Administrator shall place the recommendation on
the agenda for the next regular City Council meeting. Such recommendations
shall be made a part of the permanent written record of the City Council
meeting.
      (7)   The City Council shall review the application and may at its option
conduct a public hearing on the request.
      (8)   The Council shall make finding of fact and approve or deny a
request for variance within 60 days after receipt of the complete application.
      (9)   A variance of this chapter shall require a four-fifths vote of the
Council.
      (10)   If it grants the variance, the Council may impose conditions
(including time limits) it considers necessary to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare and such conditions may include a time limit for the use to
exist or operate.
   (C)   Lapse of variance. Variance permits shall expire if they have not been
implemented within one year after the date of issuance.
   (D)   Variance. No variance shall be granted which would allow any use that
is prohibited in the zoning district in which the subject property is located.
   (E)   Fees. To defray the administrative costs of processing requests for
variances, the applicable fee shall be paid by the applicant. The applicable
fee is in addition to the regular zoning permit. Fees for site permits and
variance applications shall be established by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 519.110) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003)
§ 150.171 SITE PERMITS.
   For the purposes of enforcing this chapter, a zoning permit shall be
required of all persons intending to erect, expand, change the usage of, or
move any building.
   (A)   Persons requesting a zoning permit or building permit shall fill out a
zoning permit form available from the Zoning Administrator or City Clerk/
Treasurer. A site plan must be submitted by the applicant. Such site plan shall
show the proposed location and arrangement of the building or buildings on the
site, the parking spaces required, proposed exterior materials, proposed
landscaping, all special requirements such as fencing, drainage, proposed
lighting, methods of ingress and egress, trash enclosures, and whatever other
information that the Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission may from time
to time require. No building permit shall be approved unless said site plan
conforms to the conditions listed within this chapter and the use is consistent
with the district.
   (B)   If the proposed development involves a zoning amendment, variance, or
conditional use permit, the application, together with a zoning permit, shall
be submitted either to the Planning Commission or the Board of Adjustment for
review and appropriate action according to the procedures set forth in this
chapter.
   (C)   In such cases where fences are being erected or structures are being
constructed, altered, or enlarged within questionable distances of the
applicable setbacks in districts, the City Planning Commission may require the
applicant (at the applicant’s expense) to have the lot surveyed and staked in
order to ensure compliance with the regulations established by the city.
   (D)   Zoning permits shall expire one year after the date of issuance. All
exterior construction and landscaping must be completed within one year after
the date of issuance except permanent surfacing of private driveways must be
completed within five years from the date of the initial permit issuance. A
phased zoning permit may be issued to an applicant that requires completion of
the foundation of a structure fire, prior to any additional authorizations or
permits for the completion of a structure to be placed above the foundation.
   (E)   The City Council shall set the fees from time to time for all zoning
permits, sewer permits, variance applications, conditional use applications,
pumping permits, installer’s permits, zoning change applications, mobile home
park applications, and subdivision plats.
(Prior Code, § 519.120) (Ord. passed 10-8-2003; Ord. 2024-03, passed 4-3-2024)
APPENDIX: ZONING MAP
Note: To view the Zoning Map in PDF, click HERE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2ed6621e961c9569e255cba3f64952c3f0cec3d6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1173.png]
 
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Title
   
151.002   Purpose
   
151.003   Compliance
   
151.004   Interpretation of standards
   
151.005   Amendments
   
151.006   Violations
   
151.007   Administrative subdivision requirements
   
151.008   Premature subdivisions
Pre-Application Requirements
   
151.020   Pre-application conference
   
151.021   Sketch plan
Preliminary Plat
   
151.035   Procedure
   
151.036   Preliminary plat
   
151.037   Duration of approval
Final Plat
   
151.050   Procedure
   
151.051   Final plat
   
151.052   Recording
   
151.053   Supplementary documents
   
151.054   Subdivision contract
   
151.055   Participation by the city
Design Standards
   
151.070   Planned development
   
151.071   Parks, open space, and public use
   
151.072   Natural features
   
151.073   Streets, sidewalks, and/or trails
   
151.074   Blocks
   
151.075   Lots
   
151.076   Easements
   
151.077   Water and sewer systems
   
151.078   Variances
Improvements
   
151.090   General improvements
   
151.091   Monuments and markers
   
151.092   Streets
   
151.093   Storm drainage
   
151.094   Water supply
   
151.095   Sewers
   
151.096   Utilities
   
151.097   Trees
   
151.098   Street signs
   
151.099   Inspection
   
151.100   Acceptance
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Eden Valley Subdivision
Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 531.010)
§ 151.002 PURPOSE.
   These regulations are adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To assist the orderly, efficient, and integrated development of the
city in compliance with the city’s Comprehensive Plan;
   (B)   To promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the
residents of the city; and
   (C)   To secure equitable handling of all subdivision plans by providing
uniform minimum standards and procedures.
(Prior Code, § 531.020)
§ 151.003 COMPLIANCE.
   Hereafter, no lot in a subdivision may be sold, no permit to erect or alter
any building upon land in a subdivision may be issued, and no building may be
erected in a subdivision, unless and until a subdivision plat has been approved
and recorded, and until the improvements within the plat as set forth in the
development agreement have either been constructed or guaranteed as herein
provided.
(Prior Code, § 531.030)
§ 151.004 INTERPRETATION OF STANDARDS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements.
Where this chapter imposes a greater restriction than is imposed or required by
other provisions of law or by other rules, regulations, or ordinances, the
provisions of this chapter shall control.
(Prior Code, § 531.040)
§ 151.005 AMENDMENTS.
   The City Council may introduce and consider amendments to the ordinance as
proposed by a Council member, by the Planning Commission, or by a petition of a
person residing or owning property within the city.
(Prior Code, § 531.060)
§ 151.006 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Sale of lots from unrecorded plats. It is unlawful for any person to
sell, trade, or otherwise convey or offer to sell, trade, or otherwise convey
any lot or parcel of land as a part of, or in conformity with, any plan, plat,
or replat of any subdivision or area located within the jurisdiction of this
chapter unless said plan, plat, or replat shall have first been recorded in the
office of the County Recorder or waived as provided for in this chapter.
   (B)   Receiving or recording unapproved plats. It is unlawful for any person
to receive or record in any public office any plans, plats, or replats of land
laid out in building lots and street rights-of-way, alleys, or other portions
of the same intended to be dedicated to public or private use, or for the use
of purchasers or owners of lots fronting on or adjacent thereto, and located
within the city, unless the same shall bear thereon, by endorsement or
otherwise, the review of the Planning and Zoning Commission and the approval of
the City Council.
   (C)   Misrepresentation as to construction, supervision, or inspection of
improvements. It is unlawful for any person, owning an addition or subdivision
of land within the city, to represent that any improvements upon any of the
street rights-of-way, alley, or avenues of said addition or subdivision, or any
utility in said addition or subdivision have been constructed according to the
plans and specifications approved by the City Council, or have been supervised
or inspected by the city, when such improvements have not been so constructed,
supervised, or inspected.
(Prior Code, § 531.070) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.007 ADMINISTRATIVE SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application. The following applications shall be administrative
subdivisions:
      (1)   Divisions of land where the division is to permit the adding of a
parcel of land to an abutting lot or to create two lots and the newly created
property line will not cause the land or any structure to be in violation of
this chapter, the Comprehensive Plan, or
Ch. 150; or
      (2)   The subdivision of base lots containing two-family, townhouse, or
condominium dwellings which are part of a recorded plat where the division is
to permit individual private ownership of a single- dwelling unit within such a
structure and the newly created property lines will not cause any of the unit
lots or the structures to be in violation of this chapter, the Comprehensive
Plan, or
Ch. 150.
   (B)   Data required. Completed application form and fee;
   (C)   Requirements. The following requirements must be met prior to
approval.
      (1)   The administrative subdivision must comply with the design and
dedication requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   All lots must have direct access onto a public street.
   (D)   Processing. Following review and approval by the Planning Commission,
the City Clerk/Treasurer shall, within ten days, certify that the platting
requirements of this chapter do not apply to the requested land division.
(Prior Code, § 531.080)
§ 151.008 PREMATURE SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Generally. Any preliminary plat of a proposed subdivision deemed
premature for development shall be denied by the City Council.
   (B)   Conditions establishing premature subdivisions. A subdivision may be
deemed premature should any of the conditions set forth in the provisions which
follow exist.
      (1)   Lack of adequate water supply. A proposed subdivision shall be
deemed to lack an adequate water supply if the proposed subdivision, if
developed to its maximum permissible density, does not have adequate sources of
water to serve the proposed subdivision without causing an unreasonable
depreciation of existing water supplies for surrounding areas.
      (2)   Lack of adequate waste disposal systems. A proposed subdivision
shall be deemed to lack adequate waste disposal systems if there is inadequate
sewer capacity in the present system to support the subdivision if developed to
its maximum permissible density after reasonable sewer capacity is reserved for
schools, planned public facilities, and commercial and industrial development
projected for the next five years. Expected wastewater generation rates
applicable to a proposed subdivision shall be based on generally accepted
generation computation formulas as assigned by the City Engineer.
      (3)   Inconsistency with Comprehensive Plan. A subdivision shall be
deemed premature if it is found to be inconsistent with the purposes,
objectives, and recommendations of the duly adopted Comprehensive Plan of the
city, as may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Burden of establishing. The burden shall be upon the applicant to show
that the proposed subdivision is not premature.
(Prior Code, § 531.090)
PRE-APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.020 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   (A)   A person or corporation desiring approval of a plat of a subdivision
shall appear before the Planning Commission to discuss the proposal before
filing an application for preliminary plat approval. No fee or formal
application is required for this meeting.
   (B)   The subdivider shall be prepared to discuss the details of his or her
proposed subdivision, including such items as the proposed use, existing
features of the area, existing covenants, land characteristics, availability of
community facilities and utilities, size of development, play areas or public
areas, proposed protective covenants, proposed utilities, and street
improvements. The subdivider shall submit a sketch plan as outlined in §
151.021.
   (C)   The Planning Commission will respond to questions from the subdivider,
will review procedures and requirements for platting, and may suggest changes
to the plan.
(Prior Code, § 532.010)
§ 151.021 SKETCH PLAN.
   The subdivider shall prepare a sketch plan to present to the Planning
Commission at the pre-application conference. This plan may be drawn as a
freehand sketch and does not require precise dimensions or any special sheet
size. This sketch plan may be used to show the Planning Commission the
location, proposed street and lot layout, and any other significant features of
the proposed subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 532.020)
PRELIMINARY PLAT
§ 151.035 PROCEDURE.
   After the pre-application conference, the subdivider shall submit an
application for approval of a preliminary plat to the Zoning Administrator.
   (A)   The application shall be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   Three copies of all maps and data and one set of 11-inch by 17-inch
plans as set forth in §
151.051; and
      (2)   A filing fee as established by the City Council.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall send one copy each of the maps and data
sheets submitted with the application to the Engineer, the City Council
members, and the Planning Commission. The Engineer shall report any findings to
the Planning Commission within 20 days.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall set a public hearing on the preliminary
plat, the time, and place to be published once in the official newspaper at
least ten days before the day of its hearing.
   (D)   (1)   The Planning Commission shall conduct the hearing, review the
application and Engineer’s report and shall, within 30 days of application
submittal, approve the preliminary plat proposed in the application subject to
receipt of an acceptable final plat as set forth in this chapter, or shall,
conditionally approve or disapprove the preliminary plat setting forth the
reasons and providing the subdivider with a copy, if the preliminary plat is
disapproved, the subdivider may submit a new preliminary plat.
      (2)   If action is not taken by the Council within the prescribed 60-day
period, the preliminary plat shall be deemed preliminarily approved.
(Prior Code, § 533.010)
§ 151.036 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The following maps and data shall be submitted with the application
for preliminary plat approval. These maps and data may be on separate sheets or
combined on one sheet, depending on the size and complexity of the proposed
subdivision.
   (B)   The overall size of the sheets shall be 24 inches by 36 inches (60 cm
by 90 cm). An 11-inch by 17-inch reduced print of each plan and plat shall also
be submitted.
      (1)   A location map of the proposed subdivision showing:
         (a)   Location within the city;
         (b)   Zoning of the tract and adjacent properties; and
         (c)   Existing related streets including the distance therefrom.
      (2)   A preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision and all lands within
300 feet of its boundaries drawn at a scale no smaller than 100 feet to each
inch showing:
         (a)   Subdivision name;
         (b)   Names and addresses of owner and subdivider and the name of the
engineer or surveyor who prepared the plan;
         (c)   Contours of the site at vertical intervals of two feet if the
general slope is less than 10% and at intervals of five feet if the general
slope is greater than 10%;
         (d)   Character and location of natural or artificial features
existing on the land which would affect the design of the subdivision, such as
wooded areas, streams, direction, and gradient of ground slope, embankments,
retaining walls, buildings, or nonresidential usage of land;
         (e)   A mailing list of all property owners within 350 feet adjacent
to the subdivision;
         (f)   Street pattern, including the names (which shall not duplicate
existing streets in the city unless, it is an extension of an existing street),
widths of rights-of-way of streets, widths of easements for alleys;
         (g)   Existing and proposed streets, highways, and rights-of-way,
including dedicated widths, roadway widths, types, and widths of pavements,
curbs, and sidewalks;
         (h)   Layouts of lots, including dimensions, numbers, building set
back lines, or front yard lines;
         (i)   Utility locations of sanitary sewers, storm sewers, drainage
facilities, or water lines;
         (j)   Existing and proposed easements, including widths and purposes;
         (k)   Tract boundary lines by calculated distances and bearings;
         (l)   Parcels of land to be dedicated or served for schools, parks,
playgrounds, or other public or community use;
         (m)   Areas subject to periodic overflow of flood or stormwater; and
         (n)   Title, legend, notes graphic scale, north point, and date.
      (3)   A feasibility study for the proposed subdivision indicating: a
report on the feasibility of connection to an existing storm sewer, water, and
sanitary sewage system, including distances to the nearest public sewer, water
and storm sewer, service load of the subdivision, and capacity of treatment
plants;
      (4)   A draft of the protective covenants or private restrictions, if
available, to be incorporated in the final subdivision plat.
(Prior Code, § 533.020)
§ 151.037 DURATION OF APPROVAL.
   Unless extended by the City Council, the preliminary plat approval shall
exist for a period of one year from the date of approval by the Council. If
final plat requirements are not met within that time and approval granted by
the Council, the preliminary plat approval shall be vacated and the developer
must recommence the preliminary plat process and obtain all necessary approvals
before any final plat will be considered.
(Prior Code, § 533.030)
FINAL PLAT
§ 151.050 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The final plat application shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Five prints as set forth in §
151.051, and one 11-inch by 17-inch reproducible print of the plat; and
      (2)   A filing fee as established by the City Council.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall send copies of the final plat to the
City Planning Commission for review. If the Planning Commission finds that the
final plat is in accordance with the requirements of these Regulations, the
Chairperson or other authorized member shall endorse the final plat and submit
it to the Council within 30 days.
   (C)   The Council approves the final plat, the Mayor or other authorized
member shall endorse the final plat and return it to the subdivider. If
disapproved, the Council shall attach to the original of the final plat a
statement of the reasons for such action and return it to the subdivider.
Failure of the Council to act on the final plat within 60 days of its
acceptance by the Zoning Administrator will be recorded as approved.
(Prior Code, § 534.010)
§ 151.051 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The final plat shall be drawn at a scale no smaller than 100 feet to
one inch. The overall size of the sheets shall be as required by the County
Recorder. An 11-inch by 17-inch reduced print of each final plat sheet shall
also be submitted.
   (B)   The final plat shall show:
      (1)   Subdivision name, name, and address of owner and subdivider, legal
description of the property, graphic scale, north point, date, and certificate
of approval of Planning Commission and Council;
      (2)   Survey data with certification by a registered professional
engineer or land surveyor, showing:
         (a)   Calculated distances and bearings of the subdivision boundaries,
lots, utility easements, streets, alleys, building set back lines, and parcels
of reserved or dedicated land for community purposes;
         (b)   Location and distances to the nearest established street corners
or official monuments, and of the street intersecting the boundaries of the
subdivision;
         (c)   Location, type, material, and size of monuments;
         (d)   Complete curve data; and
         (e)   Lot numbers and street names.
      (3)   Limitations of easements and restrictions which will run with the
land and become covenants in the deeds for lots; and
      (4)   Certificate of dedication of streets and other public property.
   (E)   The final plat submitted to the city shall be accompanied by a
certified check or money order in an amount as established by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 534.020)
§ 151.052 RECORDING.
   The subdivider shall present a copy of the approved final plat to the County
Recorder. After the plat is duly recorded, a certified copy of the recorded
plat shall be presented to the Clerk/Treasurer within 180 days from the date of
final plat approval.
(Prior Code, § 534.030)
§ 151.053 SUPPLEMENTARY DOCUMENTS.
   The following shall also be provided to the city:
   (A)   A recorded mylar copy of the subdivision as approved by the city;
   (B)   A certified copy of the plat evidencing filing of the plat with the
county within 180 days after approval by the city. No building permits shall be
approved for construction of any structure on any lot in said plat until the
plat has been recorded;
   (C)   A complete set of as-built construction drawings for any public
improvements constructed in the subdivision shall be furnished to the city as
soon as the construction is complete and approved by the city;
   (D)   Copies of any protective or restrictive covenants affecting the
subdivision or any part thereof; and
   (E)   Upon adoption and filing of a final plat, the city shall prepare a
street address map.
(Prior Code, § 534.040)
§ 151.054 SUBDIVISION CONTRACT.
   Prior to the construction of any improvements within a plat, the subdivider/
owner/developer shall enter into a contract for development for the new
subdivision which contains satisfactory assurance that he or she will provide
the necessary improvements as approved by the City Council and in compliance
with all sections of this chapter. The owner or subdivider, if privately
financing the project, shall deposit with the city an amount agreed to in the
development agreement, either in cash, a letter of credit, or an indemnity
bond, with sureties satisfactory to the city, conditioned upon the payment of
all expenses incurred by the city for engineering and legal fees and other
expense in connection with the making of such improvement.
(Prior Code, § 534.050)
§ 151.055 PARTICIPATION BY THE CITY.
   The city may elect to install any, all, or none of the required
improvements. The terms of these arrangements shall be specified in the
subdivision contract. In the event that the developer petitions the city for
the installation of improvements as provided for in M.S. Ch. 429, as it may be
amended from time to time, the city will take additional measures within the
subdivision contract (also known as “development agreement”) to protect the
financial interests of the community.
(Prior Code, § 534.060)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 151.070 PLANNED DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The design standards of this chapter may be modified by the Council in
the case of a plan utilizing a concept of clustered or non-standard development
which meets the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   The planned development provision is intended to encourage original
and imaginative subdivision design which preserves the natural amenities of the
side and provides for the general welfare of the city.
      (1)   The plan shall be consistent with the spirit and intent of this
chapter.
      (2)   The plan shall conform to the Planned Unit Development District
requirements of Ch. 150.
      (3)   Properties adjacent to the plan shall not be adversely affected.
(Prior Code, § 535.010)
§ 151.071 PARKS, OPEN SPACE, AND PUBLIC USE.
   (A)   Where a proposed park, playground, school site, or other public site
shown on an adopted Comprehensive Plan or official map is encompassed in part
or in whole by a boundary of a proposed subdivision, and such public ground
shall be shown as reserved land on the preliminary plat to allow the Council,
Board of Education, or county and state agency the opportunity to consider and
take action toward acquisition of such public ground or park or school site by
dedications, purchase, or other means prior to approval of the final plat.
   (B)   (1)   It is declared general policy that in all new subdivisions, 5%
of the gross area, or an amount of gross area as set by Council resolution, of
all property subdivided shall be dedicated for parks, playgrounds, or other
public use. Such dedicated area shall be in addition to the property dedicated
for streets, alleys, waterways, pedestrian ways, or other public ways.
      (2)   No areas may be dedicated as parks, playgrounds, or public lands
until such areas have been approved for the purpose to which they are to be
dedicated. The park land shall be graded to the contours set forth in the
preliminary plat.
      (3)   The developer shall provide a minimum of three inches of topsoil
over the entire park area and the area shall be seeded with a type of seed
approved by the city. The financial guarantees by the developer to the city
shall be in effect at least until such time that the park land is graded and
seeded.
   (C)   At least 50% of the gross area dedicated for parks, open space, or
public use shall be suitable for active recreation use as determined by Council
resolution.
   (D)   (1)   When the subdivision is small or does not include a park or
public area shown on the Comprehensive Plan, or, if in the judgment of the
Council the area proposed to be dedicated is not suitable or desirable for
park/playground purposes because of location, size, or other reason, the
Council may require, in lieu of land dedication, a payment to the municipality
of a sum equal to 5% of the current value of the land to be subdivided or a fee
as set by Council resolution.
      (2)   The current land value shall be the value of the land at its
highest and best use when ready to be platted but not including utility costs.
      (3)   The City Council and/or its agents shall have the authority to make
the final determination of the value of the land for purposes of park
dedication.
      (4)   If requested, the City Council shall provide the developer or
landowner with the methodology used to calculate the value of the land.
   (E)   (1)   Such dedication of land for public use shall be without
restrictions or reservations and shall be transferred to the city by deed or by
plat.
      (2)   Money given to the city in lieu of land shall be used by the city
only for acquiring, developing, maintaining, or enhancing public park land.
(Prior Code, § 535.020)
§ 151.072 NATURAL FEATURES.
   Existing, natural features which would add value to the subdivision and the
city such as trees, steep slopes, watercourses, historic spots, and similar
irreplaceable assets shall be preserved, insofar as possible, through
harmonious design of the subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 535.030)
§ 151.073 STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND/OR TRAILS.
   The City Council shall not approve any plat unless all streets shown thereon
shall be of sufficient width and shall be so located as to accommodate the
probable volume of traffic thereon, afford adequate light and air, facilitate
fire protection, provide access of firefighting equipment to buildings, provide
ease of maintenance, and provide a coordinated system of streets conforming to
the city street plan.
   (A)   Access upon a state or federal highway shall meet state and federal
access requirements.
   (B)   Local streets shall be so planned as to continue and promote the grid
pattern of development previously established in the city.
   (C)   Wherever there exists a dedicated or platted portion of a street or
alley along a boundary of the tract being subdivided, the remainder of said
street or alley, to the prescribed width, shall be platted within the proposed
subdivision.
   (D)   Half streets shall not be provided, except where it is essential to
the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations, or where it becomes necessary to acquire the
remaining half by condemnation so it may be approved in the public interest.
   (E)   Dead-end streets shall be prohibited unless provided with a turnaround
or cul-de-sac arrangement.
   (F)   Cul-de-sacs shall normally not be longer than 600 feet including a
turnaround which shall be provided at the closed end with an outside curb
radius of not less than 50 feet. The maximum grade of the turnaround portion of
the cul-de-sac shall be 5%.
   (G)   Alleys may not be provided in residential districts but shall be
included in commercial and industrial areas where needed for loading and
unloading or access purposes.
   (H)   The minimum distance between centerlines of parallel or approximately
parallel streets intersecting a cross street from opposite directions shall be
125 feet.
   (I)   Intersections of more than two streets at one point shall be avoided.
   (J)   Right-of-way requirements may be increased for specific thoroughfares
if existing or anticipated traffic flow warrants it, or if drainage casements
parallel such thoroughfares. Such increased width will be set by the City
Council under the advisement of the Planning Commission and the City Engineer.
   (K)   Minimum right-of-way widths, paving widths, angle of intersections,
curb radius, distances along sides of sight triangles, horizontal alignments,
vertical alignments, as well as maximum grades shall be in accordance with the
following table.
 Regional Streets Collector Local Streets Cul-de Sacs Frontage Road Alleys
                  Streets
             Regional   Collector  Local      Cul-de Sacs Frontage   Alleys
             Streets    Streets    Streets                Road
Grades for
25 feet      3%         3%         3%         3%          3%         3%
before
intersection
Horizontal
alignment
(minimum     600 feet   400 feet   200 feet   100 feet    600 feet   100 feet
radii of
centerline)
Maximum      8%         12%        12%        12%         12%        12%
grade
Minimum
angle for    90 degrees 80 degrees 70 degrees 70 degrees  90 degrees 70 degrees
intersection
Minimum curb 35 feet    25 feet    15 feet    15 feet     35 feet    5 feet
radius
Paving width 52 feet    44 feet    36 feet    32 feet     30 feet    20 feet
Right-of-way 100 feet   70 feet    60 feet    50 feet     45 feet    33 feet
width
Vertical
curves
(minimum     500 feet   350 feet   200 feet   100 feet    500 feet   100 feet
sight
distance)
 
   (L)   Sidewalk/trail minimum standards shall be as follows.
 
Class of Street Sidewalk Width (feet) Trail Width ROW/Paved
Arterial        5                     20/8
Collector       5                     15/8
Local/minor     5                     15/8
 
(Prior Code, § 535.040)
§ 151.074 BLOCKS.
   Blocks shall ordinarily not exceed 1,000 feet in length. Where it is
necessary for blocks to exceed the length, pedestrian ways and/or easements, at
least eight feet in width, may be required near the center of the block.
(Prior Code, § 535.050)
§ 151.075 LOTS.
   Lot sizes shall conform with the requirements of
Ch. 150 and the lots shall be designed in accordance with the following design
standards.
   (A)   Every lot shall be provided with access adequate for the use of public
safety vehicles and other public and private purposes and shall be served by a
public or private street system, improved in accordance with this chapter and
connected to the general street system.
   (B)   Side lines of lots shall be approximately right angles to straight
streets and on radial lines on curved streets. Some variation from this rule is
permissible, but pointed or very irregular lots shall be avoided.
   (C)   Double frontage lots should be avoided.
   (D)   When a tract is subdivided into larger than required building lots and
there is no covenant preventing resubdivision of the lots, such lots or parcels
shall be so arranged as to permit a logical location and opening of future
streets and resubdividing, with provision for adequate utility connections for
each subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 535.060)
§ 151.076 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Drainage. Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, there
shall be provided a drainage way, channel, or drainage right-of-way conforming
substantially with the lines of such watercourse, together with such further
width of construction of both, as will be adequate for stormwater runoff. All
drainage easements shall be so identified on the plat.
   (B)   Public trails/walkways. In addition to other open space, dedication of
easement to provide connections to public trails will be required where shown
on a Comprehensive Plan. Where deemed essential to provide circulation, or
access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation and other
community facilities, pedestrian easements with rights-of-way widths of not
less than ten feet shall be required.
   (C)   Utilities. Easements at least ten feet wide, centered on front and
rear lot lines, shall be provided for all utilities. In residential areas, five
feet wide easements shall be provided on the side lot lines. All easements
shall have continuity of alignment from block to block. At deflection points,
easements for pole-line anchors shall be provided where necessary.
(Prior Code, § 535.070)
§ 151.077 WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS.
   The water supply and sewage disposal systems for the subdivision shall meet
the design standards and requirements of the State Department of Health and
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
(Prior Code, § 535.080)
§ 151.078 VARIANCES.
   The Council may grant a variance upon receiving a report from the Planning
Commission in any particular case where the subdivider can show that by reason
of exceptional topography or other physical conditions, the strict compliance
with these regulations could cause unnecessary hardship. Application for such a
variance shall be made in writing by the subdivider at the time the preliminary
plat is filed with the Clerk/Treasurer. A variance thus granted shall be
recorded in resolution form entered in the minutes of the Council setting forth
the reasons which justified the action.
(Prior Code, § 535.090)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 151.090 GENERAL IMPROVEMENTS.
   All of the required improvements specified in this subchapter shall be
constructed in accordance with the city’s Standards for Construction and all
other applicable city, county, and state regulations.
(Prior Code, § 536.010)
§ 151.091 MONUMENTS AND MARKERS.
   Monuments shall be set at the intersection of all lines forming angles in
the boundary of the subdivision. Markers shall be set at the beginning and
ending of all curves along street property lines; at all points where lot lines
intersect curves, either front or rear; at all angles-in property lines of lots
and at all other lot corners.
(Prior Code, § 536.020)
§ 151.092 STREETS.
   The streets shall be graded to the grades and dimensions shown on plans and
profiles and approved by the Council and shall include the following
improvements.
   (A)   Suitable drainage structures, culverts, storm sewers, ditches, and
related installations shall be provided to ensure adequate drainage of all
points along the streets.
   (B)   Concrete curbs and gutters shall be required on all streets.
   (C)   The base and sub-base material thickness shall be determined by the
City Engineer.
   (D)   Pavement shall be required on all streets in accordance with the
requirements of the City Engineer.
   (E)   Street shoulders shall be constructed which are uniformly and
thoroughly compacted by rolling and level with the tops of curbs.
(Prior Code, § 536.030)
§ 151.093 STORM DRAINAGE.
   The construction of a storm drainage system shall conform to the following
requirements.
   (A)   Drainage ditches or channels shall have a minimum gradient of 1% where
terrain permits.
   (B)   Open watercourses shall have adequate capacity and erosion control to
ensure safe and healthful disposal of stormwater.
   (C)   When top soil has been removed from the surface of a lot on a slope
where erosion will cause a displacement of loose material, the subdivider shall
be required to seed or provide other means to prevent the wash from damaging
adjacent property or accumulating on street surfaces.
(Prior Code, § 536.040)
§ 151.094 WATER SUPPLY.
   The subdivider shall connect to the public water supply and construct a
system of water mains with a connection for each lot.
   (A)   Where public water is not available, as determined by the City
Council, the subdivider shall supply acceptable evidence of the availability of
water. The subdivider may be required to make one or more test wells in the
area to be platted if such evidence is deemed not acceptable. Copies of well
logs from said test wells which are obtained shall include the name and address
of the well driller and shall be submitted with the plan to the Council.
   (B)   If a private water supply is permitted, individual private wells shall
meet the requirements of the applicable county and the state, and shall be
located at least 25 feet from property line.
   (C)   Where a connection to the city water system is presently available,
water distribution facilities including pipe fittings, hydrants, valves, and
the like, shall be installed to serve all properties within the subdivision.
Water mains shall be a minimum of six inches in diameter and where larger mains
are required to serve future growth, the city may elect to participate in the
cost of such water mains. Looping of all water mains shall be promoted.
(Prior Code, § 536.050)
§ 151.095 SEWERS.
   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete sanitary sewer
system to be connected to the municipal sanitary system.
(Prior Code, § 536.060)
§ 151.096 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Where sewer and water systems are installed, the mains shall be of
adequate size to accommodate future growth and utilization. Stubs shall be
provided to each lot from the utility main to the lot line for future
connection. Wherever practical, similar utilities shall be placed in the same
general location on streets of the same direction.
   (B)   Every lot in a subdivision shall be capable of being served by
utilities, and easements acceptable to the utility companies shall be provided.
Electric, gas, and other utility distribution lines shall be installed within
public rights-of-way or within properly designated easements. To the fullest
extent possible, underground utilities lines located in street rights-of-way
shall not be installed beneath existing or proposed paved areas and in any case
shall be installed prior to the placement of any paving.
(Prior Code, § 536.070)
§ 151.097 TREES.
   (A)   Trees shall be planted along the streets at a maximum spacing of 50
feet. The location and types of trees must meet the approval of the Council.
All such trees shall have a trunk diameter, measured at a point three feet
above ground level, of two and one-half inches.
   (B)   The following tree varieties shall not be planted or maintained in
street rights-of-way:
      (1)   Box elder;
      (2)   Willow;
      (3)   Cottonwood;
      (4)   Aspen;
      (5)   Elm;
      (6)   Catalpa;
      (7)   Walnut;
      (8)   Mountain Ash;
      (9)   Hawthorn;
      (10)   Poplar (any variety); or
      (11)   Nut or fruit-bearing trees.
(Prior Code, § 536.080)
§ 151.098 STREET SIGNS.
   Street name signs of a type adopted or approved by the Council shall be
installed at each street intersection by the subdivider on a location specified
by the Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 536.090)
§ 151.099 INSPECTION.
   (A)   All required improvements shall be inspected by the City Engineer
during construction at the expense of the subdivider. The contract shall
contain a provision for supervision of details of construction by the City
Engineer and shall grant to the Engineer the authority to correlate the work to
be done under such contract by any subcontractor authorized to proceed
thereunder with any other work being done or contracted by the city in the
vicinity.
   (B)   When the plans of streets and other improvements have been approved as
provided in this chapter, the subdivider shall first notify the Clerk/Treasurer
of its intention to proceed with the construction or installation of said
streets and improvements. Notification shall be made at least 24 hours before
any such construction or installation shall commence so as to give the city an
opportunity to inspect the site prior to commencement of work and to inspect
installation or construction of said streets and improvements during the course
of work being performed.
(Prior Code, § 536.100)
§ 151.100 ACCEPTANCE.
   After streets and improvements have been installed and constructed, pursuant
to the requirements contained in this chapter, and in the event that the
subdivider desires to have the city accept said streets or improvements, the
subdivider shall notify the Council that the construction or installation has
been completed, and shall supply the city with a minimum, of four copies of the
as-built plan on which the street or improvement in question has been
constructed or installed.
(Prior Code, § 536.110)
CHAPTER 152: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Purpose
   
152.03   Land to which chapter applies
   
152.04   Adoption of flood insurance study and maps
    
152.05   Interpretations
   
152.06   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.07   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.08   Definitions
   
152.09   Annexations
   
152.10   Establishment of Floodplain District
   
152.11   Permitted uses
   
152.12   Nonconformities
   
152.13   Amendments
   
152.14   Enforcement
Administration
   
152.25   Zoning Administrator
   
152.26   Development approvals
   
152.27   Permit required
   
152.28   Variances
   
152.29   Notifications for watercourse alterations
   
152.30   Notification to FEMA when physical changes increase or decrease base
flood elevations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has, in M.S. Chs. 103F and 462, as they may be
amended from time to time, delegated the responsibility to local government
units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
(Ord. 512.000, passed - -)
§ 152.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter regulates development in the flood hazard areas of the
city. These flood hazard areas are subject to periodic inundation, which may
result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of
commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood
protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base. It is the purpose of
this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare by
minimizing these losses and disruptions.
   (B)   This chapter is adopted to comply with the rules and regulations of
the National Flood Insurance Program codified as 44 C.F.R. pts. 59 through 80,
as amended, so as to maintain the community’s eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   (C)   This chapter is also intended to preserve the natural characteristics
and functions of watercourses and floodplains in order to moderate flood and
stormwater impacts, improve water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic
and riparian habitat, provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic
benefits, and enhance community and economic development.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.03 LAND TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   (A)   This chapter applies to all lands within the jurisdiction of the city
shown on the flood insurance rate maps adopted in §
152.04 as being located within the boundaries of the Floodplain District.
   (B)   The Floodplain District is an overlay district that is superimposed on
all existing zoning districts.
   (C)   The standards imposed in the overlay districts are in addition to any
other requirements in this chapter.
   (D)   In case of a conflict, the more restrictive standards will apply.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.04 ADOPTION OF FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY AND MAPS.
   (A)   The following maps together with all attached materials are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter and the official
zoning map:
      (1)   Flood insurance studies:
         (a)   Stearns County, Minnesota and incorporated areas (dated February
16, 2012); and
         (b)   Meeker County, Minnesota and incorporated areas (dated April 3,
2012).
      (2)   The currently effective flood insurance rate map panels enumerated
below:
         (a)   Stearns County Panel 27145C0960E, effective February 16, 2012;
         (b)   Meeker County Panel 27093C0075C, effective April 3, 2012.
   (B)   These materials are on file in the City Clerk/Treasurer’s office.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.05 INTERPRETATIONS.
   The boundaries of the Floodplain District are determined by scaling
distances on the flood insurance rate map.
   (A)   Where a conflict exists between the floodplain limits illustrated on
the official zoning map and actual field conditions, the flood elevations must
be the governing factor. The Zoning Administrator must interpret the boundary
location based on the ground elevations that existed on the site on the date of
the first National Flood Insurance Program map showing the area within the
regulatory floodplain, and other available technical data.
   (B)   Persons contesting the location of the district boundaries will be
given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the Planning Commission
and to submit technical evidence.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.06 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions, however, where this
chapter imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter prevail.
All other ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the
extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.07 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   This chapter does not imply that areas outside the floodplain districts or
land uses permitted within such districts will be free from flooding or flood
damages. This chapter does not create liability on the part of the city or any
officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.08 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation of the “regional food”, as defined. The
term BASE FLOOD ELEVATION is used in the flood insurance survey.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to, buildings, manufactured homes, and other
structures, recreational vehicles, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
excavation, drilling operations, or storage of materials or equipment.
   FARM FENCE. A fence as defined by M.S. § 344.02, subd. 1(a) through (d), as
it may be amended from time to time. An open-type fence of posts and wire is
not considered to be a structure under this chapter. Fences that have the
potential to obstruct flood flows, such as chain link fences and rigid walls,
are not permitted in the Floodplain District.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain located outside of the floodway.
FLOOD FRINGE is synonymous with the term FLOODWAY FRINGE used in the flood
insurance studies for Stearns County, Minnesota and Meeker County, Minnesota.
   FLOODPLAIN. The areas adjoining a watercourse which have been or hereafter
may be covered by the regional flood.
   FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include the term “recreational vehicle”.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building, wire, fence
(with the exception of farm fences), stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, or
matter in, along, across, or projecting into any channel, watercourse, or
regulatory floodplain which may impede, retard, or change the direction of the
flow of water, either in itself or by catching or collecting debris carried by
such water.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is built on a single chassis, is 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection, is
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck, and
is designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use. For the
purposes of this chapter, the term RECREATIONAL VEHICLE is synonymous with the
term TRAVEL TRAILER/TRAVEL VEHICLE.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 1% chance/
100-year recurrence interval. REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the term BASE
FLOOD used in the flood insurance study.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. An elevation no lower than one foot
above the elevation of the regional flood, plus any increases in flood
elevation caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from
designation of a floodway.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground, including, but not limited to, buildings, factories, sheds, detached
garages, cabins, manufactured homes, and other similar items.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure where the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT .
      (1)   Within any consecutive 365-day period, any reconstruction,
rehabilitation (including normal maintenance and repair), repair after damage,
addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the “start of
construction” of the improvement. This term includes structures that have
incurred “substantial damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”; provided, that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”. For the purpose of this chapter, “historic structure” is
as defined in 44 C.F.R. § 59.1.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.09 ANNEXATIONS.
   The flood insurance rate map panels adopted by reference into section §
152.04 may include floodplain areas that lie outside of the corporate
boundaries of the city at the time of adoption of this chapter. If any of these
floodplain areas are annexed into the city after the date of adoption of this
chapter, the newly annexed floodplain lands will be subject to the provisions
of this chapter immediately upon the date of annexation.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.10 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT.
   (A)   Areas included. The Floodplain District for the city includes those
areas designated as Zone A on the flood insurance rate maps adopted in section
§
152.04. The Floodplain District is an overlay district to all existing land use
districts. The requirements of this chapter apply in addition to other legally
established regulations of the community. Where this chapter imposes greater
restrictions, the provisions of this chapter apply.
   (B)   Compliance. No new structure or land shall hereafter be used and no
structure shall be constructed, located, extended, converted, or structurally
altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations. Within the Floodplain District, all uses not listed as
permitted uses in §
152.11 are prohibited.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.11 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The following uses are permitted within the Floodplain District
without a permit provided; that, they are allowed in any underlying zoning
district and not prohibited by any other ordinance; and provided; that they do
not require structures, fill, obstructions, excavations, drilling operations,
storage of materials or equipment, or any other form of development as defined
in §
152.08. If the use does require fill, obstruction, excavation, storage of
materials or any other form of development as defined in section §
152.08, a permit and compliance with division (B) below is required.
      (2)   The permit requirement may be waived if there is an application for
a public waters work permit from the Department of Natural Resources:
         (a)   Agricultural uses such as general farming, pasture, grazing,
forestry, sod farming, and wild crop harvesting. Farm fences that do not
obstruct flood flows are permitted;
         (b)   Outdoor plant nurseries and horticulture;
         (c)   Private and public recreational uses such as golf courses,
tennis courts, driving ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching
ramps, swimming areas, parks, wildlife, and nature preserves, game farms,
shooting preserves, target ranges, hunting and fishing areas, and single or
multiple purpose recreational trails;
         (d)   Lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play areas; and
         (e)   Railroads, roads, bridges, utility transmission lines,
pipelines, and other public utilities, provided; that the Department of Natural
Resources is notified at least ten days prior to issuance of any permit.
   (B)   Standards for permitted uses.
      (1)   The use must have low flood damage potential.
      (2)   The use must not cause any increase in the stage of the 1% chance
or regional flood or cause an increase in flood damages in the reach or reaches
affected. This provision applies to structures (temporary or permanent), fill
(including fill for roads and levees), deposits, obstructions, storage of
materials or equipment, and all other uses.
      (3)   Floodplain developments must not adversely affect the hydraulic
capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary watercourse
or drainage system.
      (4)   Public utilities, roads, railroad tracks and bridges to be located
within the floodplain must be designed in accordance with section divisions (B)
(2) and (B)(3) above, or must obtain a conditional letter of map revision
meeting the requirements of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(d).
         (a)   When failure or interruption of these public facilities would
result in danger to the public health or safety or where such facilities are
essential to the orderly functioning of the area, such facilities must be
elevated to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
         (b)   Where failure or interruption of service would not endanger
public health or safety, minor or auxiliary roads, railroads or utilities may
be constructed at a lower elevation.
      (5)   New or replacement water supply systems and sanitary sewage systems
must be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the
systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.12 NONCONFORMITIES.
   (A)   Continuance of nonconformities. A use, structure, or occupancy of land
which was lawful before the passage or amendment of this chapter, but which is
not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, may be continued subject
to the following conditions.
      (1)   A nonconforming use, structure, or occupancy must not be expanded,
changed, enlarged, or altered in a way that increases its nonconformity. There
shall be no expansion to the outside dimensions of any portion of a
nonconforming structure located within the Floodplain District.
      (2)   The cost of all structural alterations or additions to any
nonconforming structure over the life of the structure may not exceed 50% of
the market value of the structure unless the conditions of this section are
satisfied. The cost of all structural alterations and additions must include
all costs such as construction materials and a reasonable cost placed on all
manpower or labor. If the cost of all previous and proposed alterations and
additions exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure, then the structure
must meet the standards of division (B) below.
      (3)   If any nonconforming use, or any use of a nonconforming structure,
is discontinued for more than one year, any future use of the premises must
conform to this chapter. The Assessor must notify the Zoning Administrator in
writing of instances of nonconformities that have been discontinued for a
period of more than one year.
      (4)   If any nonconformity is substantially damaged, as defined in
section §
152.08, it may not be reconstructed unless it is located in the flood fringe
portion of the floodplain and it is reconstructed in accordance with the
standards of division (B) below.
      (5)   Any substantial improvement, as defined in section §
152.09, to a nonconforming structure, then the existing nonconforming structure
must be located in the flood fringe portion of the floodplain and meet the
requirements of division (B) below.
   (B)   Standards for reconstruction of nonconforming structures. The
following standards and procedures apply to nonconforming structures in the
flood fringe portion of the floodplain, as allowed under division (A) above.
      (1)   All structures, including manufactured homes, must be elevated on
fill so that the lowest floor, including basement floor, is at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation. The finished fill elevation for
structures shall be no lower than one foot below the regulatory flood
protection elevation and the fill shall extend at such elevation at least 15
feet beyond the outside limits of the structure.
      (2)   Fill must be properly compacted and the slopes must be properly
protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover, or other acceptable method.
      (3)   Floodplain developments must not adversely affect the hydraulic
capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary watercourse
or drainage system.
      (4)   All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse, and lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (5)   (a)   Where public utilities are not provided:
            1.   On-site water supply systems must be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems; and
            2.   New or replacement on-site sewage treatment systems must be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems
and discharges from the systems into flood waters and they shall not be subject
to impairment or contamination during times of flooding.
         (b)   Any sewage treatment system designed in accordance with the
state’s current statewide standards for on-site sewage treatment systems shall
be determined to be in compliance with this section.
      (6)   The applicant is required to submit certification by a registered
professional engineer, registered architect, or registered land surveyor that
the finished fill and building elevations were accomplished in compliance with
the provisions of this chapter. Flood-proofing measures must be certified by a
registered professional engineer or registered architect.
      (7)   The Zoning Administrator must maintain a record of the elevation of
the lowest floor (including basement) of all new structures and alterations to
existing structures in the floodplain. The Zoning Administrator must also
maintain a record of the elevation to which structures and alterations or
additions to structures are flood-proofed.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.13 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Floodplain designation; restrictions on removal.
      (1)   The floodplain designation on the official zoning map shall not be
removed from floodplain areas unless it can be shown that the designation is in
error or that the area has been filled to or above the elevation of the
regulatory flood protection elevation and is contiguous to lands outside the
floodplain.
      (2)   Special exceptions to this rule may be permitted by the
Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources if the Commissioner
determines that, through other measures, lands are adequately protected for the
intended use.
   (B)   Amendments require DNR and FEMA approval. All amendments to this
chapter must be submitted to and approved by the Commissioner of the Department
of Natural Resources (DNR) prior to adoption. The Commissioner of the DNR must
approve the amendment prior to community approval.
   (C)   Map amendments require ordinance amendments The floodplain district
regulations must be amended to incorporate any revisions by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency to the floodplain maps adopted in §
152.04.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.14 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Lawful action.
      (1)   Nothing in this chapter restricts the city from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
      (2)   If the responsible party does not appropriately respond to the
Zoning Administrator within the specified period of time, each additional day
that lapses will constitute an additional violation of this chapter and will be
prosecuted accordingly.
   (B)   Enforcement.
      (1)   In responding to a suspected ordinance violation, the Zoning
Administrator and City Council may utilize the full array of enforcement
actions available to it, including, but not limited to, prosecution and fines,
injunctions, after-the-fact permits, orders for corrective measures, or a
request to the National Flood Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance
availability to the guilty party.
      (2)   The city must act in good faith to enforce these official controls
and to correct ordinance violations to the extent possible so as not to
jeopardize its eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. passed - -)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.25 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   A Zoning Administrator or other official designated by the City Council must
administer and enforce this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.26 DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS.
   (A)   Any construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, improvement,
moving, or demolition of any building or structure must comply with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   No mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation,
obstruction, drilling operation, or other form of development as defined in§
152.08 are allowed, other than the uses permitted in §
152.11(A) and the activities allowed under §
152.12.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.27 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A permit must be obtained from the Zoning Administrator prior to conducting
the following activities:
   (A)   Expansion, change, enlargement, or alteration of a nonconforming use
as specified in §
152.12. Normal maintenance and repair also requires a permit if such work,
separately or in conjunction with other planned work, constitutes a substantial
improvement as defined in §
152.08;
   (B)   Any use that requires fill, obstruction, excavation, storage of
materials, or any other form of development as defined in §
152.08;
   (C)   Permit applications must be submitted to the Zoning Administrator on
forms provided for that purpose and shall include the following where
applicable: plans drawn to scale, showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the lot; existing or proposed structures, fill, or storage of
materials; and the location of the foregoing in relation to the stream channel;
and
   (D)   Prior to granting a permit, the Zoning Administrator must verify that
the applicant has obtained all necessary state and federal permits.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.28 VARIANCES.
   (A)   An application for a variance to the provisions of this chapter will
be processed and reviewed in accordance with applicable state statutes and
Ch. 150.
   (B)   A variance must not allow a use that is not allowed in that district,
permit a lower degree of flood protection than the regulatory flood protection
elevation for the particular area, or permit standards lower than those
required by state law.
   (C)   The following additional variance criteria of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency must be met.
      (1)   Variances must not be issued by a community within any designated
regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
      (2)   Variances may only be issued by a community upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Variances may only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (D)   The City Council must submit hearing notices for proposed variances to
the Department of Natural Resources sufficiently in advance to provide at least
ten days’ notice of the hearing. The notice may be sent by electronic mail or
U.S. mail to the respective DNR area hydrologist.
   (E)   A copy of all decisions granting variances must be forwarded to the
Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources within ten days of such
action. The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S. mail to the
respective DNR area hydrologist.
   (F)   The Zoning Administrator must notify the applicant for a variance
that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts an amount set by the City Council from time to time of insurance
coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the base or regional flood level increases
risks to life and property.
   (G)   The Zoning Administrator must maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and must report such
variances in an annual or biennial report to the Administrator of the National
Flood Insurance Program, when requested by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.29 NOTIFICATIONS FOR WATERCOURSE ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Before authorizing any alteration or relocation of a river or stream,
the Zoning Administrator must notify adjacent communities.
   (B)   If the applicant has applied for a permit to work in public waters
pursuant to M.S. Ch. 103G.245, as it may be amended from time to time, this
will suffice as adequate notice.
   (C)   A copy of the notification must also be submitted to the Chicago
Regional Office of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 152.30 NOTIFICATION TO FEMA WHEN PHYSICAL CHANGES INCREASE OR DECREASE BASE
FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   As soon as is practicable, but not later than six months after the date such
supporting information becomes available, the Zoning Administrator must notify
the Chicago Regional Office of FEMA of the changes by submitting a copy of the
relevant technical or scientific data.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 153: RENTAL CODE
Section
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Savings clause
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   Requirement
   
153.05   Fire Code
   
153.06   License required
   
153.07   Display of license
   
153.08   Inspection; right of entry
   
153.09   Health Department inspection
   
153.10   Housing Advisory and Appeals Board
   
153.11   Appeals process
   
153.12   Excessive law enforcement calls
   
153.13   Criminal background checks
   
153.14   Landlord liability
   
153.15   Applicable laws
   
153.16   Enforcement
   
153.17   Revocations and declarations
   
153.18   Rental Code
   
153.19   Effective date
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety,
and the general welfare of the people of the city.
   (B)   These general objectives include, among others, the following:
      (1)   To protect the character and stability of residential areas within
the city;
      (2)   To correct and prevent housing conditions that adversely affect or
are likely to adversely affect the life, safety, general welfare, and health,
including the physical, mental, and social well-being of person occupying
dwellings within the city;
      (3)   To provide minimum standards for cooking, heating, and sanitary
equipment necessary to the health and safety of occupants of buildings;
      (4)   To provide minimum standards for light and ventilation, necessary
to health and safety;
      (5)   To prevent the overcrowding of dwellings by providing minimum space
standards per occupant for each dwelling unit;
      (6)   To provide minimum standards for the maintenance of existing
residential buildings, and to thus prevent slums and blight;
      (7)   To preserve the value of land and buildings throughout the city;
and
      (8)   To ensure that rental property does not strain public utilities and
city staffing resources.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2016)
§ 153.02 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   With respect to rental disputes, and except as otherwise specifically
provided by the terms of this chapter, it is not the intention of the city to
intrude upon the fair and accepted contractual relationship between tenant and
landlord. The city does not intend to intervene as an advocate of either party,
nor to act as an arbiter, nor to be receptive to complaints from tenant or
landlord that are not specifically and clearly relevant to the provisions of
this chapter. In the absence of such relevancy with regard to rental disputes,
it is intended that the contracting parties exercise such legal sanctions as
are available to them without the intervention of city government. Neither, in
enacting this chapter, is it the intention of the City Council to interfere or
permit interference with legal rights to personal privacy. In the event any
provision or part of this chapter is determined to be void or unenforceable,
the remainder of this chapter shall remain in effect.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2016)
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
    DWELLING UNIT. Consists of one or more rooms that are arranged, designed,
or used as living quarters for rent. Each room or group of rooms shall be a
separate DWELLING UNIT. A rooming house shall be considered a single-dwelling
unit, but may charge a fee based on the number of sleeping rooms. A structure
that is self-enclosed and arranged designed and used as living quarters to a
single- family or group of persons under a single lease or agreement shall be
considered a single DWELLING UNIT.
   COMPLIANCE OFFICER. A designee appointed by the Eden Valley Council
authorized to administer and enforce this chapter.
   LICENSE. A provisional rental license, which is issued after receipt of fees
and may be revoked if such rental property is found not to be in compliance
with ordinances, codes, or statutes.
   LOT. An area within a manufactured home park or otherwise maintained and
made available for occupancy by a manufactured home.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. As provided in §
150.002.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any site, lot, field, or tract of land upon which
two or more occupied manufactured homes are located, either free of charge or
for compensation, and includes any building, structure, tent, vehicle, or
enclosure used or intended for use as part of the equipment of the manufactured
home park.
   MAXIMUM OCCUPANCY. For each occupant in a dwelling unit, 70 square feet of
space must be provided.
   OCCUPANT. Any person (including the owner or operator) living, sleeping,
cooking, and eating in a dwelling unit.
   OPERATOR. The owner or agent who has charge, care, control, or management of
a building or manufactured home park or part hereof, in which dwelling units,
manufactured homes, or rooming units are let.
   OWNER. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others, shall be
in actual possession of, or have charge, care or control of any dwelling unit,
manufactured home, rooming house, or sleeping unit within the city.
   SLEEPING ROOMS. A room or enclosed floor space in a rooming house or
dwelling unit, as defined herein, used or intended to be used primarily for
sleeping purposes.
   RENTAL PROPERTY. A dwelling unit offered for rent or occupied by a person or
persons in the status of tenant, but does not include motels. This term shall
not include property in which the dwelling unit or manufactured home is owned
by the occupant, but the land or lot is rented or leased.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A building or structure providing a room or rooms intended
for living and sleeping for persons in the status of tenant in which the toilet
and kitchen facilities are shared, and the common or shared areas of the
structure are actively maintained by the operator. This term shall include
boarding houses, day cares, lodging houses, bed and breakfasts, fraternity and
sorority houses, but does not include hotels, motels, or hospitals.
   TENANT. One who has as his or her place of abode a dwelling unit,
manufactured home, rooming house, or sleeping room furnished to him or her for
payment of a rental charge to another.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2016)
§ 153.04 REQUIREMENT.
   For rental property to qualify for a rental license, these conditions must
be met.
   (A)   Outdoors.
      (1)    The lawn of the rental facility must be graded and drained in a
way that it stays free of standing water.
      (2)   The lawn shall have a yard cover of perennial turf grass, free of
noxious weeds.
      (3)   Lawn grass shall be kept at a length of six inches or less.
      (4)   All fencing on the premises shall be kept in good repair.
      (5)   All accessory buildings must be structurally safe and in good
repair.
      (6)   All accessory buildings must be water tight.
      (7)   No litter, construction waste or miscellaneous debris on yards.
      (8)   House numbers must be visible from public right of way.
   (B)   Rental property exterior.
      (1)   The roof of the structure shall be structurally sound and water-
tight.
      (2)   The foundation shall be structurally sound, water-proof, and rodent
resistant.
      (3)   The exterior walls of the structure shall be structurally sound,
water-tight, and rodent resistant. All chimneys shall be structurally sound.
      (4)   Porch, decks and steps require guardrails if over 30 inches at or
above grade and be in good repair.
      (5)   Graspable handrails required on stairs/steps with four or more
steps/risers.
      (6)   All exterior doors shall have safe, functioning locks.
      (7)   Screens, storm doors, and storm windows shall be safe and in good
repair. Windows must be easily operable (open and close) and to remain open
without the use of a prop.
      (8)   Locks on windows required within 0 to 24 feet above grade.
      (9)   Garage doors must meet current safety guidelines.
      (10)   Exit and entrance doors must having operable dead bolts.
      (11)   Wood surfaces must be weather protected.
      (12)   Gutters and downspouts must be free of debris.
      (13)   Repairs must match existing finishes.
   (C)   Rental property interior.
      (1)   Bathroom facilities and fixtures shall be kept in a clean, sanitary
condition, and in working order.
      (2)   A functioning bathtub or shower shall be provided.
      (3)   At least one bathroom with a functioning flush-type toilet must be
provided.
      (4)   A functioning lavatory sink shall be provided.
      (5)   Kitchen facilities must be provided, including a working sink and
water supply.
      (6)   No dripping faucets.
      (7)   GFCI outlets must meet the state electric code.
      (8)   Flooring must be in good repair.
      (9)   No dwelling shall foster a situation where rodent or pest
infestation is a problem or a potential problem. Examples of this may include,
but are not limited to: actual evidence of pests; storage of material that
might provide a habitat for pests; and unsafe storage of items that might
become food for pests.
   (D)   Interior in general.
      (1)   The dwelling must have safe and functioning heating facilities in
all habitable rooms and bathrooms. A temporary heating device shall not be used
as a primary heating source.
      (2)   The dwelling must have an appropriate heated water system.
      (3)   Water heater must be in good repair.
      (4)   All stairways must be structurally safe.
      (5)   Graspable handrails required on stairs/steps with four or more
steps/risers.
      (6)   A safe and adequate smoke detector(s) must be provided at each
building level.
      (7)   If fire alarm system is installed it must be in working order or
tagged out of service and inspected as required.
      (8)   All buildings must have a fire extinguisher
      (9)   The dwelling must have at least one room of not less than 120
square feet of floor area. A combination of rooms connected by an opening(s) of
at least five feet may be counted as a room. An example would be when a living
room and a dining room are connected by an archway.
      (10)   All other habitable rooms, except the kitchen or efficiency
apartments, shall not have less than 70 square feet of floor area.
      (11)   No rental unit may be over-occupied by more persons than health
and safety may allow, where more than two persons would have to occupy any
bedroom, that room must allow for an extra 40 square feet of space per occupant
in excess of the two initial occupants. The minimum size of a bedroom shall be
70 square feet. An archway going to closet space shall not be construed as a
sleeping room.
      (12)   Each space designated as a habitable room by the owner shall
contain at least one usable window as a means of ventilation or shall have an
effective alternative means of room ventilation.
      (13)   Each habitable room shall contain at least two conventional
electrical outlets.
      (14)   Flooring must be in good repair.
      (15)   All electrical work must meet or exceed state electrical code.
      (16)   All electrical panel box components are in place.
      (17)   Electrical panel must be properly grounded.
      (18)   The dwelling must be designated “fit for human habitation.”
      (19)   Combustible venting must be in good repair and installed properly.
      (20)   All waste pipes must have proper venting.
      (21)   All beams, columns and subfloor shall be structurally sound.
      (22)   All dryers must be vented outside with proper metal pipe.
      (23)   All gas appliances require a single handle shut off valve.
      (24)   Sump pump must drain directly outside.
   (E)   Multi-unit dwellings (if applicable). If a building contains two or
more dwelling units, it falls under this division (E).
      (1)   All shared or public areas of such dwellings must be kept in a
clean and sanitary condition.
      (2)   The owner must provide separation of utility billings; for water,
electric, gas, sewer, and cable television if not included in rental unit
charge.
      (3)   The owner must provide for yard care and maintenance and the
removal of ice and snow.
      (4)   The owner must provide for effective lighting of all exterior
parking lots and walkways.
      (5)   The owner must provide and maintain parking areas and driveways in
good condition. The owner must maintain the yard(s) of the dwelling in good
condition.
   (F)   Garbage collection. The owner of every rental property must provide
garbage collection and recycling services for all occupants or require in a
written lease that occupants obtain garbage collection and recycling services
in accordance with
Ch. 52.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2016; Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-2-2019; Ord 2020-005, passed 8-5-
2020)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.05 FIRE CODE.
   All rental dwellings shall be subject to the State Fire Code, M.R. Ch. 7511.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2016)
§ 153.06 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall occupy, allow to be occupied, or let to another for
occupancy any rental property in the city for which a license has not been
properly issued by the Compliance Officer. No rental property shall be issued a
license by the city unless it complies with the ordinances of the city and the
statutes of the state, which pertain to such properties. A rental dwelling unit
solely occupied by the owner is exempt from this requirement.
   (B)   The rental of a lot, where the occupant owns the manufactured home, is
not subject to this chapter.
      (1)   License fee. The City Council may establish a licensing fee
schedule for each dwelling unit or sleeping room in each rental property. The
schedule may include a separate fee for licenses, inspections, and
delinquencies. Said license fees shall be payable at the time of application
for licensing or renewal of a license and shall be a prerequisite to the
issuance of the required license. Once issued, a licensee shall not be entitled
to a refund on any license fee upon suspension or revocation.
         (a)   Rental property which is licensed as a “curing home” (nursing
home) or a “boarding establishment” by the State Department of Health pursuant
to M.S. Ch. 157, as it shall be amended from time to time, shall be exempt from
the registration fee required under this section. This exception shall not
apply if no services are provided to the tenants, or the services are
incidental to, or independent of, the landlord/tenant relationship.
         (b)   If the license fee required hereunder is paid after expiration
date of current license, penalties shall be imposed as established by the
licensing fee schedule.
         (c)   All licenses shall expire on July 31, on the second calendar
year after the license was issued, regardless of the date of issuance. The
application for any renewal of a license in which an inspection is required
shall be filed at least 60 days prior to expiration. For cause, the Compliance
Officer may waive the application deadline for an applicant.
         (d)   If an applicant for a license renewal is delinquent or applies
for renewal less than 30 days before a license expires, the license fee is
doubled due to the increased administrative costs and enforcement costs.
      (2)   Manner of application. The license application shall be made by the
owner, if such owner is a natural person; if the owner is a corporation,
cooperative, or limited liability company, by an officer thereof; if a
partnership, by one of the partners; and if an unincorporated association, by
the manager or managing officer thereof, on the appropriate form available from
the Compliance Officer.
      (3)   License application.
         (a)   Name, residence address, and phone number of the owner of any
rental property, or property manager authorized by the owner to accept service
of process and to receive and give receipt for notices. In cases where the
owner of any rental property lives outside the city, the license application
shall be made by an agent who shall be legally responsible for compliance with
this and other city ordinances. Such agent shall live within the state;
         (b)   Name, address, and phone number of any agent actively managing
the rental property;
         (c)   Street address of the rental property;
         (d)   Tax parcel number of the rental property or manufactured home
park in which the rental property is located;
         (e)   Number and description of units within the rental property
(dwelling units, manufactured homes, or sleeping rooms), including square
footage of each room in unit;
         (f)   Name, address, and phone number of the person authorized to make
or order repairs and/or service to the rental property, to provide required
services necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the occupants,
or are able to contact the person so authorized; and
         (g)   Maximum number of people permitted per dwelling unit,
manufactured home, rooming house, or sleeping room pursuant to §
153.04(D)(7).
      (4)   Inspection. 
         (a)   All rental units will be subject to a biennial inspection
conducted by the Compliance Officer, or his or her authorized representative,
prior to issuance of the license. The Compliance Officer may grant a license
contingent on an inspection being completed within 30 days, if all other
requirements, including payment of the license fees, are met. After 30 days,
the license shall expire unless the Compliance Officer has certified the
required inspection. All inspections shall be completed on or before July 31 of
the year required. The owner of the rental property, or their authorized agent,
who is not the tenant, shall be present at the inspection to ensure compliance
with city ordinances and state statutes. It is the owner of the rental
property’s responsibility to notify tenants of planned inspections. The owner
or authorized agent shall sign and acknowledge any violation(s) that require
remedy. The owner of the rental property shall remedy any violation(s) before
any rental license is issued or renewed.
         (b)   Failure to comply with the inspection process by the owner of
the rental property will result in suspension or revocation of license, in
addition to other remedies and/or penalties provided by city ordinance and
state statute. Any such suspension or revocation shall continue until the
inspection process is complete, any violations are remedied to the satisfaction
of the inspector, and any outstanding fees and penalties have been paid.
         (c)   The inspection must be conducted in a manner that demonstrates
that the heating system is in operation and fully functioning.
         (d)   Compliance Officer, after inspection, shall determine timeline
for fixing violations and meeting city rental code.
      (5)   License before occupancy. All rental property required to be
licensed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be licensed prior to
occupancy or the letting to another for occupancy, and thereafter all licenses
of such rental property shall be renewed pursuant to division (B)(1)(c) above.
      (6)   Transfers. Every new owner of a rental property (whether as fee
owner, contract purchaser, or otherwise entitled to possession) shall apply for
and obtain a license under this chapter before taking possession.
      (7)   Certification of taxes paid. Prior to approving an application for
any city rental license, the applicant shall provide certification to the city
that there are no delinquent property taxes, special assessments, unpaid
utility charges certified for payment as taxes, interest, or city utility fees
due upon the property to be licensed.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2016; Ord. 2019-05, passed 6-5-2019; Ord. 2024-04, passed 4-3-
2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.07 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee of a rental property shall conspicuously display at all times
on the premises a copy of the current license. This license shall be located on
the premises so as to be easily viewed and readable by the occupants of the
rental property at or near the front entrance of the building for which it was
issued and shall be reasonably protected from wear by a plastic cover or
similar protective device.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2016)
§ 153.08 INSPECTION; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   In order to ensure compliance with this chapter’s requirements, or upon
receiving a written, signed complaint, the Compliance Officer shall have the
authority to enter any building or manufactured home park at reasonable times
upon notice to the landlord and tenant, to determine if the building or
manufactured home park is operated as a “rental property” as defined in this
chapter or to enforce the Uniform Housing Code, or both.
   (A)   When scheduling licensing inspections pursuant to this section, the
city compliance officer or his or her agents will seek the consent of the owner
of the property (if not already received) to inspect those areas outside of
rental dwelling units that are not accessible to the general public, such as
storage or mechanical rooms) and to unrented dwelling units, and the consent of
the primary tenant of the rental dwelling unit (if not already received) to
inspect that unit, if the property owner demonstrates to the satisfaction of
the city compliance officer or his or her agents that one or more tenants have
consented in writing to the inspection of their units, individual contacts by
the city with those tenants may be deemed unnecessary.
   (B)   If the city is unsuccessful in securing consent for an inspection
pursuant to this section, the city shall seek permission, from a judicial
officer through an administrative warrant, for its enforcement officer or his
or her agents to conduct an inspection. Nothing in this chapter shall limit or
constrain the authority of the judicial officer to condition or limit the scope
of the administrative warrant.
   (C)   The scope of a licensing inspection shall be limited to what is
necessary to determine in accordance with this division (C) whether the unit
and its premises conform to this chapter. This shall not preclude the
enforcement officer from relying upon observations from a licensing inspection
in seeking one or more of the remedies provided in §§
153.17 and
10.99.
   (D)   A licensing inspection must be scheduled during ordinary business
hours (or as otherwise arranged with the owner or tenant). Owners and their
agents, and tenants, may, at their option, request that licensing inspections
above take place only when they are present, so long as the request identifies
at least one date or time within the two weeks following the date of the
request when the requesting party agrees to be present.
   (E)   During inspections conducted pursuant to an administrative warrant,
photographs and video recordings may not be taken of areas inside the building,
absent further court permission or consent of the tenant (for areas inside the
unit) or the landlord (for areas inside the building but outside a tenant’s
unit, and areas inside an unoccupied unit).
   (F)   Inspectors are not authorized to open containers, drawers, or medicine
cabinets, unless the containers, drawers, or medicine cabinets are opened with
the consent of the tenant (for areas inside the unit) or the landlord (for
areas inside the building but outside a tenant’s unit, and areas inside an
unoccupied unit). For purposes of this division (F), a MEDICINE CABINET is a
covered cabinet located above a sink in a dwelling unit’s bathroom.
   (G)   Inspectors are authorized to open cabinets (other than medicine
cabinets) or closets only when because of their location, those closets or
cabinets, when unopened, appear to contain one or more water or waste water
pipes, or fuses, or exposed electrical wiring, and it is reasonably necessary
in order to inspect for the existence of one or more conditions that violates
this chapter, or when the cabinets or closets are opened with the consent of
the tenant (for areas inside the unit) or the landlord (for areas inside the
building but outside a tenant’s unit, and areas inside an unoccupied unit).
   (H)   The information regarding the condition of the unit or its occupants
that inspectors retain after recording it in any inspection logs or forms shall
be limited to descriptions of conditions constituting a violation of this
chapter. Inspectors may record a list of conditions that the landlord or tenant
is encouraged to repair or change but which do not constitute a violation of
this chapter, if that list is not retained by the inspector or city but is
instead simply given to the landlord or tenant.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2016)
§ 153.09 HEALTH DEPARTMENT INSPECTION.
   The Meeker and/or Stearns County Health Department and/or the City
Compliance Officer shall have the right to inspect any dwelling, whether rental
or owner-occupied, to enforce sanitation requirements.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2016)
§ 153.10 HOUSING ADVISORY AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The City Council shall serve as Housing Advisory and Appeals Board (“Housing
Board”). The Housing Board shall hear appeals arising from a correction order
from the Compliance Officer and affirm, modify, or reverse, in whole or in
part, such order.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2016)
§ 153.11 APPEALS PROCESS.
   When it is alleged by any person to whom a correction order is directed that
such order is based upon erroneous interpretation of the applicable rules,
standards, statutes, or ordinance or mistake in fact, such person may appeal
the correction order to the Housing Board. Such appeal must be in writing, must
specify the grounds for the appeal, must be accompanied by any filing fee
established by the city, and must be filed within 20 business days after the
date of the correction order. Upon receipt of the written appeal, the city
shall set a date for a hearing and give the appellant at least five days prior
written notice of the date, time, and place of the hearing. By mutual agreement
between the appellant and the city, the five-day notice may be waived. The
Housing Board shall hear and consider the matter within 30 days from the filing
of an appeal. The filing of an appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance
of the action appealed from unless the Compliance Officer certifies that such a
stay would cause imminent peril to life, health, or property. The Housing Board
shall issue its decision to the appellant in writing within 30 days after the
hearing. If the correction order is reversed, the applicable filing fee will be
returned to the appellant.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2016)
§ 153.12 EXCESSIVE LAW ENFORCEMENT CALLS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the intent of the City Council to collect from the
owner of a property, the city’s costs for excessive law enforcement services
when those excess costs are spent to abate a nuisance on the property. The
collection of the costs for such excess law enforcement services shall be by
assessment against the property on which the nuisance, or activity constituting
the nuisance, occurs.
   (B)   Definitions.    For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EXCESSIVE LAW ENFORCEMENT AND NUISANCE ENFORCEMENT SERVICES. Those
services provided at a specific property address after three or more verified
incidents of separate nuisance events had occurred in a prior year time period,
where the owner was notified in writing that subsequent nuisance incidents
would result in a fee being charged for excessive consumption of those
services, and where the owner had been provided with 30 days following notice
of nuisance incidents to abate the nuisance.
      NUISANCE. One or more of the following behavioral incidents occurring or
committed within a building:
      (1)   Prostitution or prostitution-related activity committed within the
building;
      (2)   Gambling or gambling-related activity committed within the
building;
      (3)   Maintaining a public nuisance in violation of M.S. § 609.74(1) or
(3), as it may be amended from time to time;
      (4)   Permitting a public nuisance in violation of M.S. § 609.745, as it
may be amended from time to time;
      (5)   Unlawful sale, possession, storage, delivery, giving, manufacture,
cultivation, or use of controlled substances committed within the building;
      (6)   Unlicensed sales of alcoholic beverages committed within the
building in violation of M.S. § 340A.401, as it may be amended from time to
time;
      (7)   Unlawful sales or gifts of alcoholic beverages by an unlicensed
person committed within the building in violation of M.S. § 340A.503, subd. 2
(1), as it may be amended from time to time or unlawful consumption or
possession within the building by persons under the age of 21 years in
violation of M.S. § 340A.503, subd. 1 and 3, as it may be amended from time to
time;
      (8)   Unlawful use or possession of a firearm in violation of M.S. §§
609.66, subd. 1a, 609.67 or 624.713, as they may be amended from time to time
committed within the building;
      (9)   Violation by a commercial enterprise of local or state business
licensing regulations, ordinances, or statutes prohibiting the maintenance of a
public nuisance as defined in M.S. § 609.74, as it may be amended from time to
time or the control of a public nuisance as defined in M.S. § 609.745, as it
may be amended from time to time;
      (10)   Actions which constitute a violation of M.S. § 609.72, as it may
be amended from time to time relating to disorderly conduct; or
      (11)   Actions which constitute a public nuisance under local, state, or
federal laws.
   (C)   Notice.
      (1)   If the Police Chief or his or her designee has reason to believe
that a nuisance has occurred, or is maintained or permitted in a building, or
on a property, and intends to seek reimbursement for law enforcement services
rendered in the future in connection with such nuisance or activities creating
a nuisance, he or she shall provide a written notice as required in this
section to the owner and each interested party known to him or her.
      (2)   The written notice shall:
         (a)   State that a nuisance as defined in this chapter has occurred,
or is maintained or permitted in the building, and specify the kind or kinds of
nuisance which has occurred, or is being maintained or permitted;
         (b)   Summarize the evidence that a nuisance has occurred, or is
maintained or permitted in the building, including the date or dates on which
nuisance-related activities have occurred or were maintained or permitted,
provided, however, that one or more Sheriff’s reports can be used to satisfy
this requirement; and
         (c)   Inform the recipient of the notice that he or she has 30 days to
abate the conduct constituting the nuisance, and to take steps to make sure
that actions constituting a nuisance will not re-occur, if, after 30 days from
the date of service of the notice, the nuisance re-occurs, or actions or
conduct constituting a nuisance take place, the city may in its discretion
impose the costs of law enforcement services in abating or attempting to abate
such nuisance or nuisance-related activities, and the costs will be collected
by assessment against the building as defined.
   (D)   Service of notice. The written notice shall be served by personal
service, or by first class mail on the owner and all interested parties known
to the Chief of Police or his or her designee, at the last known address for
each such person or persons.
   (E)   Liability for costs. If, within the period commencing 31 days after a
written notice is served pursuant to this chapter and continuing for one year
thereafter, a nuisance occurs or is maintained or permitted in the building,
and law enforcement services are rendered to abate or attempt to abate such
nuisance, the costs of providing such law enforcement services within the said
one year shall be assessed against the building and collected as provided in
this section. The costs for providing excess law enforcement services shall
include but not be limited to $100 for the first incident, $200 for the second
incident and $300 for each excessive use of services incident thereafter, the
prorata cost of all equipment and property damaged in responding to such
nuisance or nuisance-related activities, and the cost of any medical treatment
of injured law enforcement officers.
   (F)   Assessment of costs. The Police Department shall maintain a record of
each law enforcement visit in response to nuisance activities. The cost of
providing such services includes, but is not limited to, the prorata cost of
all materials and equipment including vehicles, the cost of repairs to any city
equipment and property damaged in responding to such nuisance activities, and
the cost of any medical treatment of any injured law enforcement officers.
These costs shall be recalculated from time to time. In addition to maintaining
a record of each law enforcement visit, the Department shall maintain a record
on individual properties of law enforcement services attributable to nuisances
occurring after written notice has been sent to the owner and interested
persons. The Police Chief shall report such information to the City Clerk or
his or her designee. The cost may be assessed in accordance with the procedure
provided in M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (G)   Appeal. Within 20 days after adoption of the resolution adopting the
service charges, any person aggrieved may appeal to the District Court.
   (H)   Statutory compliance. This section is intended to comply with M.S. §
504B.205, as it may be amended from time to time; nothing in this section is
intended impair a residential tenant’s right to seek the assistance of law
enforcement or emergency assistance.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2016; Ord. 2018-2, passed 1-10-2018)
§ 153.13 CRIMINAL BACKGROUND CHECKS.
   (A)   Purpose. The City Council has determined that there are persons
residing in rental property in the city engaging in disorderly conduct which
results in a hostile environment for other citizens of the city living near or
close to the rental property. It is the declared purpose and intent of this
section to protect and preserve the city’s neighborhoods and the public health,
safety, and welfare of its citizens by providing a system at the local level
for criminal history/background investigation of prospective tenants.
   (B)   Background investigations. Each operator is strongly encouraged to
conduct criminal history/background investigations on prospective tenants in
rental property though the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2016)
§ 153.14 LANDLORD LIABILITY.
   The owner of a rental unit, manufactured home park, rooming house, or
sleeping room shall be responsible to cause persons occupying the rental unit
to conduct themselves in such a manner as to not cause the premises to be in
violation of the prohibition against noise as set forth in the noise ordinance
(see §
92.04(K)), nor to allow to exist on the premises a public nuisance.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2016)
§ 153.15 APPLICABLE LAWS.
   Licensees shall be subject to all of the ordinances of the city and the
applicable state and federal laws relating to dwellings. In the event this
chapter conflicts with any other applicable ordinance or law, the more
restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2016)
§ 153.16 ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of this chapter is accomplished by the Compliance Officer who is
authorized to conduct inspections, issue licenses, investigate complaints, and
seek penalties of property owner(s) found to be in violation.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2016)
§ 153.17 REVOCATIONS AND DECLARATIONS.
   (A)   Revocations.
      (1)   Every license issued under this chapter is subject to revocation.
      (2)   Any license may be revoked at any time during the life of said
license for grounds including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   False or misleading information given or provided in connection
with the license application or renewal;
         (b)   Failure to pay any fee herein provided for;
         (c)    Failure to correct violations in the time period prescribed;
see §
153.06(B)(4)(a);
         (d)   Violations committed or permitted by the licensed owner and/or
the owner’s designated agent, of any rules, codes, statutes, and ordinances
relating to, pertaining to, or governing the license and the premises; and
         (e)   1.   Delinquent property taxes, special assessments, and/or city
utility charges if the city revokes a license, it shall be unlawful for the
owner or the duly authorized agent to thereafter permit any new occupancy of
vacant or thereafter vacated rental units until the license is restored.
            2.   Current tenants will be allowed to remain until the end of
their lease or one year, whichever is less.
            3.   In the case of revocation, restoration of the license shall
occur only after the premises’ owner has applied for a new license, paid a new
application fee and complied with all sections of this or any applicable city
ordinance.
   (B)   Appeal process. When an owner or tenant believes that an alleged
violation is based upon erroneous interpretation of the applicable rules,
standards, statutes or ordinance or mistake in fact, such person may appeal the
correction order to the City Council. Such appeal must be in writing, must
specify the grounds for the appeal, must be accompanied by any filing fee set
by Council resolution, and must be filed within 20 business days after service
of the correction order. Upon receipt of the written appeal, the city shall set
a date for a hearing and give the appellant at least five days prior written
notice of the date, time and place of the hearing. The Council shall hear and
consider the matter within 30 days, 20 days from the filing of an appeal. The
filing of an appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the enforcement officer certifies that such a stay would
cause imminent peril to life, health, or property. The Council shall issue its
decision to the appellant in writing within 30 days after the hearing.
   (C)   Hazardous building declaration. If a dwelling is unfit for human
habitation and the owner has not remedied the defects within a prescribed
reasonable time, the dwelling may be declared a hazardous building and treated
consistent with state law.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2016; Am. Ord. 2019-05, passed 6-5-2019)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.18 RENTAL CODE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “City of Eden Valley Rental Code”.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2016)
§ 153.19 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective immediately upon its passage and
publication, except existing rental properties (those operating as such on the
effective date) will be required to apply for a rental license by August 1,
2016 and obtain a license by February 1, 2017.
(Ord. passed 4-6-2016)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
-             - -         Annexing property adjacent to the city consisting of
                          approximately 38 acres
(Prior Code, § 601.000)
-             - -         Annexing certain property adjoining and being owned
                          by the city
(Prior Code, § 602.000)
Res. -        - -         Annexing property adjacent to the city consisting of
                          approximately 4.01 acres
(Prior Code, § 603.000)
-             12-5-2001   Annexing and incorporating into the city certain real
                          property
(Prior Code, § 604.000)
                         
 
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
-             - -         Granting a franchise to Minnesota Natural Gas Company
(Prior Code, § 1003.000)
-             1-18-1984   Granting a cable franchise to Westel
(Prior Code, § 1006.000)
-             4-6-1988    Granting Minnecasco, Inc. a franchise
(Prior Code, § 1004.000)
-             9-2-1990    Granting a franchise to Midwest Gas
(Prior Code, § 1002.000)
-             11-7-1990   Granting a franchise to Northern States Power Company
(Prior Code, § 1005.000)
-             12-2-1998   Amending a franchise agreement with Mark Twain
                          Cablevision Limited Partnership
(Prior Code, § 1006.040)
1006.050      2-8-2006    Extending a franchise to US Cable of Coastal-Texas,
                          L.P. (US Cable)
1007.000      2-22-2006   Granting a franchise to Melrose Telephone Company
1008.000      2-9-2011    Granting a franchise to Northern States Power
                          Company, a state company, d/b/a/ Xcel Energy
                         
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Minnesota Rules
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Section Code Section
M.S. Section                   Code Section
12.25                          33.01,
                               33.04
12.37                          33.06
14.57 to 14.69                 112.13
14.57 to 14.70                 111.36
15.99                          150.168
18.77                          92.70
21.81                          92.70
84.87                          72.07
84.922 through 84.929          72.26
103B.231                       150.145
103B.255                       150.045
Ch. 103F                       150.002,
                               152.01
Ch. 103G.245                   152.29
103G.291                       52.36
103I.301 to 103I.345           52.06
115.01, subd. 5                51.001
115.07                         51.001
116.072                        51.037
144.382, subd. 4               52.36
Ch. 157                        153.06
157.16                         111.03
Ch. 168 through 171            72.02
168.13                         92.06
168B.035, subd. 2              31.05
Ch. 169                        70.01,
                               72.26
169.67                         72.04
169.69                         70.04
169.693                        70.04
Ch. 216D                       91.34
216D.01 through 216D.09        91.34
237.162                        91.30,
                               91.39
237.163                        91.39
Ch. 278                        112.13
302A.155                       91.33
326B.46                        52.70
326B.46, subd. 2               52.70
327.31                         150.002
Ch. 329                        110.03
Ch. 333                        112.08
                               111.01,
Ch. 340A                       111.20,
                               111.23,
                               111.36
340A.101                       111.22
340A.301, subd. 6(a)           111.22
340A.301, subd. 6(c)           111.22
340A.301, subd. 6(d)           111.22
340A.301, subd. 6(i)           111.22
340A.301, subd. 6(j)           111.22
340A.301, subd. 7              111.22
340A.301, subd. 7(b)           111.22
340A.401                       153.12
340A.401, subd. 1              111.22
340A.401, subd. 1(b)           111.22
340A.401, subd. 1(4)           111.55
340A.404, subd. 4(a)           111.22
340A.404, subd. 4(b)           111.22
340A.404, subd. 5              111.22
340A.408                       111.23
340A.408, subd. 2(b)           111.22
340A.408, subd. 3              111.22
340A.409                       111.25,
                               111.54
340A.413                       111.55
340A.413, subd. 3              111.20
340A.414                       111.35
340A.414, subd. 5              111.23
340A.414, subd. 6              111.22
340A.503, subd. 1              153.12
340A.503, subd. 2(1)           153.12
340A.503, subd. 3              153.12
340A.504                       111.33
340A.504, subd. 3              111.22
340A.504, subd. 3(b)           111.22
340A.801                       111.25
                               113.01,
Ch. 342                        113.02,
                               113.03,
                               150.146
342.01                         113.01
342.01, subd. 14               113.01
342.11                         113.02
342.13                         113.02
342.13(c)                      113.04
342.13(f)                      113.04
342.13(h)                      113.04
342.17                         113.01
342.22                         113.01,
                               113.02
342.22, subd. 3(d)             113.02
342.22, subd. 4(b)             113.02
342.22, subd. 5(e)             113.99
342.24                         113.02,
                               113.04
342.27                         113.04
342.39                         113.03
342.40                         113.03
344.02, subd. 1(a) through (d) 152.08
347.51                         90.11
351.02                         30.22
364.03, subd. 3                112.06
412.02, subd. 2a               30.22
412.151                        52.36
412.591, subd. 2               30.35
412.601 through 412.751        52.36
Ch. 429                        91.44,
                               151.055
429.061                        92.10
                               92.10,
429.101                        93.06,
                               153.12
437.02                         110.03
444.075, subd. 3               52.51
444.075, subd. 3a              51.114
Ch. 462                        91.44,
                               152.01
462.3593                       150.131
462.3593, subd. 9              150.131
463.17                         92.09
471.6985                       111.53
504B.205                       153.12
515.01 to 515.29               150.002
518B.01                        112.12,
                               112.13
609.66, subd. 1a               153.12
609.67                         153.12
609.72                         153.12
609.74                         153.12
609.74(1)                      153.12
609.74(3)                      153.12
609.79                         112.12,
                               112.13
609.293 to 609.352             112.12,
                               112.13
609.745                        153.12
609.746 to 609.749             112.12,
                               112.13
617.202                        112.04
617.242                        112.01
617.293                        112.04
617.295                        112.04
624.713                        153.12
626.84, subd. 1(e)             31.04
631.4                          10.99
                               
 
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA RULES
Minnesota Rules Code Section
Minnesota Rules                Code Section
1300.0050                      51.003
Ch. 4715                       51.003,
                               52.31
Ch. 4725                       52.06
Ch. 7030                       92.04
7030.1000 through 7030.1050    70.04
Ch. 7080                       51.035,
                               51.037
Ch. 7560                       91.34
7560.0100, subps. 1 through 12 91.31
7560.0150, subp. 2             91.44
Ch. 7819                       91.31
                               91.34,
7819.1000                      91.36,
                               91.39
7819.0100, subps. 1 through 23 91.31
7819.1000, subp. 3             91.32
7819.1300                      91.40
7819.3000                      91.36
7819.3100                      91.45
7819.3200                      91.47,
                               91.48
7819.4000                      91.44
7819.4100                      91.44
7819.5000                      91.45
7819.5100                      91.45
Ch. 9810                       150.146
9810.200, subp. 3              150.146
9810.1000                      150.146
9810.1200                      150.146
9810.1500                      150.146
9810.1500, subp. 15            150.146
9810.2700                      150.146
                               
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Code Section
Prior Code Code Section
201.010    30.01
201.020    30.01
201.021    30.02
201.022    30.02
201.023    30.02
201.024    30.02
201.030    30.01,
           30.03
201.032    30.03
201.040    30.05
201.041    30.04
201.051    30.06
201.052    30.06
201.053    30.06
201.061    30.07
201.062    30.07
201.063    30.07
201.064    30.07
201.071    30.08
201.072    30.08
201.080    30.09
202.010    30.20
202.030    30.21
202.040    30.22
203.010    30.35
203.020    30.36
401.010    32.01
401.030    32.03
401.040    32.04
401.050    32.05
401.060    32.06
401.070    32.07
401.080    32.08
401.090    32.09
401.100    32.10
401.110    32.11
402.010    32.25
403.010    32.40
403.020    32.41
403.030    32.42
403.040    32.43
403.050    32.44
404.010    32.55
404.020    32.56
404.030    32.57
404.040    32.58
404.050    32.59
404.060    32.60
501.010    150.001
501.020    150.001
501.030    150.001
501.040    150.001
501.050    150.001
501.070    150.001
502.000    150.002
503.000    150.003
503.010    150.003
503.020    150.003
503.030    150.003
503.040    150.003
503.050    150.003
503.060    150.003
504.010    150.020
504.020    150.020
504.030    150.020
504.040    150.020
505.010    150.021
505.020    150.021
505.030    150.021
505.040    150.021
505.050    150.021
506.010    150.022
506.020    150.022
506.030    150.022
506.040    150.022
506.050    150.022
507.010    150.023
507.020    150.023
507.030    150.023
507.040    150.023
507.050    150.023
507.060    150.023
508.010    150.024
508.020    150.024
508.030    150.024
508.040    150.024
508.050    150.024
509.010    150.025
509.020    150.025
509.030    150.025
509.040    150.025
509.050    150.025
510.010    150.026
510.020    150.026
510.030    150.026
510.040    150.026
510.050    150.026
511.010    150.027
511.020    150.027
511.025    150.027
511.030    150.027
511.040    150.027
511.050    150.027
513.010    150.040
513.020    150.041
513.030    150.042
513.040    150.043
513.050    150.044
513.060    150.045
514.010    150.060
514.020    150.061
514.030    150.062
514.040    150.063
515.010    150.075
515.020    150.076
515.030    150.077
515.040    150.078
515.050    150.079
515.060    150.080
515.070    150.081
515.008    150.082
516.010    150.095
516.020    150.096
516.030    150.097
516.040    150.098
516.050    150.099
516.060    150.100
517.010    150.115
517.020    150.116
517.030    150.117
518.010    150.130
518.020    150.131
518.030    150.132
518.040    150.133
518.050    150.134
518.060    150.135
518.070    150.136
518.080    150.137
518.090    150.138
518.100    150.139
518.110    150.140
518.120    150.141
518.130    150.142
518.140    150.143
518.150    150.144
518.160    150.145
519.010    150.160
519.020    150.161
519.030    150.162
519.040    150.163
519.050    150.164
519.060    150.165
519.070    150.166
519.080    150.167
519.090    150.168
519.100    150.169
519.110    150.170
519.120    150.171
520.010    150.004
520.020    150.004
521.000    150.006
524.000    150.005
531.010    151.001
531.020    151.002
531.030    151.003
531.040    151.004
531.060    151.005
531.070    151.006
531.080    151.007
531.090    151.008
532.010    151.020
532.020    151.021
533.010    151.035
533.020    151.036
533.030    151.037
534.010    151.050
534.020    151.051
534.030    151.052
534.040    151.053
534.050    151.054
534.060    151.055
535.010    151.070
535.020    151.071
535.030    151.072
535.040    151.073
535.050    151.074
535.060    151.075
535.070    151.076
535.080    151.077
535.090    151.078
536.010    151.090
536.020    151.091
536.030    151.092
536.040    151.093
536.050    151.094
536.060    151.095
536.070    151.096
536.080    151.097
536.090    151.098
536.100    151.099
536.110    151.100
601.000    TSO Table I
602.000    TSO Table I
603.000    TSO Table I
604.000    TSO Table I
701.010    91.15
701.020    91.16
701.030    91.17
701.040    91.18
701.050    91.19
702.010    91.01
702.020    91.02
901.010    130.01
901.020    130.01
901.030    130.01
902.010    92.20
902.020    92.21
904.010    70.05
905.010    71.06
905.020    71.06
908.010    93.01
908.020    93.03
910.010    93.02
911.010    53.01
911.020    53.02
911.030    53.03
911.040    53.04
911.050    53.05
911.060    53.06
911.070    53.07
911.080    53.08
911.090    53.09
1001.010   50.01
1001.020   50.02
1002.000   TSO Table II
1003.000   TSO Table II
1004.000   TSO Table II
1005.000   TSO Table II
1006.000   TSO Table II
1006.040   TSO Table II
1301.010   90.01
1301.020   90.02
1301.030   90.03
1301.040   90.04
1301.050   90.05
1301.060   90.06
1301.070   90.07
1301.080   90.08
1301.090   90.09
1301.100   90.10
1301.110   90.11
1301.120   90.11
1301.130   90.13
1301.140   90.14
1301.150   90.15
1301.160   90.16
1301.170   90.17
1401.010   70.01
1401.020   70.02
1402.010   Ch. 73 Schd. I
           71.01—
1402.020   71.05,
           Ch. 74 Schd. I
1402.030   70.03
1402.040   Ch. 73 Schd. II
1402.050   70.04
1403.010   72.01
1403.020   72.02
1403.030   72.03
1403.040   72.04
1403.050   72.05
1403.060   72.06
1403.070   72.07
1403.080   72.08
1403.090   72.09
1403.100   72.10
1403.110   72.11
1404.010   72.25
1404.020   72.26
1404.030   72.27
1404.030   Ch. 73 Schd. III
1405.010   72.40
1405.020   Ch. 73 Schd. IV
1405.040   72.41
1501.010   92.35
1501.020   92.36
1502.010   92.50
1502.020   92.51
1502.030   92.52
1505.010   92.65
1505.020   92.66
1601.010   10.98
1601.020   10.98
1601.030   10.98
1601.040   10.98
1601.050   10.98
1601.060   10.98
1601.070   10.98
1601.080   10.98
1601.090   10.98
           
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         TSO Table I
2005-3   1-5-2005    150.005
2012-3   1-11-2012   10.98
2018-26  11-14-2018  150.005
2018-27  11-14-2018  30.10
2018-28  11-14-2018  130.03
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     152.01—
-        - -         152.14,
                     152.25—
                     152.30
-        - -         TSO Table I
-        - -         TSO Table I
-        - -         TSO Table II
-        4-2-1980    91.01,
                     91.02
-        1-18-1984   TSO Table II
-        3-5-1986    93.02
-        12-16-1987  32.02,
                     32.56
-        4-6-1988    TSO Table II
-        1-18-1989   71.06
-        7-5-1989    52.01—
                     52.09
-        3-14-1990   32.11,
                     32.59
-        9-2-1990    TSO Table II
-        11-7-1990   TSO Table II
-        3-3-1993    32.11
-        9-22-1993   92.36
-        2-16-1994   32.59
-        12-3-1997   92.36
-        12-2-1998   TSO Table II
-        2-3-1999    32.11,
                     32.59
-        6-6-2001    52.01—
                     52.09
-        10-3-2001   92.35,
                     92.36
-        12-5-2001   TSO Table II
-        9-4-2002    30.03
202.040  9-9-2003    30.22
                     150.001—
                     150.006,
                     150.020—
                     150.027,
                     150.040—
                     150.045,
                     150.060—
                     150.063,
-        10-8-2003   150.075—
                     150.081,
                     150.095—
                     150.100,
                     150.115—
                     150.117,
                     150.130—
                     150.145,
                     150.160—
                     150.171
-        6-9-2004    92.36
                     70.04,
                     71.01—
-        1-5-2005    71.06,
                     Ch. 73 Schd. I,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. I
-        1-5-2005    150.116
-        5-4-2005    92.65,
                     92.66
-        12-7-2005   150.024,
                     150.027
-        1-11-2006   32.11,
                     32.59
1006.050 2-8-2006    TSO Table II
1007.000 2-22-2006   TSO Table II
-        2-6-2008    90.01—
                     90.17
1008.000 2-9-2011    TSO Table II
-        4-6-2016    153.01—
                     153.19
2016-3   8-31-2016   150.131
2016-4   8-31-2016   150.025
2016-5   9-7-2016    71.07
2018-2   1-10-2018   153.12
2018-3   8-8-2018    52.36,
                     52.99
2018-4   11-14-2018  Adopting Ordinance
2019-1   1-2-2019    153.04
2019-03  6-5-2019    71.04
2019-04  6-5-2019    92.05
2019-05  6-5-2019    153.06,
                     153.17
2019-06  9-4-2019    92.15—
                     92.17
2019-07  9-4-2019    111.05
                     150.002,
2020-002 8-5-2020    150.132,
                     150.133
2020-003 8-5-2020    92.70—
                     92.78
2020-004 8-5-2020    92.35,
                     92.36
2020-005 8-5-2020    153.04
2020-006 9-2-2020    150.120
2023-02  7-26-2023   92.15—
                     92.17
                     150.002,
                     150.021,
2024-03  4-3-2024    150.022,
                     150.133,
                     150.171
2024-04  4-3-2024    153.06
                     150.002,
                     150.020,
05-2024  8-7-2024    150.024—
                     150.027,
                     150.166
2024-07  11-13-2024  90.04,
                     90.18
2024-08  11-13-2024  90.04,
                     90.19
                     150.002,
                     150.020,
2024-09  12-4-2024   150.024—
                     150.027,
                     150.146
                     113.01—
2024-10  12-4-2024   113.04,
                     113.99
                    
 
