ELBOW LAKE, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2024 S-6 Supplement, current through
Ordinance 2024-10, passed 1-2-2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 190
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF ELBOW LAKE,
MINNESOTA, AMENDING, RESTATING, REVISING, UPDATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING
CERTAIN ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE
OF ORDINANCES, AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES.
WHEREAS, M.S. §§ 415.02 and 415.021 authorize the city to cause its ordinances
to be codified and printed in a book,
NOW THEREFORE the City Council of the City of Elbow Lake, Minnesota, ordains:
Section 1. The general ordinances of the city as amended, restated, revised,
updated, codified and compiled in book form, including penalties for the
violations of various provisions thereof, are hereby adopted and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Elbow Lake." This Code of
Ordinances also adopts by reference certain statutes and administrative rules
of the State of Minnesota as named in the Code of Ordinances.
Section 2. The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following titles:
   General Provisions, Administration, Public Works, Traffic Code, General
Regulations, Business Regulations, General Offenses, Land Usage, Table of
Special Ordinances.
Section 3. All prior ordinances, pertaining to the subjects treated in the Code
of Ordinances, shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of
this ordinance, except as they are included and re- ordained in whole or in
part in the Code of Ordinances; provided, this repeal shall not affect any
offense committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the
effective date of this ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions
of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching
territory, establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain
persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or
borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal
property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public
use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor
shall this repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature
or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code of
Ordinances. All fees established in prior ordinances codified in this code
shall remain in effect unless amended in this code or until an ordinance
adopting a fee schedule is adopted or amended.
Section 4. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances shall be a sufficient
publication of any ordinance included in it and not previously published in the
city's official newspaper. The Clerk of the city shall cause a substantial
quantity of the Code of Ordinances to be printed for general distribution to
the public at actual cost and shall furnish a copy of the Code of Ordinances to
the County Law Library or its designated depository. The official copy of this
Code of Ordinances shall marked and be kept in the office of the City Clerk.
Section 5. The Code of Ordinances is declared to be prima facie evidence of the
law of the city and shall be received in evidence as provided by Minnesota
Statutes by the Courts of the State of Minnesota.
Section 6. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances, and the Code of
Ordinances itself, shall take effect upon publication of this ordinance in the
city's official newspaper.
PASSED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ELBOW LAKE, MINNESOTA THIS 2nd DAY OF
MAY, 2005.
APPROVED:
Ed Williams /s/
Ed Williams, Mayor
ATTEST:
Jeff Holsen /s/
Jeff Holsen
City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Code Provisions
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
Administrative Procedures and Penalties
   
10.30   Purpose
   
10.31   Scope
   
10.32   Definitions
   
10.33   Administrative offenses; schedules of fines and fees
   
10.34   Citation; authorization to issue and contents
   
10.35   Appeal procedure
   
10.36   Recovery of civil penalties
Abatement of Public Nuisances
   
10.45   Declaration of policy
   
10.46   Application
   
10.47   Hearing Examiner
   
10.48   Inspection and investigation
   
10.49   Abatement of nuisances
   
10.50   Procedure for removal of public nuisances
   
10.51   Interference prohibited
 
   
10.98   Supplemental administrative penalties
   
10.99   General penalty
   
Appendix I: Resolution to adopt a schedule of offenses and voluntary
administrative penalties
   
Appendix II: Notice of code violation
GENERAL CODE PROVISIONS
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“city code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances”
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance:
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the city as presently
established or as amended by ordinance, annexation or other legal actions at a
future time. The term CITY when used in this code may also be used to refer to
the City Council and its authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. The county or counties in which the city is located.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway right-of-
ways, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Clerk-Administrator- Treasurer for public inspection. The Clerk-Administrator-
Treasurer shall provide a copy for sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES BY REFERENCE.
   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code, all
future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes adopted by
reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted by
reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this code
was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any Licensed Peace Officer of the city's Police Department, or the
County Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer shall have the authority to
administer and enforce this code. In addition, under that statutory authority,
certain individuals designated within the code have the authority to administer
and enforce the provisions specified. All and any person or persons designated
by the Clerk- Administrator-Treasurer may issue a citation in lieu of arrest or
continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer and any city official or
employee designated by this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty
under this code may with the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of
any property or resident of a dwelling, or other person in control of any
premises, inspect or otherwise enter any property to enforce compliance with
this code.
   (D)   If the licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer, Peace Officer, or any employee or official
charged with the duty of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a
showing that probable cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant
from a court of competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant
before conducting the inspection or otherwise entering the property. This
warrant shall be only to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted
to protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are being complied with
and to enforce these provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as
a result of the warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable
cause to issue the warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable.
Probable cause does not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a
particular property.
   (E)   Every licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property
within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or entrance to
the property by the City Clerk- Administrator-Treasurer or any other authorized
city officer or employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code
enacted to protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are being
complied with and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit
the inspection of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for termination
of any and all permits, licenses or city service to the property. Mailed notice
shall be given to the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of
the property, stating the grounds for the termination, and the licensee, owner,
resident or other person in control of the property shall be given an
opportunity to appear before the City Clerk- Administrator-Treasurer to object
to the termination before it occurs, subject to appeal of the Clerk-
Administrator-Treasurer's decision to the City Council at a regularly scheduled
or special meeting.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND PENALTIES.
§ 10.30 PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that there is a need for alternative methods to
enforce portions of the City Code. While criminal fines and penalties have been
used historically as enforcement mechanisms, negative consequences for both the
city and the public can result. The delay inherent in the criminal justice
system does not always ensure prompt resolution of offenses that immediately
impact the livability of the community. Citizens may resent being labeled
criminals for violations of administrative regulations. The higher burden of
proof and the potential of incarceration are not always appropriate for many
administrative violations. The criminal justice system often cannot give
priority to City Code violations due to caseloads and more serious cases in the
system. Accordingly, the City Council finds that the use of administrative
citations and the imposition of civil penalties is a legitimate and necessary
alternative method of enforcement and a way to reduce the burdens on our court
system.
(Ord. passed 4-5-21)
§ 10.31 SCOPE.
   The administrative procedures and penalties in this subchapter may be used
for violations of City Code
Chapters 90 (Health and Sanitation),
92 (Sidewalks), and
94 (Animals). The provisions of this subchapter may be used concurrently with,
as an alternative to or in addition to any other procedure or remedy, criminal
or civil, the city may pursue under the City Code, state law, or federal law,
including but not limited to the abatement provisions contained in §
90.20. Nothing herein restricts the right of government agents to enter
property or to seek other remedies in emergency or other situations as
authorized by City Code, state law, or federal law.
(Ord. passed 4-5-21)
§ 10.32 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter and the subchapter "Abatement of Public
Nuisances," §§ 10.40 et seq., the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   BOARD. A quorum of the City of Elbow Lake City Council.
   CITATION. An administrative citation issued pursuant to this subchapter.
   CITY CLERK. The Elbow Lake City Administrator or designee.
   CITY CODE. The Elbow Lake City Code.
   CODE COMPLIANCE OFFICIAL. The Elbow Lake City Administrator or designee.
(Ord. passed 4-5-21)
§ 10.33 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES; SCHEDULES OF FINES AND FEES.
   (A)   A violation of any provision of
Chapters 90,
92 and/or
94 is an administrative offense subject to a citation and civil penalties
pursuant to this subchapter. Each day a violation exists constitutes a separate
offense.
   (B)   Each count of an administrative violation is subject to a civil
penalty not to exceed the maximum fine that may be imposed for the same
violation if it were prosecuted as a misdemeanor offense, abatement, or both
unless otherwise provided.
      (1)   The civil penalty for a particular count shall be established as
provided in division (D);
      (2)   If a violator remedies a count of a violation and demonstrates that
fact prior to the compliance date, the civil penalty for that count is waived.
   (C)   A second or subsequent citation issued within 180 days of any same or
similar citation is subject to a civil penalty of at least twice the previously
imposed penalty but within the limits of any fine that could be imposed if the
violation were prosecuted as a misdemeanor offense. If the violator remedies
the violation prior to the compliance date, the full civil penalty for that
particular citation will be waived; civil penalties for previous citations will
not be waived.
   (D)   The City Council may adopt by resolution a schedule of recommended
fines for offenses initiated by citation, and may designate those offenses for
which a fine must be paid even if the violation is remedied. The resolution may
also identify violations for which a fine only may be imposed for a first
offense occurring within a specified time period, not to exceed three years.
The resolution may also specify a filing fee to appeal to the Board. If no
resolution is adopted, the following fees shall apply:
      (1)   First administrative citation: $100. If the violation is remedied
by the compliance date, the fee will be nullified.
      (2)   Second administrative citation: $200 and/or abatement of nuisance;
      (3)   Third administrative citation: $400 and/or abatement of nuisance;
      (4)   Fourth administrative citation: $800 and/or abatement of nuisance;
      (5)   Fifth administrative citation: $1,000 and/or abatement of nuisance;
and
      (6)   Appeal filing fee: $5.
   (E)   The City Clerk is authorized to promulgate rules and forms to affect
the procedures herein.
(Ord. passed 4-5-21)
§ 10.34 CITATION; AUTHORIZATION TO ISSUE AND CONTENTS.
   (A)   The Code Compliance Officer is authorized to issue a citation, in a
form adopted by the City Council, that minimally complies with this subchapter,
upon reasonable belief that a code violation has occurred. The citation must be
issued in one of the following ways:
      (1)   By personal service upon the owner of the property or an occupant
of suitable age residing at the property where the violation occurred, or in
the case of a business or corporation, the citation may be served upon an
employee on the premises or to a corporate officer;
      (2)   By first class U.S. Mail to a person identified in division (A)(1);
      (3)   By posting the citation in a conspicuous place on or near the main
entrance where it reasonably appears the property is occupied but the occupants
are not available or willing to accept personal service, and where the property
is not a licensed rental dwelling;
      (4)   By posting the citation in a conspicuous place on or near the main
entrance and mailing by first class U.S. Mail a notice of the citation to the
owner of record where it reasonably appears the property is vacant or
abandoned; or
      (5)   By posting the citation in a conspicuous place on or near the main
entrance and mailing by first class U.S. Mail, notice of the citation to the
licensee where the property is a rental dwelling licensed by the city.
   (B)   Contents of citation. The citation must state the date, time, and
nature of the offense, the identity of the person issuing the citation, the
amount of the scheduled fine, the manner of paying the tine or appealing the
citation, a date by which the fine must be paid, a compliance date or range of
dates, if any, and the manner and time for taking an appeal. If a compliance
date or range of dates is given, the citation must state the action that must
be taken to achieve compliance, and it must conspicuously state that if
compliance is not achieved within the stated time, the city may thereafter
abate the violation without further warning and with assessment of the costs
therefore to the subject property. Any compliance date must be not less than
seven nor more than 30 days following the date the citation is issued;
provided, however, that in an emergency situation that poses an immediate
threat to public safety, health or welfare, an earlier compliance date may be
set. The compliance date may be extended by the Code Compliance Official for up
to 30 days following the date of the citation upon a determination by the Code
Compliance Official that a reasonable plan for remedying the violation exists.
The plan must be agreed to in writing by the owner of the property for an
extension to be granted. Unless an appeal is taken or compliance is achieved
before the compliance date, no further notice is necessary prior to the entry
on the property by city officials or their agents and assignees to abate the
violation and assess the costs of abatement to the property.
   (C)   The owner or occupant of the property must pay the fine and, if
required, come into compliance, or appeal, in a manner consistent with division
(D), within any time period specified on the citation. Unless the violation is
a second or subsequent violation pursuant to §
10.33(C) or is a violation for which a fine is imposed pursuant to §
10.33(D), the fine will be waived if compliance is achieved by the compliance
date. Voluntary compliance after the citation is issued and/or payment of the
fine constitutes admission of the violation. The Code Compliance Official may
extend the time for appeal only on a showing of good cause. Payment of the fine
does not forgive continued violation of City Code.
   (D)   Contents of appeal. The appeal must be in writing and executed by the
owner of the property. The appeal must minimally state the name and mailing
address of the person that caused the violation, that person's relationship to
the property involved, and a brief statement why the citation is in error.
(Ord. passed 4-5-21)
§ 10.35 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The City Clerk, upon receipt of a proper notice of appeal, shall stay
any fine or abatement action until the time for appeals under this section has
run.
   (B)   Within ten days of the date of the citation or prior to the deadline
for compliance, whichever is sooner, any party aggrieved by the citation may
appeal the citation to the Board. The appeal must comply with §
10.34(D), and must be served in person or by U.S. Mail on the City Clerk.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a proper appeal under division (B), the City Clerk
shall place the matter before the Board for a hearing which shall be held no
earlier than ten days after receipt of the notice, unless otherwise agreed to
by the parties. Notice of the hearing must be served in person or by U.S. Mail
on the person or persons to whom the citation was issued. At the hearing, the
parties may present documents and testimony, and may question witnesses, and
the Mayor shall preside over the hearing. The Board must record the hearing and
receive testimony and exhibits. The Board must rule by majority vote on
objections, and receive and give weight to evidence, including reliable hearsay
evidence that possesses probative value commonly accepted by reasonable and
prudent people in the conduct of their affairs. The hearing may be continued
from time to time at the discretion of the Board.
   (D)   At any time before the hearing, or before the hearing is adjourned,
the Code Compliance Official may modify the citation to change counts or
include additional counts, with notice to the person bringing the appeal. If
not made during the hearing, the notice must be in writing and given to the
person or served by U.S. Mail.
   (E)   The Board must affirm or rescind the citation, as it may have been
modified under division (D), and provide written notice of its determination to
the parties. If a citation consists of more than one count, the Board may
consider each count independently. A majority of the members present must agree
in order to affirm a citation or any particular count. A failure to adopt a
motion to affirm constitutes a rescission. The Board may reconsider the motion
to affirm at any time before the hearing is finally adjourned. The Board's
determination, if the citation or any particular count of the citation is
affirmed, revokes the stay of the applicable fine and compliance dates, if any,
and payment and compliance must occur within ten days of the date of the notice
of determination, unless an aggrieved party perfects a court-ordered stay with
the deposit of an appropriate supersedeas bond under the Minnesota Rules of
Civil Procedure.
   (F)   The Board's decision is final without any further right of
administrative appeal. Further appeal shall only be by writ of certiorari to
the Minnesota Court of Appeals.
(Ord. passed 4-5-21)
§ 10.36 RECOVERY OF CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   If a civil penalty is not paid within the time specified, it
constitutes:
      (1)   A personal obligation of the violator; and
      (2)   A lien upon the real property upon which the violation occurred if
the property or improvements on the property were the subject of the violation
and the property owner was given notice of the violation.
   (B)   A lien may be assessed against the property and collected in the same
manner as taxes.
   (C)   A personal obligation may be collected by any appropriate legal means.
   (D)   If a payment in full is not received by the City of Elbow Lake by
October 1, a 10% fee will be added to the fine when it is assessed.
   (E)   During the time that a civil penalty remains unpaid or the violator
remains out of compliance, no city approval will be granted for a license,
permit, or other city approval sought by the violator or for property under the
violator's ownership or control.
   (F)   Failure to pay a fine or otherwise comply with a citation is grounds
for suspending, revoking, denying, or not renewing a license or permit
associated with the violation.
(Ord. passed 4-5-21)
ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCES.
§ 10.45 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   The City Council of the City of Elbow Lake has determined that the health,
safety, good order, general welfare, and convenience of the public are
threatened by certain public nuisances on property within the city limits. It
is declared to be the intention of the Council to abate these nuisances, and
this subchapter is enacted for that purpose.
(Ord. passed 4-5-21)
§ 10.46 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall apply to the abatement of all public nuisances as
defined anywhere within this Code unless another procedure is specifically
provided.
(Ord. passed 4-5-21)
§ 10.47 HEARING EXAMINER.
   (A)   Position created. The position of Hearing Examiner is hereby created.
The Elbow Lake City Clerk will act as the Hearing Examiner for all public
nuisance hearings.
   (B)   Duties of Hearing Examiner. The Hearing Examiner shall have the
following duties:
      (1)   Set dates for all hearings on appeals of citations issued by the
Code Compliance Official and ensure that notice thereof is properly given.
      (2)   Make a complete record of all appeal hearings.
      (3)   Ensure that the Board's decisions on appeals of citations are
properly served on the parties who appeal.
(Ord. passed 4-5-21)
§ 10.48 INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Periodic inspection. The Code Compliance Official in conjunction with
the Grant County Sheriff's Office shall cause to be inspected all public and
private places within the city which might contain a public nuisance as defined
in this Code as often as practicable to determine whether any such conditions
exist. The Code Compliance Official in conjunction with the Grant County
Sheriff's Office shall also investigate all reports of public nuisances located
within the city.
   (B)   Entry on public and private places. The Code Compliance Official or
their duly authorized agents may with the owner's or occupant's consent enter
upon all public and private places at any reasonable time for the purposes of
inspecting those places for public nuisances and general compliance with
applicable local, state and federal laws. If the owner or occupant refuses to
consent to such inspection, the Code Compliance Official or duly authorized
agents are authorized to obtain administrative search warrants to allow for the
inspection; provided, however, that no search warrant is needed in the case of
emergencies, plain view searches, and other situations where neither state nor
federal law requires a search warrant.
(Ord. passed 4-5-21)
§ 10.49 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   Upon a determination by the Code Compliance Official that a public nuisance
exists on any public or private property within the city, the Code Compliance
Official shall cause an administrative citation to be issued pursuant to §
10.34.
(Ord. passed 4-5-21)
§ 10.50 PROCEDURE FOR REMOVAL OF PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   If a nuisance is not abated within the compliance period stated in the
citation, the city may proceed with abatement as set forth in this subchapter
or §
90.20.
   (B)   The city shall take no action to abate any nuisance prior to the
expiration or the compliance period stated in a citation or while any appeal of
the matter is still pending.
   (C)   The Code Compliance Official shall keep a record of the costs of
abatements done under this section and shall report monthly to the City Clerk
or other appropriate officer all work done for which assessments are to be
made, stating and certifying the description of the land, lots or parcels
involved and the amount assessable to each.
   (D)   On or before October 1 of each year, the City Clerk shall list the
total unpaid charges for each abatement against each separate lot or parcel to
which they are attributable under this subchapter. The Council may then spread
the charges or any portion thereof against the property involved as a special
assessment under other pertinent statutes for certification to the County
Auditor and collection the following year along with current taxes. Such
assessment shall be payable in no more than ten equal annual installments,
pursuant to M.S. § 429.01, subd. 2.
(Ord. passed 4-5-21)
§ 10.51 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
Code Compliance Official or their agents while they are engaged in the
performance of duties set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 4-5-21)
§ 10.98 SUPPLEMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to those administrative penalties established in this code
and the enforcement powers granted in §
10.20, the City Council is authorized to create by resolution, adopted by a
majority of the members of the Council, supplemental administrative penalties.
The resolution may be in the form established in
Appendix I of this chapter.
   (B)   These administrative penalty procedures in this section are intended
to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost effective and
expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
certain provisions of this code. The procedures are intended to be voluntary on
the part of those who have been charged with those offenses.
   (C)   Administrative penalties for violations of various provisions of the
code, other than those penalties established in the code or in statutes that
are adopted by reference, may be established from time to time by resolution of
a majority of the members of the City Council. In order to be effective, an
administrative penalty for a particular violation must be established before
the violation occurred.
   (D)   In the discretion of the peace officer, City Clerk-Administrator-
Treasurer, or other person giving notice of an alleged violation of a provision
of this code, in a written notice of an alleged violation, sent by first class
mail to the person who is alleged to have violated the code, the person giving
notice may request the payment of a voluntary administrative penalty for the
violation directly to the City Treasurer within 14 days of the notice of the
violation. A sample notice is contained in
Appendix II of this chapter. In the sole discretion of the person giving the
notice of the alleged violation, the time for payment may be extended an
additional 14 days, whether or not requested by the person to whom the notice
has been given. In addition to the administrative penalty, the person giving
notice may request in the notice to the alleged violator to adopt a compliance
plan to correct the situation resulting in the alleged violation and may
provide that if the alleged violator corrects the situation resulting in the
alleged violation within the time specified in the notice, that the payment of
the administrative penalty will be waived.
   (E)   At any time before the payment of the administrative penalty is due,
the person who has been given notice of an alleged violation may request to
appear before the City Council to contest the request for payment of the
penalty. After a hearing before the Council, the Council may determine to
withdraw the request for payment or to renew the request for payment. Because
the payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary, there shall be no
appeal from the decision of the Council.
   (F)   At any time after the date the payment of the administrative penalty
is due, if the administrative penalty remains unpaid or the situation creating
the alleged violation remains uncorrected, the City, through its Attorney, may
bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this code. Likewise,
the City, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first instance,
rather than requesting the payment of an administrative penalty, even if a
penalty for the particular violation has been established by Council
resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the City for the alleged violation.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs
of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section or in §
10.98, if any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of
this code, the Council or any city official designated by it, may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the
violation.
APPENDIX I
RESOLUTION TO ADOPT A SCHEDULE OF OFFENSES AND VOLUNTARY ADMINISTRATIVE
PENALTIES
   WHEREAS, the City Council has adopted the provisions of §
10.98, establishing a procedure for requesting the voluntary payment of
administrative penalties for certain violations of the code; and
   WHEREAS, the provisions of §
10.98 authorize the City Council, by a resolution adopted by a majority of its
members, to identify administrative offenses and establish penalties for these
offenses;
   NOW THEREFORE, be it resolved by the City Council as follows:
 
Offense                           Code Section Amount of Administrative Penalty
All offenses for which an
administrative penalty may be                 $500.00
established under this code,
other than those specified below:
 
   EFFECTIVE DATE: The effective date of the resolution is the date of its
passage by a majority of the members of the City Council. Passage of this
resolution implements the provisions of §
10.98.
Mayor:                                                          
Attest:                                                           
   City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer
APPENDIX II
NOTICE OF CODE VIOLATION
To: (Name and address of person who is alleged to have violated the code)
From: (Name and title of city official giving the notice)
Re: Alleged violation of Section of the City Code, relating to (give title of
section)
Date: (Date of notice)
   I hereby allege that on (date of violation) you violated §                 
of the City Code relating
to                                                                                              
.
   The City Council has by resolution established an administrative penalty in
the amount of $500 for this violation.
   Payment of this administrative penalty is voluntary, but if you do not pay
it the city may initiate criminal proceedings for this alleged violation.
   Payment is due within 14 days of the date of this notice. Before the due
date, you may request an additional 14-day extension of the time to pay the
administrative penalty.
   As an alternative to the payment of this administrative penalty, if the
situation that gave rise to this alleged violation is corrected by
                        (establish date), then the payment of the
administrative penalty will be waived.
   Even if the administrative penalty is paid, the city reserves the right to
institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or
abate the violation.
   Before the due date, you may request to appear before the City Council to
contest the request for payment of the penalty. After a hearing before the
Council, the Council may determine to withdraw the request for payment or to
renew the request for payment. Because the payment of the administrative
penalty is voluntary, there shall be no appeal from the decision of the
Council.
   If you pay the administrative penalty, the city will not initiate criminal
proceedings for this alleged violation. However, the Council, or any city
official designated by it, may institute appropriate proceedings at law or at
equity to restrain, correct or abate the violation.
   Payment of the administrative penalty may be made by check, cash or money
order to the City Treasurer.
Signed:                                                               
      (Name and Title of Person Giving Notice)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY GOVERNMENT; OFFICIALS
      
31.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
32.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
33.   CITY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: CITY GOVERNMENT; OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Council; rules of procedure
   
30.02   Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer; duties
   
30.03   Mayor; term
Police Department
   
30.15   Police Department continued
   
30.16   Chief of Police
   
30.17   Duties of police
   
30.18   Uniform and badge
   
30.19   Reserve officers
   
30.20   Police Department policies manual adopted
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 COUNCIL; RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the first Monday
of each month. The first meeting in January of each year shall be the annual
meeting. The Council, at this time, shall elect an acting Mayor, designate an
official paper, select an official depository, review Council by-laws and
review committee appointments.
   (B)   All Council meetings shall be held in the Council chambers unless
changed by a majority vote of the Council. Public notice shall be given of all
meeting place changes.
   (C)   At all Council meetings, the following order of business and rules of
procedure shall be adhered to unless suspended by a majority vote of the
members:
      (1)   Call to order by the Mayor or acting Mayor;
      (2)   Approval of minutes of the previous meeting;
      (3)   Presentation of petitions or complaints by Council members or
citizens;
      (4)   (a)   Reports of officers and committees;
         (b)   Report of standing committees;
         (c)   Report of special committees; and
         (d)   Report of City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer.
      (5)   Notice of communications;
      (6)   Old business;
      (7)   Presentation of claims;
      (8)   New business;
      (9)   Announcements; and
      (10)   Adjournment.
   (D)   The presiding officer shall provide an agenda for each regular
meeting, shall maintain order at all times and shall apply the rules of
procedure, according to Roberts Rules of Order, unless contradicted by the laws
of the state. All Council members or persons wishing to speak to the Council
must be recognized by the presiding officer.
   (E)   All ordinances or amendments to ordinances shall be reduced to writing
and kept on file in the office of the City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer upon
passage.
   (F)   The Council shall approve any change of regular meeting date or place
by a majority vote of the members.
(Ord. 144, passed 11-3-75)
§ 30.02 CLERK-ADMINISTRATOR-TREASURER; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Office of Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer shall be hereafter
known as the Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer. The duties of the Clerk-
Administrator-Treasurer shall include those of the Clerk and of the Treasurer.
The Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer shall perform all statutory duties of the
Clerk and of the Treasurer and shall give the required notice of each regular
and special election, record the proceedings thereof, notify officials of their
elections or appointments to office, certify to the County Auditor all
appointments and the results of all municipal elections.
      (2)   He or she shall keep:
         (a)   A minute book, noting therein all proceedings of the Council;
         (b)   An ordinance book, in which he or she shall record, at length,
all ordinances passed by the Council;
         (c)   An account book, in which he or she shall enter all money
transactions of the municipality, including the dates and amounts of all
receipts and the person from whom the money was received and all orders drawn
upon the Treasurer with their payee and object; and
         (d)   Ordinances, resolutions and claims considered by the Council
need not be given in full in the minutes book if they appear in other permanent
records of the Clerk-Treasurer- Administrator and can be accurately identified
from the description given in the minutes.
      (3)   (a)   The Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer shall act as the Clerk and
Bookkeeper of the municipality, shall be the custodian of its seal and records,
shall sign its official papers, shall post public notices, ordinances and
resolutions as may be required and shall perform such other appropriate duties
as may be imposed upon him or her by the Council.
         (b)   For certified copies and for filing and entering, when required,
papers not relating to municipal business, he or she shall receive the fees
allowed by law to city clerks; but the Council may require the Clerk-
Administrator-Treasurer to pay the fees to the general fund.
         (c)   With the consent of the Council, he or she may appoint a deputy
for whose acts he or she shall be responsible and whom he or she may remove at
pleasure.
            1.   In case of the Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer's absence from
the municipality or disability, the Council may appoint a Deputy Clerk-
Administrator-Treasurer if there is none, to serve during the absence or
disability.
            2.   The Deputy may discharge any of the duties of the Clerk-
Administrator-Treasurer, except that he or she shall not be a member of the
Council.
   (B)   In addition to all of the foregoing, the Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer
shall:
      (1)   Direct the administration as provided by Council action, state and
federal statutes and coordinate, with the Council, in administering municipal
affairs;
      (2)   Prepare reports and summaries relating to contemplated municipal
projects and/or improvements and submit them with recommendations as may be
required to the Council for study and subsequent action;
      (3)   Prepare an annual fiscal budget and capital improvements plat for
submission to the Council and maintain financial guidelines for the
municipality within the scope of the approved budget and capital program;
      (4)   Prepare an annual financial statement and perform other duties as
required in M.S. § 412.141, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (5)   Attend and participate in all Council meetings and attend, at his
or her discretion or by invitation, other committee and commission meetings;
      (6)   Coordinate municipal programs and activities as authorized by the
Council;
      (7)   Submit quarterly reports to the Council of the financial condition
of the municipal accounts;
      (8)   Supervise the conduct of local elections in accordance with the
prescribed laws and regulations;
      (9)   Supervise the activities of all city department heads and staff in
the administration of city policy with authority to effectively recommend their
employment or removal;
      (10)      Work in cooperation with the Council's appointed attorney and
engineer;
      (11)      Prepare news releases, develop and discuss public relations
material with all concerned, as required, and maintain good public relations
with the general public;
      (12)      Consult with appointed officials and with other public or
private agencies as may be required;
      (13)      Be fully informed regarding federal, state and county programs
which affect the municipality; and
      (14)      Perform all duties required of him or her by ordinances or
resolutions adopted by the Council.
   (C)   The Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer shall have:
      (1)   Considerable knowledge of municipal government operations, proper
procedures, public relations, finances, purchasing and all administrative
requirements for proper municipal operation;
      (2)   Knowledge of or ability to acquire full knowledge of all laws
affecting the municipality;
      (3)   Ability to provide harmonious relations with municipal employees
and general public; and
      (4)   Ability to plan development, to collect material and analyze for
reporting and to conduct and implement studies of procedures, operations and
organizations.
   (D)   The Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer shall have a high school diploma or
its equivalent and experience in public administration and accounting, with a
minimum of five years experience in municipal administration or equivalent
education.
   (E)   The Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer is appointed by a majority of the
Council for an indefinite term, with removal only by a majority of the Council.
(Ord. 181, passed 10-7-96)
§ 30.03 MAYOR; TERM.
   The term of Mayor of the city shall be four years.
(Ord. 173, passed 3-4-91)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 30.15 POLICE DEPARTMENT CONTINUED.
   (A)   If the city has a Police Department at the time this code is adopted,
then the Department of the city is hereby continued. If the city does not have
a Police Department at the time of the adoption of this code, then at any time
after the code is adopted, the City Council may by resolution create a Police
Department, which shall be organized and administered as provided for by this
code. The City Council may at any time determine by resolution to discontinue
the existence of a Police Department and provide for the enforcement of state
laws and city ordinances by other means. The head of the Police Department
shall be known as the Chief of Police and the number of additional members of
the Police Department, together with their ranks and titles, shall be
determined by the City Council by resolution. The compensation to be paid to
members of the Police Department shall be fixed by the City Council. Members of
the Police Department shall be appointed by the City Council.
   (B)   All police officers shall meet the minimum standards for licensing as
a peace officer as established by the Minnesota Peace Officers Standards and
Training Board and have a current and valid peace officer license at the time
of appointment. All police officers shall retain this license during their
employment as a police officer with the city and will be subject to discharge
if the license is suspended, revoked or becomes invalid for any reason. In
addition, all police officers must have a valid Minnesota vehicle operator's
license and must be insurable as a vehicle driver by the city's automobile
insurance carrier.
§ 30.16 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall have supervision and control of the Police
Department and its members. The Chief of Police shall be responsible for the
proper training and discipline of the members of the Police Department. The
Chief of Police shall be responsible for the keeping of adequate records and
shall report to the City Council on the needs of the Police department and its
work. Every member of the Police department is subordinate to the Chief of
Police and shall obey the instructions of the Chief of Police and any superior
officer. The City Council may designate one of the police officers as Acting
Chief, who shall have all the powers and duties of the Chief of Police during
the absence or disability of the Chief of Police.
§ 30.17 DUTIES OF POLICE.
   Members of the Police Department shall enforce the laws applicable to the
city, bring violators before the court, and make complaints for offenses coming
to their knowledge. Members of the Police Department shall serve processes on
behalf of the city and shall serve those notices as may be required by the City
Council or other authority. When the city is not a party to the proceedings
involved in the process or notice, the officer shall collect the same fees as
provided by law. All fees shall be paid into the city treasury.
§ 30.18 UNIFORM AND BADGE.
   Each member of the Police Department shall, while on duty, wear a suitable
badge and uniform furnished by the city, except that the Chief of Police may
authorize the performance of specific duties while not in uniform. When a
member terminates membership in the Police Department, the member shall
immediately deliver to the city the badge, uniform and all other property of
the city.
§ 30.19 RESERVE OFFICERS.
   The Chief of Police may appoint, for a specified time, as many reserve
officers as may be necessary. Reserve officers shall be subordinate to the
Chief of Police. Under the provisions of M.S. § 626.84, Subd. 1(g), as it may
be amended from time to time, a RESERVE OFFICER is an individual whose services
are utilized by a law enforcement agency to provide supplementary assistance at
special events, traffic or crowd control, and administrative or clerical
assistance. A reserve officer's duties shall not include enforcement of the
general criminal laws of the state, and the reserve officer does not have full
powers of arrest or authorization to carry a firearm on duty.
§ 30.20 POLICE DEPARTMENT POLICIES MANUAL ADOPTED.
   The Police Department Manual, as amended, containing the general policies,
procedures and rules for operation of the Police Department of the city is
hereby adopted as the official departmental policy manual of the Police
Department.
CHAPTER 31: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
   
31.01   Library Board
   
31.02   Airport Board
   
31.03   Planning Commission
   
31.04   Public Utilities Commission
§ 31.01 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   The city hereby abolishes its five-member Library Board and
establishes a seven- member Library Board, as provided for pursuant to M.S.
Chapter 134, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Qualification for office. All Library Board members shall be of voting
age. Residents of the county may be appointed as Board members, provided that a
majority of the members are residents of the city. Not more than one City
Council member shall at any time be a member of the Library Board.
   (C)   Appointment. Library Board members will be appointed by the Mayor with
the approval of the City Council.
   (D)   (1)   Term of office. Library Board terms of office will be three
years, beginning the first day of the city's fiscal year and ending with the
last day of the city's fiscal year.
      (2)   Initially, Library Board members are appointed so that three hold
office for one year, two for two years, and two for three years.
      (3)   No Library Board member shall be eligible to serve more than three
consecutive three-year terms.
   (E)   Removal of members. The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council,
may remove any Library Board member for misconduct or neglect.
   (F)   Vacancies. The Library Board President shall report vacancies in the
Board to the City Council. The City Council shall fill the vacancies by
appointment for the unexpired term.
   (G)   Compensation. Library Board members shall receive no compensation for
their services, but may be reimbursed for actual and necessary traveling
expenses incurred in the discharge of Library Board duties and activities.
   (H)   Organization. At the annual meeting, the Library Board shall elect one
of its members as President and one member as Secretary, and may appoint such
other officers as deemed necessary.
   (I)   Duties.
      (1)   The Library Board shall have all of the powers and duties set forth
in M.S. § 134.11, except as limited herein.
      (2)   The Library Board shall adopt by-laws and regulations for the
government of the library and for the conduct of its business as may be
expedient and conformable to law. The by-laws adopted by the Library Board
shall be subject to the approval of the City Council.
      (3)   The Library Board shall have exclusive control of the expenditure
of all money collected for or placed to the credit of the Library Fund, of
interest earned on all money collected for or placed to the credit of the
Library Fund. All money received for the library shall be paid into the city
treasury, credited to the Library Fund, kept separate from other money of the
city, and paid out only upon approval by the Library Board.
      (4)   The Library Board shall have control of the room, rooms, or
building provided for library purposes.
      (5)   With the approval of the City Council, the Library Board may
purchase grounds, and erect a library building thereon.
      (6)   The Library Board shall appoint a qualified Library Director and
other staff as necessary.
      (7)   The Library Board shall establish the compensation for its
employees and have the authority to remove any of them for cause.
   (J)   Gifts. With the consent of the City Council, expressed by resolution,
the Library Board may accept any gift, grant, devise, or bequest made or
offered by any person for public library purposes.
(Ord. 168, passed 2-6-84; Am. Ord. 193, passed 3-6-06)
§ 31.02 AIRPORT BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby created a board to be known as the Airport
Board, which shall consist of four members, one of whom shall, at all times, be
a member of the City Council.
      (2)   The members of this Board shall serve without compensation. The
members of this Board shall be appointed by a majority vote of the members of
the City Council. The members appointed shall be for a term of three years; all
appointments shall terminate on the date of the annual meeting of the Airport
Board, as hereinafter provided. All members shall hold office until their
respective successors are appointed and qualified.
      (3)   A vacancy in the office of any member shall be filled in the same
manner as the original appointment but only for the unexpired terms.
      (4)   All members shall file their acceptance with the City Council
within five days after notice of their appointment.
   (B)   (1)   The Airport Board shall meet within one week after members have
filed their notices of acceptance of appointment and at the meetings shall
organize and elect officers from their members as they may determine.
      (2)   The Board shall organize in the same manner at their meeting to be
held in the month of January in each calendar year. The Board to determine the
date during the month when the meeting shall be held and the Board shall meet
at such other times as they shall determine it to be necessary, the meeting to
be called by the President of the Board by giving oral or written notice one
day in advance of the meeting.
      (3)   The presiding officer of the Board shall be the President and he or
she shall preside at all meetings and, in the event of his or her absence, the
Vice President shall preside. All contracts, orders and other documents to be
executed in behalf of the Board shall be signed by the presiding officer and
the Secretary thereof.
   (C)   (1)   The Board shall have charge of the administration, maintenance
and control of the Municipal Airport. The Board shall have such traditional
powers, duties and responsibilities as shall, by resolution of the City Council
from time to time, be granted to the Board. The Board shall have power to
receive and accept, according to their terms, all donations for airport
purposes; to collect all license fees and other airport income; to establish
rules relating to its own procedure and to the administration, maintenance and
control of the airport.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to vest any power in the
Board to construct any additional airport facilities or structures, the powers
to be in the City Council subject to prior approval and recommendation of the
Planning Commission. No money shall be expended by the Board without prior
approval of the City Council. The Board shall from time to time report to and
confer with the City Council on all matters of legislative or administrative
character and shall keep a record of its own proceedings. Reports are to be
made annually to the Council or more often if required by the Council, an
annual report to be made to the Council at its regular meeting in the month of
December of each year.
   (D)   Whenever a majority of the City Council deems, for the best interests
of the airport and its affairs, it may remove any member of the Board.
   (E)   The City Council reserves the right, at all times, to cancel or change
any orders or decisions the Board may make in respect to any affairs of the
airport.
(Ord. 117, passed 4-1-68)
§ 31.03 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission for the city is hereby established.
   (B)   (1)   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members. Four
members shall be appointed by the City Council and may be removed by a four-
fifths vote of the Council. The City Engineer and the City Attorney shall be
members ex officio and the Council shall select one member of the Commission
from among its own members.
      (2)   (a)   Members shall by appointed for terms of four years, holding
their offices until their successors are appointed and qualified.
         (b)   The terms of ex officio members shall correspond to their
respective official tenures. Vacancies during the term shall be filled by the
Council for the unexpired portion of the term. Every appointed member shall
before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties take an oath that he or
she will faithfully discharge the duties of his or her office. All members
shall serve without compensation.
   (C)   (1)   The Commission shall elect a Chairperson from among its
appointed members for a term of one year and the Commission may create and fill
other offices as it may determine. The Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer shall act
as Secretary of the Planning Commission, but he or she shall not be a member.
      (2)   The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting each month.
It shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of
its resolutions, transactions and findings, which record shall be a public
record. On or before January 1 of each year, the Commission shall submit to the
City Council a report of its work during the preceding year. Expenditures of
the Commission shall be within amounts appropriated for the purpose by the City
Council.
   (D)   (1)   Upon the appointment and organization of the Commission, it
shall proceed with the preparation and adoption of resolution of a program of
work outlining activities proposed to be undertaken in the exercise of its
powers and the performance of its duties.
      (2)   The program will include:
         (a)   An outline of data and information to be assembled as a basis
for the city plan;
         (b)   An outline of subjects to be covered by the city plan; and
         (c)   An outline of types of procedure necessary to make the city plan
effective.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may, by resolution, revise its program of
work from time to time.
   (E)   It shall be the function and duty of the Planning Commission to
prepare and adopt a comprehensive city plan for the physical development of the
city, including proposed public buildings, street arrangements and
improvements, public utility services, parks, playgrounds and other similar
developments and the use of property, the density of population and other
matters relating to the physical development of the city. The plan may be
prepared in sections each of which shall relate to a major subject of the plan,
as outlined in the Commission’s program of work.
   (F)   (1)   Before adopting the city plan for any section of it or any
substantial amendment thereof, the Commission shall hold at least one public
hearing thereon, notice of the time and place of which shall be given by
publication in a newspaper of general circulation at least ten days before the
day of the hearing. The adoption of the city plan or of any section or
amendment thereof shall be by resolution of the Commission, approved by the
affirmative votes of not less than four-fifths of its total membership.
      (2)   The Commission may from time to time amend or add to the city plan
or section thereof as herein provided for the adoption of the original plan
whenever changed conditions or further studies by the Commission indicate that
the amendment or addition is necessary.
      (3)   An attested copy of the plan or of any section, amendment or
addition to the city plan adopted by the Planning Commission shall be certified
by the City Council.
   (G)   (1)   Upon the adoption of the city plan or any section thereof, it
shall be the duty of the Planning Commission to recommend to the City Council
reasonable and practical means for putting into effect the plan or section
thereof in order that the same will serve as a pattern and guide for the
orderly physical development of the city and as a basis for the efficient
expenditure of the funds thereof relating to the subjects of the plan.
      (2)   The means shall consist of a zoning plan, the control of
subdivision plats, a plan of future streets, coordination of the normal public
improvements of the city, a long term program of capital expenditures and other
matters as will accomplish the purpose hereof.
   (H)   The Planning Commission, upon its own motion, may and, upon
instructions by the City Council, shall prepare a revised zoning plan for the
city. Before recommending the plan to the City Council, the Planning Commission
shall hold at least one public hearing thereon after a notice similar to that
required by division (F) above. The same procedure shall apply for the
preparation of any plan of proposed right-of-way for future streets or highways
or the future widening of existing streets or highways, or for the reservation
of lands for other purposes.
   (I)   (1)   The Planning Commission, with the assistance of the City
Engineer, may and, upon the instruction by the City Council, shall prepare an
official map of the platted and unplatted portions of the city and adjoining
territory or portions thereof indicating upon the map the proposed future
extension or widening of streets of the city within the existing platted and
developed, territory or across the unplatted territory.
      (2)   After the map has been prepared and a hearing on it has been held,
as provided in division (H) above, it shall be submitted to the Council, which
shall thereupon consider the map and may adopt it or any part of it with the
amendments as it deems advisable.
      (3)   Before adoption by the Council, a public hearing shall be held upon
the proposal at least ten days after a notice thereof has been published in a
newspaper published in the city.
      (4)   After the map has been adopted by the Council and filed with the
Register of Deeds whenever any existing street or highway is widened or
improved, or any new street is opened, or lands for other public purpose are
acquired by action of the city, it shall not be required of the proceedings to
pay for any building or structure placed without a permit or in violation of
conditions of a permit after the filing of a map within the limits of the
mapped street or outside of any building line that may have been established
upon the existing street, or within any area, thus reserved for public
purposes.
   (J)   (1)   Every proposed plat of land within the city or within two miles
of the units of the city and not within a town which itself requires the
approval of plats shall be submitted to the City Council before being filed and
no plat of land shall be filed unless and until the same shall first have been
approved by the City Council.
      (2)   Any person who violated this provision or who sells land or offers
land for sale or contracts for the sale of land by reference to or her other
use of any plat before the plat has been approved by the Planning Commission
and the City Council in accordance with the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine. Before acting on the plat, the City Council shall submit the same to the
Planning Commission for its recommendations.
      (3)   The Planning Commission, within 40 days after any such plat has
been referred to it by the City Council, shall act on the same and shall make
its recommendations with respect thereto. The recommendations may consist of:
         (a)   Recommendation that the City Council approve the plat;
         (b)   Recommendation that the City Council disapprove the plat, in
which case the recommendation shall include a statement of the specific reasons
of the recommendation; or
         (c)   Recommendation that the City Council approve the plat after
specified changes for revisions are made therein, which recommendation may
include the condition that a revised plat containing the changes or provisions
be submitted to the Planning Commission in which case the revised plat shall be
so submitted to the Planning Commission for its further consideration and
recommendations before action thereon by the City Council. The City Council
must either approve or deny an application for a preliminary plat within 120
days after a complete application for a preliminary plat has been received,
unless a longer time has been agreed to in writing by the applicant. The City
Council must either approve or deny an application for a final plat within 60
days after a complete application for a final plat has been received, unless a
longer time has been agreed to in writing by the application.
   (K)   No change shall be made in the zoning plan, future street and public
lands plan or regulations governing the platting of land after the plans or
regulations have been adopted by the City Council until the proposed change has
been referred to the Planning Commission for report thereon and an attested
copy of the report has been filed with the Council and the ordinance or
resolution or establishment of any of the plans or specifications shall be
adopted by the City Council until the ordinance or resolution has been referred
in the Planning Commission for a report thereon and an attested copy of the
report has been filed with the Council. Failure of the Planning Commission so
to report within 40 days or such longer period, as may be designated by the
Council, after the reference shall be deemed to be approved of the proposed
change.
   (L)   (1)   Each officer, department, board or commission of or in the city
whose functions include recommending, preparing plans for or constructing
public works shall, at least three months before the end of each fiscal year,
submit to the Planning Commission a list of the proposed works recommended by
the officer, department, board or commission for planning, initiation or
constructing during the ensuing fiscal year. The Planning Commission shall
request from the local school district a similar list of its proposed public
works. The Planning Commission shall list and classify all such proposed public
works and shall prepare a coordinated program of proposed public works for the
ensuing fiscal year.
      (2)   The program shall be recommended by the Commission to the Council
and to such other officers, departments, boards or public bodies as have
jurisdiction over the recommending, planning or constructing of public works. A
copy of the recommended program of public works shall be included in the annual
report of the Planning Commission provided for in division (C) above.
(Ord. 109, passed 2-17-66)
§ 31.04 PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Public Utilities Commission of the
city, as authorized by M.S. §§ 412.321 to 412.391, as amended from time to
time.
   (B)   The Commission shall consist of three members appointed by the City
Council. No more than one member may be chosen from the City Council
membership.
   (C)   The members shall serve a three-year overlapping term, commencing in
January of their appointed year.
   (D)   The provisions of M.S. § 412.341, as it may be amended from time to
time, shall apply to the composition, terms, appointment qualifications and
removal of members of the Commission.
   (E)   The Public Utilities Commission shall have jurisdiction over the light
and power system and shall have the powers and duties prescribed by law.
   (F)   The Commission shall annually choose a President from among its own
members. The Commission shall also appoint a Secretary for an indefinite term.
The Secretary need not be a member of the Commission, and may be the Clerk/
Administrator/Treasurer.
   (G)   Each Commission member shall receive $40 for each regular and special
Commission meeting attended.
   (H)   In addition, each Commission member shall receive $40 per diem for
attending approved seminars, workshops or training, or authorized official
business.
   (I)   The Commission members shall be paid once a year for meetings
attended. Payment shall be made after the regular December City Council meeting
each year.
(Ord. 107, passed 10-4-65; Am. Ord. 192, passed 12-5-05)
CHAPTER 32: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
32.01   Policy and purpose
   
32.02   Definitions
   
32.03   Establishment of emergency management organization
   
32.04   Powers and duties of Director
   
32.05   Local emergencies
   
32.06   Emergency regulations
   
32.07   Emergency management a government function
   
32.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
   
32.09   Emergency fees
 
   
32.99   Penalty
§ 32.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action, or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in
order to insure that preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with
those disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to
protect the public peace, health, and safety, and to preserve the lives and
property of the people of this city, it is hereby found and declared to be
necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters.
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters.
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and other
political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions.
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
§ 32.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado, and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action, or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, fire-fighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological, and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. Emergency
management includes those activities sometimes referred to as “civil defense”
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers, and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city-level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state, and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 32.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is hereby created within the city government an emergency management
organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director shall be
appointed by the City Council for an indefinite term and may be removed by the
Council at any time. The Director shall serve with a salary as established by
the City Council and shall be paid his or her necessary expenses. The Director
shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration and
operation of the emergency preparedness organization, subject to the direction
and control of the Council.
§ 32.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director shall represent the city on any regional or state
conference for emergency management. The Director shall develop proposed mutual
aid agreements with other political subdivisions of the state for reciprocal
emergency management aid and assistance in an emergency too great to be dealt
with unassisted, and shall present these agreements to the Council for its
action. These arrangements shall be consistent with the State Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources, and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards, and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for the
emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty
of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may
be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the
emergency management activities of the city to the end that they shall be
consistent and fully integrated with the emergency plans of the federal
government and the state and correlated with emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the State and City Emergency Plan, the Director
shall institute training programs, public information programs and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the City Emergency Plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies, and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to
the maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city
departments and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate
with and extend services and facilities to the city's emergency management
organization and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or
agency in cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning
and programming of those emergency activities as will involve the utilization
of the facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting, and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that
emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency operational capability in the several services as
provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules, and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 32.05 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three days
except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order, or proclamation
declaring, continuing, or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk-
Administrator-Treasurer.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.06 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary, to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations,
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting: the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance, and safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health,
fire, and safety regulations, drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training, and all other matters which are required to protect
public safety, health, and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk-Administrator-
Treasurer. A copy shall be kept posted and available for public inspection
during business hours. Notice of the existence of these regulations and their
availability for inspection at the City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer's Office
shall be conspicuously posted at the front of the city hall or other
headquarters of the city or at other places in the affected area as the Council
shall designate in the resolution. By resolution, the Council may modify or
rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time. If
not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after
its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule, or regulation inconsistent with an
emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions of M.S.
§ 12.31, as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding any
statutory provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council, acting
within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into contracts and
incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting the health and
safety of persons and property and providing emergency assistance to the
victims of a disaster. The city may exercise these powers in the light of the
exigencies of the disaster without compliance with the time-consuming
procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the performance of
public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of supplies and
materials, limitations upon tax levies, and the appropriation and expenditure
of public funds, including, but not limited to, publication of resolutions,
publication of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and rules,
provisions relating to low bids, and requirement for bids.
Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.07 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he would otherwise
be entitled under this resolution or under the worker's compensation law, or
under any pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any benefits or
compensation under any act of Congress.
§ 32.08 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The emergency management organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
§ 32.09 EMERGENCY FEES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. This section is adopted for the purpose of
authorizing the City of Elbow Lake to impose on and collect fees from persons
or entities to which the city provides fire service pursuant to an agreement or
anyone who receives fire service as authorized by M.S. §§ 366.011, 366.012, and
415.01.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FIRE PROTECTION CONTRACT. A contract between the city and a town,
township, or other city for the city to provide fire service.
      FIRE SERVICE. Any deployment of firefighting personnel, first responders
and/or equipment to extinguish a fire, perform any preventative measure in an
effort to protect equipment, life, or property in an area threatened by fire,
or provide first responder services. It also includes the deployment of
firefighting personnel (including first responders) and/or equipment to provide
fire suppression, rescue, extrication, and any other services related to fire,
rescue or emergency services as may occasionally occur.
      FIRE SERVICE CHARGE. The charge imposed by the city for receiving fire
service.
      LAST KNOWN ADDRESS. The address shown on the records of the Office of the
County Treasurer or a more recent address known to the fire department. In the
case of parties not listed in these records, the last known address shall be
the address obtained by the fire department after a reasonable search.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed and originally
manufactured to operate primarily upon public roads and highways, and not
operated exclusively upon railroad tracks. It includes semi-trailers. It does
not include snowmobiles, manufactured homes, all-terrain vehicles, or park
trailers.
      MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT. An agreement between the city and a town, township
or other city for the city's fire department to provide assistance to the fire
department of a town, township, or other city.
      PARTY. Anyone who receives fire service as a result of an incident,
event, or accident within the city or a city or township serviced by a fire
protection contract or mutual aid agreement.
   (C)   Parties affected.
      (1)   Owners of property within the city who receive fire service.
      (2)   Anyone who receives fire service as a result of a motor vehicle
accident or fire within the city.
      (3)   Owners of property in towns or cities to which the city provides
fire service pursuant to a fire protection contract.
   (D)   Rates for fire service. The City Council shall determine, on an annual
basis, the rates per run for car accidents, extrication, rescue calls, or such
other fire service as may be provided by the fire department, and shall pass by
resolution the current fees to be charged for such service.
   (E)   Billing and collection.
      (1)   Parties requesting and/or receiving fire services will be billed
directly by the city within 30 days of the fire service. Additionally, if the
party receiving fire services did not request services, which at the discretion
of the fire department personnel in charge required fire service, the party
will be charged and billed. All parties will be billed whether or not the fire
service is covered by insurance. Any billable amount of the fire charge not
covered by a party's insurance remains a debt of the party receiving the fire
service.
      (2)   Parties billed for fire service will have 30 days to pay. If the
fire service charge is not paid by that time, it will be considered delinquent
and the city will send a notice of delinquency.
      (3)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after this
notice of delinquency is sent, the city will use all practical and reasonable
legal means to collect the fire service charge. The party receiving fire
service shall be liable for all collection costs incurred by the city
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
      (4)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after the
notice of delinquency is sent, the City Council may also, on or before October
15 of each year, certify the unpaid fire service charge to the County Auditor
in which the recipient of the services owns real property for collection with
property taxes. The County Auditor is responsible for remitting to the city all
charges collected on behalf of the city. The city must give the property owner
notice of its intent to certify the unpaid fire service charge by September 15.
   (F)   Mutual aid and fire protection agreements. When the city fire
department provides fire service to another fire department pursuant to a
mutual aid agreement, the billing will be determined by the mutual aid
agreement. When the city fire department provides fire services to another fire
department pursuant to a fire protection contract, the billing will be
determined by the contract.
   (G)   Application of collections to budget. All collected fire charges will
be city funds and used to offset the expenses of the city fire department in
providing fire services.
(Ord. passed 7-5-16)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any regulation
adopted thereunder relating to acts, omissions, or conduct other than official
acts of city employees or officers is guilty of a misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 33: CITY POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Election dates
§ 33.01 ELECTION DATES.
   The regular city election shall be held on the first Tuesday after the first
Monday in November in even numbered years.
(Ord. 104, passed 7-1-63)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   UTILITY BILLING AND COLLECTION
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Accumulation; litter
   
50.03   Disposal required; dumpsters
   
50.04   Containers
   
50.05   Rates and charges
   
50.06   Authority and power
   
50.07   Hauling
§ 50.01DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRACT. The contract between the city and a disposal facility. A photocopy
of the contract shall remain on file in the office of the City Clerk-
Administrator-Treasurer.
   GARBAGE. Organic waste resulting from the preparation of food and decayed
and spoiled food from any source.
   REFUSE. Garbage and rubbish.
   RUBBISH. Inorganic solid waste such as tin cans, glass, paper, ashes,
sweepings and the like.
(Ord. 166, passed - -)
§ 50.02 ACCUMULATION; LITTER.
   (A)   Any unauthorized accumulation of refuse on any premises is a nuisance
and prohibited.
   (B)   No person shall place any refuse in any street, alley or public place
or upon any private property except in containers for collection. No person
shall throw or deposit refuse in any stream or other body of water.
   (C)   No person shall deposit anywhere within the city any refuse in a
manner that it may be carried or deposited by the elements upon any public or
private premises within the city.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall bury any refuse in the city, except in an
approved sanitary landfill, but leaves, grass clippings and easily
biodegradable, non-poisonous garbage may be composted on the premises where the
refuse has been accumulated.
      (2)   Garbage may be composted only in a rodent proof structure and in an
otherwise sanitary manner and after the Council gives its approval to the
composting after it finds that the composting will be done in accordance with
these standards.
(Ord. 166, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 DISPOSAL REQUIRED; DUMPSTERS.
   (A)   Every person or entity shall, in a sanitary manner, dispose of refuse
that may accumulate upon property owned or occupied by him or her. The city,
through the waste area district, has contracted disposal services for all city
residential and commercial places. Each owner or occupant within the city shall
pay a set fee for this service and shall have this service available to him or
her.
(Ord. 166, passed - -)
   (B)   (1)   Use of public dumpsters located on public property by private
individuals is prohibited unless one of the following sets of circumstances
appears:
         (a)   The individual using the dumpster was disposing of refuse which
had accumulated on public property;
         (b)   The person using the public dumpster was using the public
property for the purpose of recreation; or
         (c)   The person using the public dumpster was depositing litter which
had been deposited by persons unknown unto public streets or highways.
      (2)   A person using public dumpsters to deposit household trash from his
or her residence is prima facie evidence of a violation of this division (B).
(Ord. 158, passed 9-8-80)
   (C)   The dumping and deposit of garbage on city-owned property sites within
or without the city limits, other than in waste containers provided for that
specific purpose, is hereby prohibited. However, the dumping or deposit of
brush, as defined herein, is not included in this prohibition.
(Ord. 156, passed 7-2-79)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   (1)   No one container may be more than 30 gallons, nor weigh more
than 50 pounds.
      (2)   Where plastic bags are used as the container, the minimum strength
must be two mils.
      (3)   Other restrictions as contained in the contract are incorporated
herein by reference.
   (B)   Containers must be placed within five feet of the curb for collection.
   (C)   The number of containers that residences and commercial places may
leave out is unlimited.
(Ord. 166, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any premises within the city shall pay to the
city a minimum service charge assessed by ordinance.
   (B)   The service charge shall be made to the owner or occupant of each
building or housing unit served. If the building is served by city water, sewer
or electricity, the refuse collection charge shall be billed on the billing.
   (C)   Service charges shall be payable at the same time as bills for water
service and subject to the same conditions of payment.
   (D)   All service charges shall be deposited in the General Fund of the
city.
(Ord. 166, passed - -)
§ 50.06 AUTHORITY AND POWER.
   The City Council shall have the power to establish regulations by resolution
for the implementation of this chapter.
(Ord. 166, passed - -)
§ 50.07 HAULING.
   No person shall maintain a regular route for the collection and disposition
of garbage and rubbish for hire without first having secured a license therefor
from Grant County.
(Ord. 95, passed 4-4-60) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   General operation
   
51.02   Use of water service
   
51.03   Use to circumvent chapter prohibited
   
51.04   Damage to water system
   
51.05   Connections beyond city boundaries
   
51.06   Connection to system required; use of private wells
   
51.07   Use of water for air conditioning; permits
   
51.08   Use of water from fire hydrants; temporary connections
   
51.09   Water deficiency, shut off and use restrictions
Water Regulations
   
51.25   Supply from one service
   
51.26   Tapping of mains restricted
   
51.27   Repairs
   
51.28   Abandoned or unused services
   
51.29   Disconnection permit
   
51.30   Service pipes
   
51.31   Excavation and construction requirements
   
51.32   Connection to other water supplies restricted
   
51.33   Water connections; applications and charges
   
51.34   Location of curb stop box
   
51.35   Water meters
Rates and Charges
   
51.50   Water unit
   
51.51   Rates, fees and charges generally
   
51.52   Water service billing; change of address
   
51.53   Water rates
   
51.54   Payment of charges; late payment; collection
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.70   Supervision by Utilities Superintendent; licensing
   
51.71   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
51.72   Discontinuance of service
   
51.73   Authorized employees to turn water on and off
   
51.74   Liability for expense, loss or damage
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 GENERAL OPERATION.
   The city does hereby make provision for the establishment of a municipal
water system (hereinafter called the water system) to be operated as a public
utility.
§ 51.02 USE OF WATER SERVICE.
   No person other than a city employee shall uncover or make or use any water
service installation connected to the city water system except in the manner
provided by this chapter. No person shall make or use any installation contrary
to the regulatory provisions of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03 USE TO CIRCUMVENT CHAPTER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall permit water from the water system to be used for any
purpose to circumvent this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04 DAMAGE TO WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall remove or damage any structure,
appurtenance, or part of the water system or fill or partially fill any
excavation or move any gate valve used in the water system.
   (B)   No person shall make any connection of an electrical welder to the
city water main, appurtenance or service or use an electric welder for the
purpose of thawing frozen water mains, appurtenances or services.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05 CONNECTIONS BEYOND CITY BOUNDARIES.
   Where water mains of the city are in any street or alley adjacent to or
outside the corporate limits of the city, the City Council may issue permits to
the owners or occupants of properties adjacent or accessible to the water main
to make proper water service pipe connections with the water mains of the city
and to be supplied with water in conformity with the applicable provisions of
this chapter and subject to any contract for the supply of water between the
city and any other city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.06 CONNECTION TO SYSTEM REQUIRED; USE OF PRIVATE WELLS.
   (A)   Except where municipal water is not available, it shall be unlawful to
construct, reconstruct, or repair any private water system which is designed or
intended to provide water for human consumption. Private wells, to provide
water for other than human consumption, may be constructed, maintained and
continued in use after connection is made to the water system; provided, there
is no means of cross-connection between the private well and municipal water
supply at any time. Hose bibbs that will enable the cross-connection of the two
systems are prohibited on internal piping of the well system supply. Where both
private and city systems are in use, outside hose bibbs shall not be installed
on both systems.
   (B)   All new homes or buildings shall connect to the municipal water system
if water is available to the property. At the time as municipal water becomes
available to existing homes or buildings, a direct connection shall be made to
the public system within a period of time as determined by the City Council. If
the connection is not made pursuant to this chapter, a charge shall be made in
an amount established by §
51.51.
   (C)   Where new homes or buildings do not have water available to the
property, the city shall determine whether and under what conditions the
municipal water system will be extended to serve the property.
   (D)   If the well is not to be used after the time a municipal water
connection is made:
      (1)   The well pump and tank shall be disconnected from all internal
piping;
      (2)   The casing shall be filled with sandy soil from the bottom to a
point eight feet from the top;
      (3)   The remaining eight feet shall be filled with concrete to the floor
level and the well casing cut off as close to the floor level as possible;
      (4)   Within 30 days after the municipal water connection is made, the
owner or occupant must advise the City Utilities Superintendent that the well
has been sealed.
      (5)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, all well abandonment shall be done
in accordance with M.S. §§ 103I.301 to 103I.345 and Minn. Rules Ch. 4725, Wells
and Borings, as it may be amended from time to time.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.07 USE OF WATER FOR AIR CONDITIONING; PERMITS.
   (A)   All air conditioning systems which are connected directly or
indirectly with the public water system must be equipped with water conserving
and water regulating devices as approved by the City Engineer or City Utilities
Superintendent.
   (B)   Permits shall be required for the installation of all air conditioning
systems to the public water system. The fee shall be established pursuant to §
51.51.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.08 USE OF WATER FROM FIRE HYDRANTS; TEMPORARY CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Use of fire hydrants. Except for extinguishment of fires, no person,
unless authorized by the Public Works Director or Public Utilities Department,
shall operate fire hydrants or interfere in any way with the water system
without first obtaining a permit to do so from the city as follows:
      (1)   A permit to use a fire hydrant shall be issued for each individual
job or contract and for a minimum of 30 days and for the additional 30 day
period as the city shall determine. The permit shall state the location of the
hydrant and shall be for the use of that hydrant and none other.
      (2)   The user shall make an advance cash deposit to guarantee payment
for water used and to cover breakage and damage to the hydrant and meter, which
shall be refunded upon expiration of the permit, less applicable charges for
use.
      (3)   The user shall relinquish the use of the hydrant to authorized city
employees in emergency situations.
      (4)   The user shall pay a rental charge as established pursuant to §
51.51 for each day including Sundays and legal holidays, and a fee as
established by ordinance, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time
for each 1,000 gallons of water used.
   (B)   Temporary connection to fire hydrants. An owner of a private water
system may make a temporary above ground connection to a fire hydrant, subject
to the time periods, conditions, and payment specified in §
51.51. In addition, the method of connection to the private system shall
conform to all existing requirements of this chapter and city ordinance and the
type of meter used shall meet the approval of the Utilities Superintendent.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.09 WATER DEFICIENCY, SHUT OFF AND USE RESTRICTIONS.
   The city shall not be liable for any deficiency or failure in the supply of
water to consumers, whether occasioned by shutting the water off for the
purpose of making repairs or connections or from any other cause whatsoever. In
case of fire, or alarm of fire, or in making repairs of construction of new
works, water may be shut off without notice at any time and kept off as long as
necessary. In addition, the City Council shall have the right to impose
reasonable restrictions on the use of the city water system in emergency
situations. For non-payment of charges, water service may be discontinued
according to the procedures established in §
51.72.
WATER REGULATIONS
§ 51.25 SUPPLY FROM ONE SERVICE.
   No more than one housing unit or building shall be supplied from one service
connection except by permission of City Council. Each unit served shall have a
separate water meter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.26 TAPPING OF MAINS RESTRICTED.
   No person, except persons authorized by the City Council, shall tap any
distributing main or pipe of the water supply system or insert stopcocks or
ferrules therein.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.27 REPAIRS.
   (A)   Determination of need for repairs. Based on the information supplied
by the property owner or available to the city, the city will make a
determination whether a problem exists in that portion of the service which is
the city's responsibility. If the problem, appears to exist in the areas for
which the city has no responsibility, the private owners will be responsible
for correction of the problem.
   (B)   Thawing of water services. The city will attempt to thaw water
services on request of the resident. If the problem is found within that
portion of the service for which the private owner is responsible, the private
owner thereafter will be responsible for thawing the service and correction of
the problem.
   (C)   Excavation or repair of water service.
      (1)   The city will arrange for the investigative digging up and repair
of any water service where the problem apparently exists within that area for
which the city has responsibility.
      (2)   Unless it is clearly evident, however, that the problem is the
responsibility of the city, the excavation and repair will not be made until
the property owner requests the city in writing to excavate or repair the
service and agrees to pay the cost.
      (3)   The owner further agrees to waive public hearing and be special
assessed the cost of the excavation and repair if the problem is found to be
other than the city's responsibility. The city will make the determination for
responsibility of the cost of investigation or repair.
      (4)   The matter of whether the dig up is done by city forces or
contracted would depend on the urgency or need of repair and the availability
of city forces to do the work. Recovery by the city for faulty construction
will depend upon the circumstances and the decision of the City Attorney on the
likelihood of recovery.
   (D)   Failure to repair. In case of failure upon the part of any consumer or
owner to repair any leak occurring in his or her service pipe within 24 hours
after verbal or written notice thereof, the water may be turned off by the city
and shall not be turned on until the leak has been repaired and a fee pursuant
to §
51.51 has been paid to the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.28 ABANDONED OR UNUSED SERVICES.
   (A)   If the premises served by water have been abandoned, or if the service
has not been used for one year, then the service shall be shut off at the curb
stop box by the city and the water meter will be removed.
   (B)   When new buildings are erected on the site of old ones, and it is
desired to increase or change the old water service, no connections with the
mains shall be made until all the old service has been removed and the main
taps plugged or yoked connections installed by the city at the owner's expense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.29 DISCONNECTION PERMIT.
   A permit must be obtained to disconnect from the existing water service
leads at the curb stop box. The fee for the permit shall be set pursuant to §
51.51.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.30 SERVICE PIPES.
   Every service pipe shall be laid so as to allow at least one foot of extra
length in order to prevent rupture by settlement. The service pipe must be
placed no less than seven feet below the ground and in a manner as to prevent
rupture by freezing. Service pipes must extend from the curb stop box to the
inside of the building, or if not taken into the building, then to the hydrant
or fixtures which it is intended to supply. Type K copper tubing shall be used.
All services over two inches shall be ductile or cast iron. All underground
joints are to be mechanical, except joints under floors shall be silver
soldered, unless otherwise approved by the Utilities Superintendent. Joints of
copper tubing shall be kept, to a minimum, with not more than one joint used
for service for each 70 feet in length. Splicing may be approved with three-
piece unions only. All joints and connections shall be left uncovered until
inspected by the Utilities Superintendent and tested at normal water line
pressure. Unions must be three-part type. All services over two inches shall be
cast iron. Connections with the mains for domestic supply shall be at least
three-quarter inch up to the curb stop box.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.31 EXCAVATION AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No excavation shall be made until a permit for the connection has been
issued by the city.
   (B)   No water service pipe or water connection shall be installed in the
same trench or closer than ten feet horizontally to a sewer trench or drain
laid, or to be laid, either in the street or in private property, except that
the water pipe on private property may be in a common trench with a sewer drain
which is of a material that is in conformance with the current Minnesota
Plumbing Code, Minn. Rules Ch. 4715, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Where it is desired to lay the water service pipe and the building
sewer pipe in the same trench, or in separate trenches less than ten feet
apart, the water service pipe shall be above the sewer pipe unless approved by
the City Engineer. It shall be placed at least one foot above the sewer and on
a solid shelf excavated at one side of the trench. The sewer pipe shall be of a
material that is in conformance with the Minnesota Plumbing Code with tested
watertight joints. The water service pipe shall be watertight and corrosion
resistant. Copper pipe and ductile or cast iron water pipe with specially
protected joints is acceptable for this construction. Cast iron pipe shall
conform to the American Water Works Association specifications for this pipe.
Bell joint clamps with rubber gaskets are provisionally acceptable as extra
protection for the joints on cast iron water pipe. In all cases, precautions
shall be taken to assure a firm foundation for the pipes. The intervening space
between the pipes shall be backfilled with compacted earth.
   (D)   In case the installation is on a surfaced street, the following shall
apply: All backfill materials shall be mechanically compacted in 12-inch layers
to the density of the adjacent material in the roadway area and to the existing
street grades in accordance with the Minnesota Department of Transportation
Standards. Complete surface restoration shall be made.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.32 CONNECTION TO OTHER WATER SUPPLIES RESTRICTED.
   No water pipe of the water system shall be connected with any pump, well,
tank, or piping that is connected with any other source of water supply except
to service municipal systems.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.33 WATER CONNECTIONS; APPLICATIONS AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Connection applications.
      (1)   All applications for service installations and for water service
shall be made to the City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer. All applications for
service installations and water service shall be made by the owner or agent of
the property to be served and shall state the size and location of service
connection required. The applicant shall, at the time of making application,
pay to the city the amount of fees as established by ordinance, as that
ordinance may be amended from time to time or deposit required for the
installation of the service connection as hereinafter provided. Applications
for services larger than one inch shall be accompanied by two sets of plans or
sketches indicating preferred location of service pipe and size of service
based on building demand.
      (2)   The size of the water service connections and meter shall be
subject to approval of the City Engineer.
      (3)   Water billing shall start at the time of installation of the water
meter, or in the event the meter is not installed, seven days after completion
of outside piping, and shall be calculated upon the minimum quarterly rate,
prorated on a semi-monthly basis.
   (B)   Connection charges.
      (1)   A permit must be obtained to connect to the existing water service
leads at the curb stop box. The fee for the permit shall be set pursuant to §
51.51. The city shall install or have installed all service connections from
the water main to the curb stop box including the stop box. Payment for service
connections must be made before the work is started and should be based upon 1½
times the estimate of costs provided by the City Engineer. Any excess deposit
shall be returned to the applicant.
      (2)   Additional charges shall be paid at the time of making application
for tapping and making connections with the water main to where a curb stop box
and service lead is not previously installed. The charge shall include the
tapping of the water main, corporation cocks, the installation of a service
line, the installation of a curb stop box, cost of restoring disturbed areas
and all other costs related to the installation.
      (3)   There shall be a connection charge pursuant to §
51.51 levied by the city to contribute to the payment of the costs of the
Public Water System Facilities. The City Council shall set by resolution the
charges to be made for nonresidential installations.
      (4)   When water services have been stopped because of a violation of
this chapter, the city shall collect the fee established pursuant to §
51.51 before service is recommenced.
      (5)   If a person desires to connect to the system and service a parcel
that has not been assessed for the cost of water main and lateral construction,
then before a permit is granted, the city shall collect an amount from the
applicant that is established pursuant to §
51.51.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.34 LOCATION OF CURB STOP BOX.
   Curb stop boxes will be installed on the right-of-way line or easement
limits at a location as determined by the City Engineer to be best suitable to
the property and shall be left in a vertical position when backfilling is
completed. Curb stop boxes will be installed at an approximate depth of seven
feet below the finished ground elevation and the top of the curb stop box shall
be adjusted to be flush with the finished ground elevation. Curb stop boxes
must be firmly supported by a masonry block. No person shall erect any fence or
plant any tree or other landscaping that would obstruct, or place a structure
on, park a motor vehicle on, or otherwise obstruct the use of the curb stop
box, or cause damage to the same.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.35 WATER METERS.
   (A)   Generally. Except for extinguishment of fires, no person, unless
otherwise authorized by the City Council or Public Utilities Department, shall
use water from the water system or permit water to be drawn therefrom unless
the same be metered by passing through a meter supplied or approved by the
city. No person not authorized by the City Council or Utilities Superintendent
shall connect, disconnect, take apart, or in any manner change or cause to be
changed or interfere with any meter or the action thereof, or break any meter
or valve seal.
      (1)   A charge established pursuant to §
51.51 shall be paid by customers to the city for water meters including
installations and check valves and payment for same shall be made at the time
of water service application. This payment shall be made only once, subject to
the following.
      (2)   Where a consumer has need for a larger line in addition to his or
her domestic line, as in the case of a commercial consumer who needs a one-inch
line for normal use and a six-inch or larger line for a fire sprinkler system,
he or she will be permitted to run one line into the premises and “Y” off into
two lines at the building. When this is done, the meter will be attached to the
small or domestic line and a check valve as well as one-inch detection meter
shall be put on the large line.
      (3)   The city shall maintain and repair all meters when rendered
unserviceable through ordinary wear and tear and shall replace them if
necessary. When replacement, repair, or adjustment of any meter is rendered by
the act, neglect (including damage from freezing or hot water backup) or
carelessness of the owner or occupant of the premises, any expense caused the
city thereby shall be charged against and collected from the water consumer.
      (4)   A consumer may, by written request, have his or her meter tested by
depositing the amount established pursuant to §
51.51. In case a test should show an error of over 5% of the water consumed, a
correctly registering meter will be installed, and the bill will be adjusted
accordingly and the testing deposit refunded. This adjustment shall not extend
back more than one billing period from the date of the written request.
      (5)   All water meters and remote readers shall be and remain the
property of the city.
      (6)   Authorized city employees shall have free access at reasonable
hours of the day to all parts of every building and premises connected with the
water system for reading of meters and inspections.
      (7)   It shall be the responsibility of the consumer to notify the city
to request a final reading at the time of the customer's billing change.
   (B)   Water meter setting. All water meters hereafter installed shall be in
accordance with the Minnesota Plumbing Code and any standards established by
resolution of the City Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.50 WATER UNIT.
   A water unit (hereinafter called unit) shall be one residential equivalent
connection based on usage of 100,000 gallons per year or portion thereof.
§ 51.51 RATES, FEES AND CHARGES GENERALLY.
   The City Council shall establish a schedule of all water rates, fees and
charges for permits or services in the ordinance, as that ordinance may be
amended from time to time.
§ 51.52 WATER SERVICE BILLING; CHANGE OF ADDRESS.
   All bills and notices shall be mailed or delivered to the address where
service is provided. If non-resident owners or agents desire personal notice
sent to a different address, they shall so note on the water service
application. Any change or error in address shall be promptly reported to the
City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer.
§ 51.53 WATER RATES.
   (A)   The rate due and payable by each user within the city for water taken
from the water system shall be established pursuant to §
51.51.
   (B)   In case the meter is found to have stopped, or to be operating in a
faulty manner, the amount of water used will be estimated in accordance with
the amount used previously in comparable periods of the year.
   (C)   Rates due and payable by each water user located beyond the
territorial boundaries of the city shall be determined by special contract.
   (D)   The minimum rates established pursuant to §
51.51 shall begin to accrue after connection of the service pipe with the curb
stop box.
   (E)   A meter shall be installed on the water valve in the house and a
remote register outside regardless of whether inside piping is connected.
   (F)   In the event a water customer elects to discontinue the use of the
municipal water, the regular or minimum charge shall continue until the date as
service is disconnected at the curb box.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.54 PAYMENT OF CHARGES; LATE PAYMENT; COLLECTION.
   (A)   Any prepayment or overpayment of charges may be retained by the city
and applied on subsequent quarterly charges.
   (B)   If a quarterly service charge is not paid when due, then a penalty of
10% shall be added thereto.
   (C)   In the event a user fails to pay his or her water user fee within a
reasonable time following discontinuance of service (a time period not to
exceed 90 days), the fee shall be certified by the City Clerk-Administrator-
Treasurer and forwarded to the County Auditor for collection.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Utility billing and collection, see
Chapter 53
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.70 SUPERVISION BY UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT; LICENSING.
   (A)   All piping connections from the curb stop box to house supply piping
shall be made under the supervision of a licensed plumber subject to inspection
by the Utilities Superintendent. The piping connection made to the curb stop
box on the house side shall be inspected by the Utilities Superintendent. The
water meter installation shall be inspected, tested and the meter sealed by the
Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of
altering, repairing, installing or constructing municipal water connections
within the city without first obtaining a license to carry on the occupation
from the city. A master plumber licensed by the state under the provisions of
M.S. § 326.40, as it may be amended from time to time, is exempt from the
provisions of this section. A person in the ditch installing the pipe who has a
card showing that they have completed a program of training that incorporates
the Plumbing Code installation requirements, issued by either the Associated
Builders and Contractors, Laborers-Employers Cooperation Educational Trust, or
Minnesota Utility Contractors Association, is not subject to the licensing
requirements of this section.
      (1)   The applicant shall file with the City Clerk-Administrator-
Treasurer evidence of public liability insurance, including products liability
insurance with limits of at least $50,000 per person and $100,000 per
occurrence and property damage insurance with limits of at least $10,000.
Evidence of insurance required pursuant to M.S. § 326.40, Subd. 2, as it may be
amended from time to time, shall satisfy this requirement.
      (2)   The applicant shall file with the City Clerk-Administrator-
Treasurer a surety bond guaranteeing the conformance and compliance of work
with this chapter. The bond shall be in the amount of $2,000. The city shall
hold the bond for one year following the license period. Failure to comply with
provisions and requirements of this chapter shall result in forfeiture of the
bond. The applicant may comply with the requirements of M.S. § 326.40, Subd. 2,
as it may be amended from time to time in lieu of these requirements.
      (3)   Applications for licenses shall be filed with the City Clerk-
Administrator- Treasurer and shall be reviewed and subject to approval of the
city.
      (4)   Any installation, construction, alteration of a water connection by
a license in violation of any provision of this chapter or refusal on the part
of a licensee to correct the defective work shall be cause for revocation of or
refusal to renew a license. This license may be revoked or refused for renewal
by the city at any time for cause which shall be documented in writing.
   (C)   All licenses required in this section shall be renewable annually.
Applications for licenses shall be made annually on a form furnished by the
City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer. Licenses shall be in effect from January 1
to December 31 of the same year. The license fee shall be established pursuant
to §
51.51.
   (D)   Before any license issued under the provisions of this section may be
revoked or its renewal refused, the licensee shall be given a hearing by the
City Council to show cause why the license should not be revoked or refused.
Notice of the time, place and purpose of the hearing shall be in writing.
§ 51.71 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   The Utilities Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
city, upon proper identification, are authorized, with the permission of the
licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property within the
city, to enter upon all properties for the purpose of inspections, observation
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. If the licensee,
owner, resident or other person in control of property within the city does not
permit the entrance to the property, the city may obtain an administrative
search warrant as provided for in §
10.20.
§ 51.72 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   Water service may be shut off at any connection.
§ 51.73 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES TO TURN WATER ON AND OFF.
   No person, except an authorized city employee, shall turn on or off any
water supply at the curb stop box.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.74 LIABILITY FOR EXPENSE, LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the city by
reason of the violation.
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Inspectors; authority
Use Regulations
   
52.15   General usages
   
52.16   Private sewage disposal
   
52.17   Building sewers and connections
   
52.18   Main and lateral sewer construction
   
52.19   Protection from damage
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C expressed in milligrams per liter. Laboratory procedures
shall be in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lower horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning five
feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   COD or CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of organic matter, expressed in milligrams per liter, as
determined in accordance with standard laboratory procedures as set out in the
latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater.
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the City of Elbow Lake, as
presently established or as amended by ordinance or other legal actions at a
future time. The term CITY, when used herein, may also be used to refer to the
City Council and its authorized representatives.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer originally designated to receive both surface water
runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid waste resulting from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage or sale of meat,
fish, fowl, fruit, vegetable or condemned food.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The solid, liquid or gaseous wastes resulting from an
industrial or manufacturing processes, trade or business or from the
development, recovery or processing of natural resources.
   INFILTRATION. Water entering the sewage system, including building drain and
pipes, from the ground through such means as defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections and manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW or I/I. The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow.
   INFLOW. Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system, including
building drains, from sources such as, but not limited to roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard and area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, catch basins,
surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NPDES PERMIT or NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT. The
system for issuing, conditioning and denying permits for the discharge of
pollutants from point sources into the navigable waters, the contiguous zone
and the oceans by the Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, Sections 402 and 405.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTES. Wastes which are characterized by 250 mg
per liter BOD and 300 mg per liter suspended soils.
   OTHER WASTES. Garbage, municipal refuse, decayed wood, sawdust, shavings,
bark, lime, sand, ashes, oil tar, chemicals, offal and other substances, except
sewage.
   PERSON.  Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
municipal corporation, governmental unit or group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROCESS WATER. Any water used in the manufacturing, preparation or
production of goods, materials or food. PROCESS WATER is an industrial waste.
   PUBLIC SEWER. Any sewer owned or operated by a unit or agency of government.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
   SANITARY WASTE. The liquid and water carried wastes discharged from sanitary
plumbing facilities.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM PERMIT or SDS PERMIT. Any permit, including any terms,
conditions and requirements thereof, issued by the MPCA, pursuant to M.S. §
115.07, as it may be amended from time to time, for a disposal system, as
defined by M.S. § 115.01(8), as it may be amended from time to time.
   SEWAGE or WASTEWATER. The water carried waste products from residences,
public buildings, institutions, industrial establishments or other buildings,
including the excrement or other discharge from the bodies of human beings or
animals, together with ground, surface and stormwater as may be present.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage, industrial wastes or other
waste liquids.
   SEWER SYSTEM. Pipelines or conduits, pumping stations, forcemains and all
other devises and appliances appurtenant thereto, used for collecting or
conducting sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes to a point of ultimate
disposal.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, wastewater or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds, for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration of flows during the normal operation.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm or surface water and
drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial waste, other than unpolluted
cooling or process water.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods
for the Examination of Water and Wastewater.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Clean water uncontaminated by industrial wastes, other
wastes or any substance which renders the water unclean or noxious or impure so
as to be actually or potentially harmful or detrimental or injurious to public
health, safety or welfare to domestic, commercial, industrial or recreational
uses or to livestock, wild animals, birds, fish or other aquatic life.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment or processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of sewer
devices and structures for treatment of wastewater, industrial waste and
sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous for WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT, WASTE
TREATMENT PLANT, WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT or SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT.
(Ord. 188, passed 7-17-01)
§ 52.02 INSPECTORS; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   (1)   Duly authorized employees of the city shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Those employees shall have no authority to inquire into processes
including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper or their
industries, except as is necessary to determine the kind and source of the
discharge to the public sewer.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private property as referred to
in division (A) above, the authorized employees of the city shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises as established by the company and the
company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees and
the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by
city employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required in this chapter.
   (C)   Duly authorized employees of the city shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds easements for the purpose of,
but not limited to inspection, observation, maintenance and construction of
public sewers.
   (D)   The Utilities Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the
city, bearing proper credentials and identification, are authorized, with the
permission of the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of
property within the city, to enter all properties for the purpose of
inspection, observations, measurement, sampling and testing pertinent to the
discharges to the city's sewer system in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of
property within the city does not permit the entrance to the property, the city
may obtain an administrative search warrant as provided for in §
10.20.
(Ord. 188, passed 7-17-01)
USE REGULATIONS
§ 52.15 GENERAL USAGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city or any area under the jurisdiction of the city any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage if adequate and feasible city
facilities are available.
   (C)   (1)   The owner of any building or property which is located within
the city and from which wastewater is discharged shall be required to connect
to a public sewer, at his or her expense, within 60 days of the date the public
sewer is operational; provided that the public sewer is within 150 feet of the
structure generating the wastewater and the public sewer is located in a public
right-of-way or easement for sewer purposes adjacent to the property. All
future buildings constructed on property adjacent to the public sewer shall be
required to immediately connect to the public sewer.
      (2)   If sewer connections are not being made pursuant to this division
(C), an official 60-day notice shall be served instructing the affected
property owner to make the connection.
   (D)   In the event an owner shall fail to connect to a public sewer in
compliance with a notice given under division (C) above, the city may undertake
to have the connection made and shall assess the cost thereof against the
benefitted property. The assessment shall be a lien against the property. The
assessment, when levied, shall bear interest at the legal rate for local
improvements and shall be certified to the Auditor of the county and shall be
collected and remitted to the city in the same manner as assessments for local
improvements. The rights of the city shall be in addition to any remedial or
enforcement provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged directly or
indirectly any stormwater, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, waste
from on-site disposal systems, unpolluted cooling or processing water to any
sanitary sewer. No person may discharge sump pump or footing drain water into
the public sanitary sewer.
      (2)   A monthly surcharge will be incurred by all residents who allow
sump pumps, roof drains, drain tile or any other type of connection that allows
rain, snow melt or any other non-sewage water to enter the sanitary sewer
system which shall be $25 for the first month; $50 for the second month; $75
for the third month; and $100 per month thereafter.
      (3)   All sump pumps must be hard plumbed to the outside and no flexible
hose, hose clamps, two-way valves or other similar devices will be allowed.
      (4)   This division (E) shall not apply to underground drainage systems
constructed outside of the foundation or basement of the improvements where the
improvements were constructed prior to August 5, 2001, until the time as
further improvements are made to the property which include any modification,
repair or alteration to the drainage system or any excavation in or around the
drainage system.
   (F)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted water shall be discharged to a
storm sewer, except that unpolluted cooling or process water shall only be so
discharged to a storm sewer or natural outlet on approval of the city and upon
approval and the issuance of a discharge permit by the MPCA.
   (G)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, directly or
indirectly, any of the following described substances to any public sewer:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either along or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater disposal system or to the operation of the system; (Prohibited
materials include, but are not limited to gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene,
toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates,
perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides.)
      (2)   Any water or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any wastewater treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create
any hazard in the wastewater treatment works; (A toxic pollutant shall include,
but not be limited to any pollutant identified pursuant to Section 307A of the
Clean Water Act.)
      (3)   Any water or waste having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the wastewater treatment works;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances, either whole or ground, in quantities
or of a size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in the sewers, or other
interference with the proper continuation of the wastewater facilities, but not
limited to ashes, cinders, disposable diapers, glass grinding or polishing
wastes, stone cuttings or polishing wastes, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal,
glass rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood,
paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails, sanitary napkins, paper dishes,
cups, milk containers and other paper products; and/or
      (5)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or substances which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance or repairs.
   (H)   (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, directly or
indirectly, the following described substances to any public sewer unless, in
the opinion of the city, the discharge will not harm the wastewater facilities,
nor cause obstruction to the flow in sewers, nor otherwise endanger life, limb
or public property, nor constitute a nuisance.
      (2)   In forming its opinion as to the acceptability of the wastes, the
city may give consideration to such factors as the quantities of the subject
wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials or
construction of the sewers, nature of the wastewater treatment process,
capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, the city's NPDES permit and other
pertinent factors.
      (3)   The city may make such determinations either on a general basis or
as to discharges from individual users or specific discharges and may prohibit
certain discharges from individual users because of unusual concentrations or
combinations which may occur.
      (4)   The substances prohibited are:
         (a)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature in excess of 150°F or
65°C;
         (b)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter or containing
substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F
and 150°F or 0°C and 65°C;
         (c)   Any garbage that has not been ground or comminuted to a degree
that all particles will be carried freely in suspension under the flows
normally prevailing in the public sewers, with no particles greater than one-
half inch in any dimension;
         (d)   Any water or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
         (e)   Any water or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances which constitute a nuisance or hazard to the structures,
equipment or personnel of the wastewater works, or which interfere with the
treatment required to meet the requirements of the state or federal government,
or any other public agency with proper authority to regulate the discharge from
the wastewater treatment plant;
         (f)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or
concentration that they are not in compliance with regulations issued by the
appropriate authority having control over their use or may cause damage or
hazards to the treatment works or personnel operating it;
         (g)   Any water or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
         (h)   Materials which exert or cause:
            1.   Unusual concentrations of suspended solids, (such as, but not
limited to Fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to sodium chloride or sodium sulfate);
            2.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions);
            3.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to-constitute a significant load on the wastewater
treatment works; (The BOD discharged to the public sewer shall not exceed 400
mg/l.)
            4.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
a slug; and/or
            5.   Water or water containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of the NPDES permit or requirements of
other governmental agencies having jurisdiction over discharge from the
wastewater treatment plant.
         (i)   Any waters or wastes containing the following substances to such
degree that any such material received in the composite wastewater at the
wastewater treatment works in excess of limits established by the Wastewater
Superintendent: arsenic, cadmium, copper, cyanide, lead, mercury, nickel,
silver, total chromium and zinc.
   (I)   (1)   If any water or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged, directly or indirectly, to the public sewers, which water or wastes
do not meet the standards set out in or promulgated under this division (I) or
which in the jurisdiction of the city may have a deleterious effect upon the
treatment works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life, or constitute a public nuisance, the city may take all
or any of the following steps:
         (a)   Refuse to accept the discharges;
         (b)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge;
         (c)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for the
discharge to the public sewers pursuant to Section 307(b) of the Act and all
addenda thereof; and/or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling or treating
the wastes.
      (2)   The design and installation of the plant and equipment for
pretreatment or equalization of flows shall be subject to the review and
approval of the city and subject to the requirements of 40 CRF 403, entitled
“Pretreatment Standards,” and the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   (J)   (1)   Grease, oil and mud interceptors shall be provided when they are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease
in excessive amounts, as specified in division (H) above or any flammable
wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients, except that the interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units.
      (2)   All interceptors shall be a type and capacity approved by the city
and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   (K)   Where preliminary treatment flow equalization or interceptors are
required for any water or waste, they shall be effectively operated and
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective condition by the owner at
his or her expense and shall be available for inspection by the city at all
reasonable times.
   (L)   (1)   When required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by
a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
structure together with necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes.
      (2)   The structure and equipment, when required, shall be constructed at
the owner's expense in accordance with plans approved by the city and shall be
maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (M)      (1)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics
of water and waste to which reference is made in this chapter shall be
determined in accordance with 40 CRF 136, “Guidelines Establishing Test
Procedures for the Analysis of Pollutants,” the latest edition of Standard
Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater and shall be determined at
the control structure provided or upon suitable samples taken at said control
structure.
      (2)   In the event that no special structure has been required, the
control structure shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in
the public sewer from the point at which the building sewer is connected.
      (3)   Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effluent constituents and their effect upon the treatment works and
to determine the existence of hazards of life, health and property.
      (4)   Sampling methods, locations, times and durations and frequencies
are to be determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the city.
   (N)   (1)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes may, at the discretion of the city, be required to provide
laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of waters or wastes to illustration
compliance with this chapter and any special condition for discharge
established by the city of regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the
discharge. The number, type and frequency of sampling and laboratory analyses
to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city. The industry
must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge
to assure that compliance with the federal, state and local standards are being
met. The owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analyses
to the city at the times and in a manner as prescribed by the city.
      (2)   The owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses and
reporting required by the city. At such times as deemed necessary, the city
reserves the right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an outside
laboratory.
   (O)   New connections to the sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited
unless sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities,
including, but not limited to capacity for flow, BOD and suspended solids.
   (P)   No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any manner,
attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in divisions (C)
and (D) above or contained in the national categorical pretreatment standards
or any state requirements.
   (Q)   No statement contained in this section shall be constructed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangements between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefore by the
industrial concern, in accordance with applicable ordinance and any
supplemental agreements with the city.
(Ord. 188, passed 7-17-01) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.16 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
52.15, the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal
system complying with the rules and regulations Minn. Rules Ch. 7080, as it may
be amended from time to time, entitled, “Individual Sewage Treatment System
Program,” or the requirements of the city or other regulatory agencies,
whichever is more restrictive.
   (B)   No new private sewer systems or sewer system extensions shall be
constructed within the city without first obtaining written approval of the
system plan and materials to be used in the construction of the system.
(Ord. 188, passed 7-17-01) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.17 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the work or business
of installing private sewer service lines and appurtenances for others without
a license therefor from the city.
      (2)   Any person desiring to engage in such work shall make application
to the city on forms to be supplied by the city together with a fee in the
amount of $25. All licenses issued shall be for one calendar year only and each
renewal shall be made by application together with a $25 annual fee. A plumber
licensed by the State Board of Health shall not be required to be licensed by
the city.
      (3)   Each applicant for license shall sign an agreement on such form as
may be delivered by the city agreeing to pay the city the actual cost of repair
for any damage caused to the city sewer system by the application, or by any of
his or her employees or agents. This agreement shall accompany the license
application.
      (4)   Each applicant shall accompany his or her application with a
certificate of insurance in a company acceptable to the city showing public
liability insurance coverage with limits of at least $100,000 per person;
$250,000 per occurrence and $50,000 for property damage. The certificate shall
specifically state that the insurance covers underground construction
operations and shall contain a provision that the coverage afforded under the
policies will not be canceled or materially changed until at least 15 days
prior written notice has been given to the city.
   (B)   No person, unless authorized by a written permit from the city, shall
make, install, repair, alter, disturb, uncover, open or break any sewer
connection to the sanitary sewer system of the city. Permits for connection of
a new sewer service or repairs to an existing service shall be issued by the
city after consideration of the application for the permit with regard to
compliance with other sections of this chapter. Permits shall be issued in the
following manner.
      (1)   Application for a permit to perform work on a sewer service
connection within the city shall be made on a form supplied by the city by the
person or firm who will be performing the work to the city for the installation
of a new connection. The person or firm performing the work shall be licensed
to perform the work by the city.
      (2)   The City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer shall issue a permit for the
work after the application is approved and the bond is received.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer or repairs to an existing connection shall be borne by
the owner. The owner shall indemnify and hold harmless the city from any loss
or damage to the public sewer that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where two or more buildings are situated on one parcel such
that the parcel may not be subdivided. The joint use private sewer may be
extended to the rear building or buildings and the whole considered as one
joint use private sewer provided the buildings are the property of a single
owner. Special variances will be considered by the city.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, upon examination and testing by the city, to meet all the
requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   Unused septic tanks, cesspools, leaching pits and similar devices and
structures shall be backfilled or made safe and unusable in a manner acceptable
to the city.
   (G)   The size, slope, alignment and materials of construction of a building
sewer and the method used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing
and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
Building Code and Plumbing Code; or other applicable rules and regulations. In
the absence of code provisions, or in amplifications thereof, the materials and
procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the Water Pollution
Control Federation (W.P.C.F.) Manual of Practice No. 9 and the American Society
for Testing Materials (A.S.T.M.) standards shall apply.
   (H)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, the
building drain shall be provided with a lifting device by an approved means and
discharge to the building sewer.
   (I)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, roof drains,
exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff
or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which, in turn, is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (J)   The construction of the building sewer and its connection into the
public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the State Plumbing Code, the
sewer specifications included herein and other applicable rules and regulations
and procedures adopted by the city. All construction shall be made gastight and
watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the city prior to installation.
   (K)   (1)   Employees of the city shall be allowed to inspect the work at
any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the city when the work is ready for final inspection and no underground
portion shall be covered before the final inspection is complete.
      (2)   The connection shall be made under the supervision of the city or
its representative.
   (L)   All excavations for building sewer installations shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazards.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed during the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 188, passed 7-17-01) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.18 MAIN AND LATERAL SEWER CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No person, unless authorized, shall uncover, make any connection with
or opening into, use, alter or disturb any sanitary or storm sewer within the
city or any part of the city wastewater facilities.
   (B)   (1)   No sanitary or storm sewers shall be constructed in the city,
except house or building service sewers, except by the city or by others in
accordance with plans and specifications approved by a professional engineer.
      (2)   No sewers shall be constructed or considered to be part of the
public sewer system unless accepted by the city.
   (C)   The size, slope, alignment, material of construction, methods to be
used in excavation, placing of pipe, jointing, testing, backfilling and other
work connected with the construction of sewers shall conform to the
requirements of the city.
(Ord. 188, passed 7-17-01) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.19 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities.
(Ord. 188, passed 7-17-01) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this chapter shall
be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
The offender shall within the time period stated in the notice permanently
cease all violation.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in the written notice shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and on
conviction thereof shall be fined in the amount not to exceed $1,000 for each
violation. Each day in which any violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the
city by reason of the violation.
   (D)   In addition to all other penalties, the city may impose a
administrative penalty not to exceed $500, in which any violations of this
chapter contain as provided in §
10.98.
(Ord. 188, passed 7-17-01)
CHAPTER 53: UTILITY BILLING AND COLLECTION
Section
   
53.01   Authority and purpose
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Service agreements
   
53.04   Utility rate schedule
   
53.05   Billing; collections of accounts; adjustments
   
53.06   Delinquent accounts; utility shut-off; cancellation of service
   
53.07   Procedures for appeal of proposed utility shut-offs
§ 53.01 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   The city provides for the establishment of several utilities, including
water, sewer, storm sewer, and garbage. Additionally, the Elbow Lake Public
Utilities Commission provides electrical utilities and has transferred to the
city, under its Electric Service Regulations, all obligations,
responsibilities, requirements and other acts attendant to the billing,
collection and enforcement of its fees and charges. All utility rates, fees and
charges have been adopted by ordinance or by the Elbow Lake Public Utilities
Commission and this chapter has as its purpose to provide for the systematic
billing and collection of utility charges and fees and to provide mechanisms
for collection and other remedies upon non-payment thereof.
(Ord. passed 8-4-08)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCOUNT. A record of utility services used by each property and the periodic
cost of those utility services.
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the city or the City
Council and its authorized representatives.
   CUSTOMER. Any individual, partnership, association, firm, public or private
corporation or governmental agency having city utility service.
      (1)   RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. A customer using utility service for
residential (household) purposes.
      (2)   CUSTOMER OF RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (SINGLE FAMILY HOME OR
DUPLEX). A landlord or lessor of a single family home or duplex being leased
for residential purposes. Tenants and lessees may not, absent compelling
circumstances, be customers hereunder.
      (3)   CUSTOMER OF RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (MULTIPLE- OCCUPANT
PREMISES). A tenant or lessee of a unit leased for residential purposes in a
complex or building in which there are three or more such units shall be
considered the customer hereunder. The owner, landlord, or lessor of such
property shall not, absent compelling circumstances, be the customer hereunder.
      (4)   COMMERCIAL CUSTOMER. A customer using utility service at a location
where the purchaser is engaged in selling, warehousing, or distributing a
commodity, in some business activity, in rendering professional service, or in
some form of social activity. In borderline cases where the nature of the
customer’s activities does not differentiate clearly between commercial and
industrial, the service is classified as commercial.
      (5)   INDUSTRIAL CUSTOMER. A customer using service at a location where
the purchaser is engaged in an industrial activity, such as the operation of
factories, mills, machine shops, mines, oil wells, refineries, pumping plants,
cleaning and dyeing works, creameries, canning establishments, stockyards, and
the like that is in extractive, fabricating or processing activities.
   UTILITY. Facilities used for providing public utility service owned or
operated by city or Elbow Lake Public Utilities Commission or any service of
the city, including sewer; storm sewer; water service; garbage, solid waste and
recycling service; and electric service.
   UTILITY RATE SCHEDULE. A schedule of all utility rates and charges set by
ordinance of the city, or by the Elbow Lake Public Utilities Commission.
(Ord. passed 8-4-08)
§ 53.03 SERVICE AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Form and execution of service agreements. Each application for general
service will be made on the city's standard form, which, when properly executed
by customer, becomes binding and along with the applicable rate schedules,
rules and regulation, is termed a service agreement. If for any reason an
application is not signed by the customer, the providing of service by the city
and the accepting of such service by the city shall impose the same obligation
on each as if a service agreement had been executed.
   (B)   Deposit requirements. Along with an application for general service,
all new customers are required to provide credit references and credit
information on the city's standard form. At the time of connection, customer
will provide a $200 deposit, which will be returned to customer upon receipt of
approved credit and review of the application. If approved credit is not
received, the deposit will be held earning the interest rate allowed by state
law and will be returned to customer by mailed check after 12 consecutive
months of timely payments. If an account is closed, the deposit will be used to
retire any outstanding amounts from the final bill and, if funds still remain,
they will be refunded to customer. Present or previous customers in good
standing with the city are exempt from the deposit requirements.
   (C)   Contract period for service agreements. The term of the service
agreement shall be continuous until appropriately terminated under this
chapter.
   (D)   Termination of service agreement by customer. Unless otherwise
provided in the service agreement or rate schedule, customer may terminate
service at any time by notifying the city not less than three days prior to the
date termination is desired. Customer will be held responsible for all service
supplied to vacated premises until such notice has been received by the city.
Notification may be made by writing, by telephone, or by visiting the office of
the City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer during regular business hours. Upon any
such termination, the electric meter will be removed. Electric service may be
temporarily terminated and billing suspended, upon the request from the
customer, for a period of time due to illness, vacation, or seasonal use.
Likewise, water service will be terminated. Reconnection fees as provided in
the rate schedule apply to reconnects.
   (E)   Property not occupied by owner. Utilities provided to rental or other
non-owner occupied premises, including single family homes and duplexes, but
excluding other multiple-occupant premises, shall be the responsibility of the
property owner, and the owner shall be considered the customer. The city shall
not be responsible for enforcing agreements between owners and occupants
regarding responsibility for payment of utility charges. All existing accounts
in the name of a non-owner occupant shall be transferred to the name of the
property owner within one year of the date of these regulations. As this
chapter contemplates the landlord/lessor as the customer for these premises,
renter shall not have the right to terminate services. The owner's request for
voluntary shut-off must contain a statement that the premises will not be
occupied at the date of the requested shut-off.
   (F)   Multiple-occupant premises. If multiple units (more than two) within a
premises are served by a utility or utilities, the charges related to those
utilities shall be billed to the tenant or lessee. If the premises includes any
residential property, the customer billed will be the individual tenants or
lessees. If the premises does not include any residential property, the
customer can be either the property owner or the occupants. If circumstances
dictate that only one bill can be provided for any particular utility, the
owner shall be the customer, and the city shall not be responsible for
allocating charges among multiple occupants, in such cases.
(Ord. passed 8-4-08)
§ 53.04 UTILITY RATE SCHEDULE.
   The utility rate schedule shall be adopted annually by ordinance of the City
Council, except that rates and fees for electrical service shall be set by the
Elbow Lake Public Utilities Commission, but collected and enforced pursuant to
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-4-08)
§ 53.05 BILLING; COLLECTION OF ACCOUNTS; ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Accounts. Except in the case of multiple-occupant premises, all
accounts shall be carried in the name of the owner. Except in the case of
multiple-occupant premises, the owner shall be liable for all utilities
servicing the property, whether he or she is occupying the property or not, and
any unpaid charges shall be a lien upon the property.
   (B)   Billings, due date, and delinquency. All utility accounts shall be
billed monthly, unless a different period is provided in the fee ordinance, and
each billing statement shall designate a due date of ten days from the billing
date. An account which is not paid as of the close of business on the due date
shall be considered delinquent. After an account has been delinquent for ten
days, a penalty shall be added to, and become a part of, the delinquent
account, at the rate specified by ordinance or regulation.
   (C)   Adjustments and time limitation on utility charges. When a
determination is made that a customer has been overcharged or undercharged for
utility service, whether by reason of inaccurate metering, clerical errors, or
other unintentional causes, the error shall be remedied as promptly as
possible, and an adjustment shall be made for the dollar amount of the
overcharge or undercharge for the time period that the erroneous charges
occurred, not to exceed one year prior to the date the city became aware of the
error for undercharges, and the two years prior to the date that the city
became aware of the error for overcharges.
   (D)   Refund of overcharges. When a customer has been overcharged, the
overpaid amount will be refunded to the customer by the city within 60 days of
the calculation of the amount of overcharge with interest.
   (E)   Collection of undercharge. When a customer has been undercharged, the
customer shall be promptly notified of the cause and amount of the adjustment,
and the undercharged amount shall be billed to the customer separately. The
customer will be offered a payment agreement, which allows for payments of
equal installments over a period of time equal to the time over which the
undercharge occurred. No interest or delinquency fee will be charged. In the
event that the customer has discontinued utility service or does so before full
payment of the undercharged amount, the customer shall continue to be
responsible for the payment of undercharge on the same payment terms.
   (F)   Exceptions. Refunds for overcharges and collection of undercharges
shall not apply to situations in which deliberate or intentional acts of the
customer or anyone acting on behalf of or for the benefit of the customer have
resulted in the undercharge to the customer for utility service. In such cases,
the city reserves all legal rights to collect the full amount of the unpaid
utilities without regard to the time limitation and installment payment
provision set forth herein.
   (G)   Application of payments to customer accounts. All customer payments
for utility services shall be applied in the order of priority set forth below,
with all amounts being applied first to the highest applicable category of
priority, any balance being applied to the next lower applicable category of
priority, and so on successively until the full amount of payment has been
applied. The categories of priority, from highest to lowest, shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Administrative charges.
      (2)   Late payment charges.
      (3)   Past-due electric charges.
      (4)   Current electric charges.
      (5)   Past-due water charges.
      (6)   Past-due solid waste charges.
      (7)   Past-due sewer charges.
      (8)   Current water charges.
      (9)   Current solid waste charges.
      (10)   Current sewer charges.
(Ord. passed 8-4-08)
§ 53.06 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; UTILITY SHUT-OFF; CANCELLATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Penalties. After an account has been delinquent for ten days, a late
payment penalty of 10% shall be assessed on all accounts.
   (B)   Procedures for shut-off for nonpayment.  Except as otherwise provided
by M.S. § 216B.097 (The Minnesota Cold Weather Rule) and any other state or
federal law or regulation controlling shut-off procedures for municipal
utilities, the following procedures shall apply. When a proposed shut-off is
the result of non-payment of the utility bill:
      (1)   A written notice shall be mailed to the customer no more than one
day after the utility account becomes delinquent. In the event that the
property served by the utility is occupied by someone other than the owner
thereof, notices shall be sent to both the owner and the occupant of the
property. The notice shall state the total amount due, which may include other
utility charges provided by city, the date by which the account must be paid to
avoid shut-off (20 days after the account becomes delinquent), and the title,
address and phone number of the individual to contact to discuss the situation.
The notice shall also state which service(s) will be shut-off. The notice shall
also notify the customer of the procedure for administrative appeal of the
proposed shut-off, as is explained with more specificity hereinafter.
      (2)   If the account remains unpaid as of the close of business on the
shut-off date designated in the notices, the utilities shall be shut-off,
unless the customer has filed a timely appeal which is pending or which has
resulted in a ruling in favor of the customer. Shut-offs for non-payment shall
take place only during business hours on Mondays through Thursdays.
      (3)   Any notices required by this chapter shall be sent by first-class
mail to the last known address of each recipient.
   (C)   Nonpayment related shut-off. The city, in addition to all other legal
remedies, may terminate the service agreement and discontinue utility services,
or suspend delivery of service, for any default or breach of the service
agreement or violation of ordinance by customer, but no such termination or
suspension will be made by Commission or city without five days written notice,
excluding Sundays and legal holidays, to customer, stating with particularity
the manner in which the service agreement or ordinance has been violated,
except in cases of unlawful or unauthorized used. A standard tampering fee in
addition to the cost of repairs to the equipment will be collected. Failure to
act pursuant to this section, or to resort to any other legal remedy, shall not
affect the Commission's or city's right to resort to any such remedies for the
same or any future default or breach by customer.
   (D)   Reconnection.  After a shut-off has occurred in accordance with this
chapter, the customer may request reconnection of utility services by making
payment at the City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer's Office of all delinquent
amounts owed by the customer on all utility accounts (including late payment
penalties) and a reconnection fee for utility services to be reconnected. If
other city run utility services have been shut-off, additional reconnection
fees may apply. In the event that shut-off was for reasons other than
delinquency, all circumstances leading to the breach and default shall be
remedied and the reconnection fee paid. The reconnection fee shall be set forth
in the ordinance establishing the fee schedule. The customer shall also
complete a new service application and pay the required deposit.
   (E)   The Minnesota Cold Weather Rule. The Minnesota Cold Weather Rule
applies from October 15 to April 15. The rule prevents a municipal utility from
disconnecting a residential unit during this time frame if the disconnection
affects the primary heat source and if the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The customer has declared an inability to pay on forms provided by
the utility or is receiving energy assistance;
      (2)   The household income of the customer is less than 50% of the state
median income; and
      (3)   The customer’s account was current for the billing period
immediately prior to October 15 or the customer has entered into a payment
schedule that considers the financial resources of the household and is
reasonably current with payments under that schedule.
      (4)   The Commission will comply with all other mandates and requirements
of the Minnesota Cold Weather Rule.
   (F)   Waiver of liability. The city, its agents, employees and
representatives shall not be responsible or liable for any damages or claims
incurred as a result of the disconnection of services whether voluntary or
involuntary.
   (G)   Certification for collection with taxes.  
      (1)   The City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer shall have the authorization
to file utility liens in compliance with all statutes of the state relating to
utility liens and collections, including but not limited to the original and
amended versions of M.S. §§ 366.102, 415.01, and 444.075. Except in cases where
the City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer becomes aware of a pending sale of
property or other circumstances which make prior approval impracticable, the
city and/or Public Utilities Commission shall consider and approve the lien. If
the City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer files a lien for delinquent utilities
prior to city or Public Utilities Commission approval, he or she shall notify
the city or Commission at its next regular meeting that a lien has been filed.
The requirements concerning notice to customer and/or property owner shall be
fulfilled at the time of the filing of the lien.
      (2)   Delinquent utility charges as of October 31 of each year shall be
certified by the City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer, who shall prepare a list
of delinquent charges each year. Except as provided hereinabove, unpaid charges
on utility accounts shall not be certified to the County Auditor until notice
and an opportunity for a hearing has been provided to the owner of the premises
involved. The notice shall be sent at least ten days before hearing scheduled
before the City Council. The notice shall be sent by first class mail and shall
state that if payment is not made before the date of certification, the entire
amount unpaid plus penalties will be certified to the County Auditor for
collection as other taxes are collected. The notice shall also state that the
occupant may, before such certification date, attend or schedule a hearing on
the matter to object to certification of unpaid utility charges. The date of
the meeting at which the City Council will certify unpaid charges for
collection as other the taxes. In the event that the delinquency involves
rental property, notice shall be sent to the non-occupying owner and the
tenant.
      (3)   The owner of the property shall have the option of paying the
balance due on the account until the date the notice of the certification
hearing is mailed. After the date the notice of certification hearing is
mailed, payments will be accepted but will include unpaid penalties.
      (4)   Before November 14 of each year, a hearing shall be held on the
matter by the City Council. Property owners with unpaid utility charges shall
have the opportunity to object to the certification of unpaid charges to be
collected as taxes are collected. If, after the hearing, the City Council finds
that the amount claimed as delinquent is actually due and unpaid and that there
is no legal reason why the unpaid charges should not be certified for
collection with taxes in accordance with this chapter, the city may certify the
unpaid charges to the County Auditor for collection as other taxes collected.
Certification shall not preclude the city or its agents from recovering
delinquent charges and interest under any other available remedy and shall not
preclude the disconnection for late payment provided hereunder.
   (H)   Procedure following certification hearing. For each certification
sustained, the property owner shall have the following option after the
hearing:
      (1)   To pay the delinquent amount listed on the preliminary roll, but
without additional interest after the hearing, within ten days of the hearing.
      (2)   To pay the certified delinquent amount after the hearing date, but
before the county certification deadline, with interest at the rate set in the
adopted rate schedule, accrued beginning on the eleventh day following the
hearing date through the date of payment.
      (3)   To pay the certified charges as billed to them by Grant County on
their property tax statement with a collection term of one year.
   (I)   Final certification. Fifteen days after the hearing, but no later than
November 29, the certified roll, minus any payments, shall be delivered to the
Grant County Auditor.
(Ord. passed 8-4-08)
§ 53.07 PROCEDURES FOR APPEAL OF PROPOSED UTILITY SHUT-OFFS.
   (A)   Authority of City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer. A customer who
disputes the amount of a utility bill, or who is unable to pay all or part of
the bill, may on or before the deadline for the filing of a notice of appeal,
contact the City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer, who shall be authorized to make
adjustments for errors in bills or to make alternate payment arrangements, such
as a Budget Payment Plan, if appropriate, pursuant to the guidelines set forth
in §
53.07(E) hereof. If adjustments or payment arrangements are agreed to by the
customer and the City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer, the customer's utility
services shall not be shut-off on the proposed date; provided, that if payments
are not made in accordance with the agreed payment schedule, the customer's
utilities may be shut-off upon 48 hours written notice to the customer. Such
notice shall be sent by first-class mail, and the 48 hour notice period shall
be deemed to begin at noon on the business day following the mailing of the
notice.
   (B)   Notice of appeal. Whether or not the City Clerk-Administrator-
Treasurer is contacted pursuant to §
53.07(A) hereof, a customer who disputes the amount of a utility bill, or who
is unable to pay all or part of the bill, may appeal the proposed shut-off of
utilities to the City Council by delivering written notice of appeal to the
City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer prior to the close of business on the date
in which utility services are to be shut-off. The notice of appeal may be made
on a form provided by the city, and in any event shall be dated and signed by
the customer, and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and phone number of customer;
      (2)   Utility account number;
      (3)   Date of bill and date of proposed shut-off;
      (4)   Amount of bill;
      (5)   If amount of bill is in dispute, the reasons for customer’s belief
that the bill is in error, and proposed adjustment; and
      (6)   If customer is unable to pay part or all of bill by shut-off date,
reasons for inability to pay and proposed payment arrangements.
   (C)   Hearing on appeal. Upon receipt of a notice of appeal, the City Clerk-
Administrator-Treasurer shall schedule a hearing before the City Council. The
hearing shall be scheduled as soon as practicable, and no later than 14 days
after the date of the notice of appeal. The customer's utilities shall not be
shut-off pending the appeal hearing. The customer shall be promptly notified of
the date, time, and place of the hearing by telephone, first-class mail, or any
other reasonable means. At the hearing, the customer may present any testimony
and evidence relevant to the appeal, and the members of the Council and/or
their designee may question the customer or other persons about any matter
relevant to the appeal. The City Council shall inform the customer of its
decision prior to the conclusion of the hearing. If requested by the customer,
the City Council shall provide a written summary of its findings and decision
within a reasonable time period. The City Council shall in any event maintain
such a summary for its own records.
   (D)   Decision of City Council. The City Council may make any of the
following decisions, based upon the facts and circumstances of the case:
      (1)   That the appeal is without merit and that the customer’s utilities
will be shut-off if full payment of the utility bill is not made within 48
hours after the conclusion of the hearing.
      (2)   In cases involving a dispute in the amount of the bill, that an
adjustment will be made to the bill and that the customer’s utility services
will be continued unless the customer fails to pay the corrected amount of the
bill within 48 hours after the conclusion of the hearing.
      (3)   In cases involving the customer's ability to pay, that payment
shall be deferred to a specified date or that a specific payment schedule shall
be followed, and that the customer's utility service shall be continued unless
the customer fails to make a payment in accordance with the specified
arrangements; and that, in the event of such failure, the customer's utilities
may be shut-off upon 48 hours written notice to the customer, such notice to be
sent by first-class mail and the 48 hour notice period to begin at noon on the
business day following the mailing of the notice.
   (E)   Guidelines of decision on appeal. In appeals based on the customer’s
inability to pay a utility bill, the City Council shall consider the following
criteria to determine whether it is appropriate to allow deferred payment as an
alternative to shutting off the customer’s utility service:
      (1)   The customer’s history of payment of utility bills;
      (2)   The nature and severity of the financial difficulties of the
customer;
      (3)   The assets of the customer available for payment of the utility
bill;
      (4)   The likelihood of ability to make deferred payment(s) as scheduled;
and
      (5)   The efforts made by the customer to obtain public assistance,
energy assistance, or other available resources for payment.
   (F)   Forgiveness of utility bills. Except in cases in which it is
determines that an error has been made in the customer’s utility bill, the City
Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer and the City Council shall have no authority to
permanently forgive any portion of the customer’s utility bill.
(Ord. passed 8-4-08)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   SNOWMOBILES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
76.   GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Adoption of state regulations
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 ADOPTION OF STATE REGULATIONS.
   M.S. Ch. 169, as it may be amended from time to time, entitled “Highway
Traffic Regulation Act of the Laws of the State of Minnesota,” be and the same
is hereby incorporated by reference and adopted as an ordinance relating to the
operation of motor vehicles upon the streets, alleys, private roads, public
roads and any other places within the city. The same is made a part hereof as
if set forth herein in full, except such provisions as are not applicable to
the city, which sections are specifically excepted. The penalty for violation
of the provisions of the state statute adopted by reference in this section
shall be identical with the penalty provided in the state statutes for the same
offense.
(Ord. 139, passed 11-4-74)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this traffic code for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
71.01   Erratic acceleration
   
71.02   Use of highways
§ 71.01 ERRATIC ACCELERATION.
   (A)   Acceleration of a motor vehicle without apparent reason and in a
manner as to cause squealing or screeching sounds by the tires or the throwing
of sand or gravel by the tires of the vehicle, or both, on any public or
private road or way within the city is prohibited.
   (B)   Prima facie evidence of the acceleration shall be squealing or
screeching sounds emitted by the tires or the throwing of sand or gravel by the
tires of the vehicle, or both.
(Ord. 152, passed 7-5-78) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 USE OF HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or halt any vehicles upon a street or highway
within the city carelessly or heedlessly in disregard of the rights or safety
of others or in a manner so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person
or property.
   (B)   No person who is an habitual user of narcotic drugs or who is under
the influence of narcotics or liquors shall drive or operate a vehicle on any
street within the city and no person shall consume liquor while an occupant of
a vehicle upon any street in the city.
(Ord. 83, passed 10-1-51) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   General prohibitions
   
72.02   Time periods; authority to tow and the like
§ 72.01 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Every vehicle parked upon any street with a curb shall be parked
parallel thereto, with the right-hand wheel of the vehicle within 12 inches
from the curb; provided however, that the Street Commissioner, with the
approval, may designate certain streets for diagonal parking. On other streets,
a vehicle shall be parked to the right of the main traveled portion thereof,
and parallel thereto, and in a manner that it shall not interfere with the free
flow of traffic.
   (B)   This shall not apply however to any disabled vehicle upon any street,
but every police officer of the city is authorized to require the person in
charge thereof to move it to a place of safety and, upon failure or neglect to
do so, or in the case of a vehicle being left alone or abandoned in a position,
the officer is authorized to provide for the removal of the vehicle to the
nearest convenient garage or other place of safe-keeping.
   (C)   No person shall park a vehicle or permit it to stand, whether attended
or unattended, upon any highway or street within the city, in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad or railroad
crossing;
      (8)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station;
      (9)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when the
stopping or standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (10)      On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the
edge or curb of a street, except when attended, with the motor running and a
driver occupying the drivers seat, but in no case for a period longer than
three minutes;
      (11)      At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
      (12)      For camping purposes, leave or park a house trailer on any
street or the right-of-way thereof; and/or
      (13)      For a vehicle of more than one ton capacity or an overall
length of more than 18 feet on any of the streets as designated by Council.
(Ord. 80, passed 2-6-50) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 TIME PERIODS; AUTHORITY TO TOW AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person or persons, copartnership or corporation shall place, store
or park any automobiles, machinery or other implements on the public street
within the corporate limits of the city for more than 24 consecutive hours.
   (B)   (1)   The police of the city have authority to tow away, by use of a
public truck or wrecker, any vehicles or other implements violating this
section to the nearest available facility for storage of the vehicle or other
implement; the towing and storage to be at the expense of the owner of the
vehicle or other implement.
      (2)   The city, its employees, agents and representatives shall not be
legally liable for carrying out the enforcement of this section, nor for damage
to the vehicle or other implement caused by its owner or the wrecker or truck
towing the vehicle or other implement.
(Ord. 49, passed 6- -26; Am. Ord. 151, passed 2-6-78) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: SNOWMOBILES
Section
   
73.01   Restricted operations
   
73.02   Responsibility
§ 73.01 RESTRICTED OPERATIONS.
   No snowmobile shall be operated within the city limits unless the operation
is in compliance with all of the following regulations.
   (A)   No snowmobile shall be operated on any city street, road or highway in
excess of a speed of ten mph.
   (B)   No person shall operate or ride in or on a snowmobile or any sled
attached thereto on any street, road or highway without wearing a safety helmet
of suitable construction to withstand head injury in the event of an accident
and no operator of a snowmobile shall permit any person to ride without
complying with this section.
   (C)   A complete stop shall be made at all intersections before entering
intersection.
   (D)   No snowmobile shall be operated between the hours of midnight and 6:00
a.m., except on Saturday and Sunday, when no operation shall be permitted from
1:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
   (E)   No snowmobile shall be operated at or upon any of the following:
      (1)   On any public sidewalk;
      (2)   On the private property of another without first obtaining
permission therefor from the owner thereof;
      (3)   Within 100 feet of any skating rink or sliding area, where the
operation would conflict with use or endanger other persons or property;
      (4)   Upon the city airport; or
      (5)   On the school grounds unless authorized by the School Board.
   (F)   There shall be no operation in violation of state law or in violation
of any regulation of the Department of Natural Resources.
(Ord. 131, passed 2-5-73; Am. Ord. 154, passed 3-14-79) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The operator of any snowmobile shall be deemed the agent of the owner
thereof and the owner shall be responsible in the event of any violation of
this chapter, if driven with the owner's permission, knowledge or consent, the
same as if the owner was operating the machine.
(Ord. 131, passed 2-5-73; Am. Ord. 154, passed 3-14-79)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop streets
SCHEDULE I. STOP STREETS.
   The following streets are designated “stop streets.” All vehicles shall come
to a full stop before entering the stop street.
 
Street                    Location Direction(s) Ord. No. Date Passed
Main Street (T.H. No. 55)         Both         63       1-18-38
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Restricted parking
SCHEDULE I. RESTRICTED PARKING.
   For the purpose of snow removal, the following are special parking
restrictions for city streets that fall under the jurisdiction of the city:
   (A)   Parking in regards to snow plowing and/or removal: from November 1 to
April 1, it shall be unlawful for the owner and/or driver of a motor vehicle
and/or trailer to stop, stand, or park the motor vehicle and/or trailer on any
city street or roadway between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. or until
the street has been plowed. This restriction shall not apply to city owned or
emergency vehicles in the regular performance of their duties.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle and/or trailer or a part thereof left on a city
street or boulevard in the city in such a way as to impede the performance of
city, county, and/or state snowplows or snow removal efforts shall be a
violation of this chapter, and the owner shall be issued a civil citation in an
amount set by the City Council. Any such civil citation shall be payable to the
city within seven days from the issuance of the citation. If the civil citation
is not paid within seven days, the owner shall be issued a petty misdemeanor
citation, which carries a maximum penalty of a $300 fine.
(Ord. passed 12-7-09)
CHAPTER 76: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
76.01   Definitions
   
76.02   Operation
   
76.03   Permits; insurance
   
76.04   Mechanical condition
   
76.05   Occupants
   
76.06   Restrictions
   
76.07   Suspension or revocation of permits
 
   
76.99   Penalty
§ 76.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTORIZED GOLF CART. Any passenger conveyance being driven with three or
four wheels with three or four low pressure tires that is limited in engine
displacement of less than 800 cubic centimeters and a total dry weight of less
than 800 pounds and that is not designed to operate at a speed of more than 25
miles per hour.
   DRIVER. The person driving or having physical control over the motorized
golf cart.
(Ord. passed 11-2-09)
§ 76.02 OPERATION.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motorized golf cart on streets in
the city without first obtaining a permit for said motorized golf cart as
provided herein. A properly permitted motorized golf cart may be operated on
city streets within the city.
(Ord. passed 11-2-09) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.03 PERMITS; INSURANCE.
   (A)   Permit issuance. Prior to issuance of any permit, a permit applicant
must supply the following information to the City Clerk-Administrator-
Treasurer:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Make, model name, year and serial number of the motorized golf
cart;
      (3)   Insurance company that insures the motorized golf cart, policy
number, expiration date, and insurance agent and telephone number; and
      (4)   Such other information as the city may require.
   (B)   Permit fee. An annual permit fee, if any, shall be established from
time to time by resolution or ordinance of the City Council. Weekly permits may
also be issued, with the fee being established from time to time by resolution
or ordinance of the City Council.
   (C)   Term of permit. Permits shall be granted for a period of one year and
may be renewed annually.
   (D)   Conditions of permit. No permit shall be granted or renewed unless the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The applicant must demonstrate that they currently hold a valid
driver’s license; and
      (2)   Any person authorized to operate a motorized golf cart must have a
valid driver’s license, proof of insurance, and the proper permit attached to
the rear of the motorized golf cart.
   (E)   Permit possession. All permits shall be issued for a specified
motorized golf cart. At all times when operating a motorized golf cart pursuant
to the permit, an individual authorized to operate such motorized golf cart
shall have available for inspection a copy of the permit and a city issued
registration or license plate attached to the rear of the motorized golf cart.
   (F)   Insurance required. Before a motorized golf cart permit is issued by
the city, and at all times effective during such permit period, the permit
holder shall have and maintain public liability and bodily injury insurance in
the amount established by Minnesota Statutes.
(Ord. passed 11-2-09) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.04 MECHANICAL CONDITION.
   The motorized golf cart must be in good mechanical condition, thoroughly
safe for transportation of passengers, and pose no risk to other vehicles or
pedestrians.
(Ord. passed 11-2-09) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.05 OCCUPANTS.
   The number of occupants in the motorized golf cart may not exceed the design
occupant load. In addition, a motorized golf cart may not attach any towing
device to a motorized golf cart and have individuals being transported in the
towing device.
(Ord. passed 11-2-09) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.06 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Designation of roadways. Motorized golf carts are permitted to be
operated only on city street, and may not be operated on county, state or
federal streets or highways except to cross at designated intersections.
   (B)   Times and operation. Motorized golf carts may only be operated on
designated roadways from sunrise to sunset. They shall not be operated in
inclement weather or when visibility is impaired by weather, smoke, fog, or
other conditions, or at any time when there is insufficient light to clearly
see persons and vehicles on the roadway at a distance of 500 feet. Motorized
golf carts shall not be operated in a negligent manner, so as to endanger any
person or property, or to obstruct, hinder or impede the lawful course of
travel of any motor vehicle or the lawful use by any pedestrian of public
streets, sidewalks, paths, trails, walkways, or parks.
   (C)   Application of traffic laws. Every person operating a motorized golf
cart under permit on city streets has all the rights and duties applicable to
the driver of any other vehicle under the provisions of any ordinance of the
city or Minnesota State Statutes, except when these provisions cannot
reasonably be applied to motorized golf carts and except as otherwise
specifically provided in M.S. § 169.045, Subd. 7.
   (D)   Slow moving vehicle emblem. Motorized golf carts shall display the
slow moving vehicle emblem provided for in M.S. § 169.522, when operated on
city streets.
   (E)   Rear view or side mirror. Motorized golf carts shall be equipped with
a rear view or side mirror to provide the driver with adequate vision from
behind.
(Ord. passed 11-2-09) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.07 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   The City Council may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon a
finding that the holder thereof has violated any provision of this chapter,
allows an unlicensed driver to operate the motorized golf cart, has violated
applicable Minnesota traffic laws, would fail to qualify for a permit at any
time, or if there is evidence that the permit holder cannot safely operate the
motorized golf cart.
(Ord. passed 11-2-09)
§ 76.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to the revocation or suspension of the permit, any person
violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 11-2-09)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
92.   SIDEWALKS
      
93.   FIRE LIMITS; PREVENTION
      
94.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Assessable current services
   
90.02   Tree diseases
Nuisances
   
90.15   Public nuisance; blighting factors
   
90.16   Public nuisances affecting health
   
90.17   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
90.18   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
90.19   Duties of city officers
   
90.20   Abatement
   
90.21   Recovery of cost
Weeds
   
90.35   Short title
   
90.36   Jurisdiction
   
90.37   Definitions; exclusions
   
90.38   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
90.39   Filing complaint
   
90.40   Notice of violations
   
90.41   Appeals
   
90.42   Abatement by city
   
90.43   Liability
Open Burning
   
90.60   Definitions
   
90.61   Prohibited materials
   
90.62   Permit required for open burning
   
90.63   Purposes allowed for open burning
   
90.64   Permit application for open burning; permit fees
   
90.65   Permit process for open burning
   
90.66   Permit holder responsibility
   
90.67   Revocation of open burning permit
   
90.68   Denial of open burning permit
   
90.69   Burning ban or air quality alert
   
90.70   Rules and laws adopted by reference
Cross-reference:
   Abatement of public nuisances, see §§
10.45 et seq.
   Administrative procedures and penalties, see §§
10.30 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CURRENT SERVICE. One or more of the following: snow, ice or rubbish
removal from sidewalks; weed elimination from street grass plots adjacent to
sidewalks or from private property; removal or elimination of public health or
safety hazards from private property, excluding any hazardous building included
in M.S. §§ 463.15 through 463.26, as they may amended from time to time;
installation or repair of water service lines; street sprinkling, street
flushing, light street oiling or other dust treatment of streets; repair of
sidewalks and alleys; trimming and care of trees and removal of unsound and
insect-infected trees from the public streets or private property; and the
operation of a street lighting system.
   (B)   Snow, ice, dirt and rubbish.
      (1)   Duty of owners and occupants. The owner and the occupant of any
property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use diligence to keep the walk
safe for pedestrians. No owner or occupant shall allow snow, ice, dirt or
rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 24 hours after its deposit thereon.
Failure to comply with this section shall constitute a violation.
      (2)   Removal by city. The City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer or other
person designated by the City Council may cause removal from all public
sidewalks all snow, ice, dirt and rubbish as soon as possible beginning 24
hours after any matter has been deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased
to fall. The City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer or other designated person
shall keep a record showing the cost of removal adjacent to each separate lot
and parcel.
   (C)   Public health and safety hazards. When the city removes or eliminates
public health or safety hazards from private property under the following
provisions of this chapter, the administrative officer responsible for doing
the work shall keep a record of the cost of the removal or elimination against
each parcel of property affected and annually deliver that information to the
City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer.
   (D)   Installation and repair of water service lines. Whenever the city
installs or repairs water service lines serving private property under Chapter
52 of this code, the City Clerk- Administrator-Treasurer shall keep a record of
the total cost of the installation or repair against the property.
   (E)   Repair of sidewalks and alleys.
      (1)   Duty of owner. The owner of any property within the city abutting a
public sidewalk or alley shall keep the sidewalk or alley in repair and safe
for pedestrians. Repairs shall be made in accordance with the standard
specifications approved by the City Council and on file in the office of the
City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer.
      (2)   Inspections; notice. The City Council or its designee shall make
inspections as are necessary to determine that public sidewalks and alleys
within the city are kept in repair and safe for pedestrians or vehicles. If it
is found that any sidewalk or alley abutting on private property is unsafe and
in need of repairs, the City Council shall cause a notice to be served, by
registered or certified mail or by personal service, upon the record owner of
the property, ordering the owner to have the sidewalk or alley repaired and
made safe within 30 days and stating that if the owner fails to do so, the city
will do so and that the expense thereof must be paid by the owner, and if
unpaid it will be made a special assessment against the property concerned.
      (3)   Repair by city. If the sidewalk or alley is not repaired within 30
days after receipt of the notice, the City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer shall
report the facts to the City Council and the City Council shall by resolution
order the work done by contract in accordance with law. The City Clerk-
Administrator-Treasurer shall keep a record of the total cost of the repair
attributable to each lot or parcel of property.
   (F)   Personal liability. The owner of property on which or adjacent to
which a current service has been performed shall be personally liable for the
cost of the service. As soon as the service has been completed and the cost
determined, the City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer, or other designated
official, shall prepare a bill and mail it to the owner and thereupon the
amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City Clerk-
Administrator-Treasurer.
   (G)   Damage to public property.
      (1)   Any person driving any vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance
upon any street, road, highway or structure shall be liable for all damages
which the surface or structure thereof may sustain as a result of any illegal
operation, or driving or moving of the vehicle, equipment or object or
contrivance; or as a result of operating, driving or moving any vehicle,
equipment, object or contrivance weighing in excess of the maximum weight
permitted by statute or this code.
      (2)   When the driver is not the owner of the vehicle, equipment, object
or contrivance, but is operating, driving or moving it with the express or
implied permission of the owner, then the owner and the driver shall be jointly
and severally liable for any such damage.
      (3)   Any person who willfully acts or fails to exercise due care and by
that act damages any public property shall be liable for the amount thereof,
which amount shall be collectable by action or as a lien under M.S. § 514.67,
as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   Assessment. On or before September 1 of each year, the City Clerk-
Administrator- Treasurer shall list the total unpaid charges for each type of
current service and charges under this section against each separate lot or
parcel to which they are attributable under this section. The City Council may
then spread the charges against property benefitted as a special assessment
under the authority of M.S. § 429.101 as it may be amended from time to time
and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County Auditor and
collection along with current taxes the following year or in annual
installments, not exceeding ten, as the City Council may determine in each
case.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.02 TREE DISEASES.
   (A)   Trees constituting nuisance declared. The following are public
nuisances whenever they may be found within the city:
      (1)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Dutch Elm disease fungus Ceratocystis Ulmi (Buisman) Moreau or
which harbors any of the elm bark beetles Scolytus Multistriatus (Eichh.) or
Hylungopinus Rufipes (Marsh);
      (2)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including branches, stumps,
firewood or other elm material from which the bark has not been removed and
burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide;
      (3)   Any living or standing oak tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Oak Wilt fungus Ceratocystis fagacearum;
      (4)   Any dead oak tree or part thereof which in the opinion of the
designated officer constitutes a hazard, including but not limited to logs,
branches, stumps, roots, firewood or other oak material which has not been
stripped of its bark and burned or sprayed with an effective fungicide; and
      (5)   Any other shade tree with an epidemic disease.
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance. It is unlawful for any person to permit any
public nuisance as defined in division (A) of this section to remain on any
premises the person owns or controls within the city. The City Council may by
resolution order the nuisance abated. Before action is taken on that
resolution, the City Council shall publish notice of its intention to meet to
consider taking action to abate the nuisance. This notice shall be mailed to
the affected property owner and published once no less than one week prior to
the meeting. The notice shall state the time and place of the meeting, the
street affected, action proposed, the estimated cost of the abatement, and the
proposed basis of assessment, if any, of costs. At such hearing or adjournment
thereof, the City Council shall hear any property owner with reference to the
scope and desirability of the proposed project. The City Council shall
thereafter adopt a resolution confirming the original resolution with
modifications as it considers desirable and provide for the doing of the work
by day labor or by contract.
   (C)   Record of costs. The City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer shall keep a
record of the costs of abatement done under this section for all work done for
which assessments are to be made, stating and certifying the description of the
land, lots, parcels involved, and the amount chargeable to each.
   (D)   Unpaid charges. On or before September 1 of each year, the City Clerk-
Administrator-Treasurer shall list the total unpaid charges for each abatement
against each separate lot or parcel to which they are attributable under this
section. The City Council may then spread the charges or any portion thereof
against the property involved as a special assessment as authorized by M.S. §
429.101, as it may be amended from time to time, and other pertinent statutes
for certification to the County Auditor and collection the following year along
with the current taxes.
Penalty, see §
10.99
NUISANCES
§ 90.15 PUBLIC NUISANCE; BLIGHTING FACTORS.
   (A)   Whoever, by his or her act or failure to perform a legal duty,
intentionally does any of the following is guilty of maintaining a public
nuisance, which is a misdemeanor:
      (1)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures
or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
      (2)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage any
public highway or right-of-way or waters used by the public; or
      (3)   Is guilty of any other act or omission declared by law or §§
90.16, 90.17 or 90.18, or any other part of this code to be a public nuisance
and for which no sentence is specifically provided.
   (B)   (1) It is hereby determined that the uses, structures and activities
and cause of blight or blighting factors described herein, if allowed to exist,
will tend to result in blighted and undesirable neighborhoods so as to be
harmful to the public welfare, health and safety. The purpose of this division
(B) is to protect the character and stability of the properties within the city
and to avoid blight and blighted conditions. The owner and occupant shall
comply with the regulations contained herein.
      (2)   (a)   All exterior property areas and vacant areas shall be
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition, safe and free from any hazard or
dangerous condition, and free from any accumulation of refuse or garbage.
         (b)   All exterior property areas and vacant areas shall be kept free
from species of weeds or plant growth, rodents, vermin or other pests, which
are noxious or detrimental to the public health. Any weeds or grasses growing
upon any lot or parcel of land or boulevard abutting the land; within an area
of the city zoned as a residential or commercial in which the weeds or grasses
grow to a height greater than 12 inches, or which have gone or about to go to
seed, are a nuisance. The owner or occupant shall abate or prevent the nuisance
on the property, or on the boulevard abutting the property. (Excluded from
grass height limits are all lake and river lots and any lots that are more than
50% forested throughout the entire lot.)
         (c)   Any junk automobile as defined hereinafter in this section
constitutes a hazard to the welfare of the residents of the community in that
such vehicles can harbor noxious diseases, furnish a shelter and breeding place
for vermin and present physical danger to the safety and well-being of children
and citizens, and automobiles containing fluids which, if released into the
environment, can and do cause significant health risks. Any such junk
automobile shall not be kept, parked, stored, or abandoned within the city.
            1.   For the purpose of this division (B)(2)(c), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
               JUNK AUTOMOBILES. Any motor vehicle which is not in operating
condition, partially dismantled, used for repair of parts or as a source of
repair or replacement parts for other vehicles, kept for scrapping, dismantling
or salvage of any kind, or which is not properly licensed for operation with
the state, pursuant to M.S. § 168B.011, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time
to time. This definition shall not apply to a motor vehicle enclosed in a
building and/or kept out of view from any street, road, or alley, and which
does not foster a complaint from a resident of the city.
               JUNK EQUIPMENT. Equipment such as farm equipment and other
machinery, all terrain vehicles, snowmobiles, motorcycles, lawnmowers,
snowblowers and all other machinery or equipment powered by a motor and shall
include any part of machinery or equipment, stored in the open, which is not
currently licensed for use upon the highways of the state or is not required to
be so licensed, and is either:
                  i.   Unusable or inoperable because of lack of or defects in
component parts;
                  ii.   Unusable or inoperable because of damage from
collision, deterioration or having been cannibalized;
                  iii.   Beyond repair and therefore not intended for future
use as a motor vehicle; or
                  iv.   Being retained on the property for possible use of
salvageable parts.
            2.   These regulations are in addition to any zoning regulations.
      (3)   (a)   The exterior of all structures and accessory structures,
including detached garages, shall be maintained in a workman-like state of
maintenance and repair.
         (b)   Every exterior wall shall be free of holes, breaks, loose or
rotting boards or timbers, falling or loose stucco.
         (c)   All doors and windows shall be maintained in good repair, fit
reasonably well within their frames and be free of open breaks or holes.
      (4)   (a)   The interior of every structure shall be maintained in clean
and sanitary condition, free of accumulations of garbage and refuse.
         (b)   The interior of every structure shall be maintained free from
infestation of noxious insects, rodents and other pests.
         (c)   All plumbing systems shall be properly installed, connected and
maintained in good working order and must be kept free from obstructions, leaks
and defects.
         (d)   The storage of excessive or unreasonable amounts of hazardous,
flammable liquids shall be prohibited in areas not zoned for such use.
(Ord. 187, passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 12-7-09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.16 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business, as defined by statute, not operating
under local license.
(Ord. 187, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.17 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized by federal, state or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining that place; and
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating
liquor, for promiscuous sexual intercourse or any other immoral or illegal
purpose.
(Ord. 187, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.18 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 24 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   All obnoxious noises in violation of Minn. Rules Ch. 7030, as they may
be amended from time to time which are hereby incorporated by reference into
this code;
   (E)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharging of the
exhaust of any stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all terrain vehicle, snowmobile or any recreational
device, except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud
or explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
   (F)   The using or operation or permitting the using or operation of any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine or
other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a distinctly and loudly
audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of any person
nearby; (Operation of any device referred to above between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at the property line
of the structure or building in which it is located, or at a distance of 50
feet if the source is located outside a structure or building shall be prima
facie evidence of violation of this section.)
   (G)   The participation in a party or gathering of people giving rise to
noise which disturbs the peace, quiet or repose of the occupants of adjoining
or other property;
   (H)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds, except under conditions as are
permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (I)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (J)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (K)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not constructed
and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (L)   The allowing of rain water, ice or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (M)      Any barbed wire fence less than six feet above the ground and
within three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (N)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (O)   Wastewater cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other public
properties;
   (P)   Accumulations, in the open, of discarded or disused machinery,
household appliances, automobile bodies or other material in a manner conducive
to the harboring of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, or the rank growth of
vegetation among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health
or safety hazards from accumulation;
   (Q)   Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
another condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (R)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter or ditch with trash of other materials;
   (S)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
   (T)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property; and
   (U)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone.
(Ord. 187, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.19 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   The Police Department or Sheriff, if the city has at the time no Police
Department, shall enforce the provisions relating to nuisances. Any peace
officer shall have the power to inspect private premises and take all
reasonable precautions to prevent the commission and maintenance of public
nuisances.
(Ord. 187, passed - -)
§ 90.20 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice. Written notice of violation; notice of the time, date, place
and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of City Council
order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be given as
set forth in this section.
      (1)   Notice of violation. Written notice of violation shall be served by
a peace officer on the owner of record or occupant of the premises either in
person or by certified or registered mail. If the premises is not occupied, the
owner of record is unknown, or the owner of record or occupant refuses to
accept notice of violation, notice of violation shall be served by posting it
on the premises.
      (2)   Notice of City Council hearing. Written notice of any City Council
hearing to determine or abate a nuisance shall be served on the owner of record
and occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or registered
mail. If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the
owner of record or occupant refuses to accept notice of the City Council
hearing, notice of City Council hearing shall be served by posting it on the
premises.
      (3)   Notice of City Council order. Except for those cases determined by
the city to require summary enforcement, written notice of any City Council
order shall be made as provided in M.S. § 463.17, Hazardous and Substandard
Building Act, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Notice of motion for summary enforcement. Written notice of any
motion for summary enforcement shall be made as provided for in M.S. § 463.17,
Hazardous and Substandard Building Act, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Procedure. Whenever a peace officer determines that a public nuisance
is being maintained or exists on the premises in the city, the officer shall
notify, in writing, the owner of record or occupant of the premises of the fact
and order that the nuisance be terminated or abated. The notice of violation
shall specify the steps to be taken to abate the nuisance and the time within
which the nuisance is to be abated. If the notice of violation is not complied
with within the time specified, the officer shall report that fact forthwith to
the City Council. Thereafter, the City Council may, after notice to the owner
or occupant and an opportunity to be heard, determine that the condition
identified in the notice of violation is a nuisance and further order that if
the nuisance is not abated within the time prescribed by the City Council, the
city may seek injunctive relief by serving a copy of the City Council order and
notice of motion for summary enforcement.
   (C)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement. In cases of emergency, where
delay in abatement required to complete the notice and procedure requirements
set forth in divisions (A) and (B) of this section will permit a continuing
nuisance to unreasonably endanger public health safety or welfare, the City
Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance. To proceed with
summary enforcement, the officer shall determine that a public nuisance exists
or is being maintained on premises in the city and that delay in abatement of
the nuisance will unreasonably endanger public health, safety or welfare. The
officer shall notify, in writing, the occupant or owner of the premises of the
nature of the nuisance and of the city's intention to seek summary enforcement
and the time and place of the City Council meeting to consider the question of
summary enforcement. The City Council shall determine whether or not the
condition identified in the notice to the owner or occupant is a nuisance,
whether public health, safety or welfare will be unreasonably endangered by
delay in abatement required to complete the procedure set forth in division (A)
of this section, and may order that the nuisance be immediately terminated or
abated. If the nuisance is not immediately terminated or abated, the City
Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition which
poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
(Ord. 187, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.21 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the
abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Clerk-Administrator- Treasurer or
other official shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner.
Thereupon, the amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the
City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer.
   (B)   Assessment. If the nuisance is a public health or safety hazard on
private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public sidewalks, the
growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled portion of streets,
or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City Clerk- Administrator-Treasurer
shall, on or before September 1 next following abatement of the nuisance, list
the total unpaid charges along with all other the charges as well as other
charges for current services to be assessed under M.S § 429.101 against each
separate lot or parcel to which the charges are attributable. The City Council
may then spread the charges against the property under that statute and other
pertinent statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collection along
with current taxes the following year or in annual installments, not exceeding
ten, as the City Council may determine in each case.
(Ord. 187, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
WEEDS
§ 90.35 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be cited as the “Weed Ordinance.”
§ 90.36 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter shall be in addition to any state statute or county
ordinance presently in effect, subsequently added, amended or repealed.
§ 90.37 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the City Council or designated
city official, in cases of appeal, on the property owner of the ordinance
violation.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-
of-way, easement, license or lease.
      WEEDS, GRASSES and RANK VEGETATION. Includes, but is not limited to the
following:
         (1)   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation shall include but not be
limited to: alum (allium), Buckthorn, Bur Cucumber, Canada Thistle, Corncockle,
Cressleaf Groundsel, Curly Dock, Dodder, Field Bindweed, French Weed, Hairy
Whitetop, Hedge Bindweed, Hoary Cress, Horsenettle, Johnsongrass, Leafy Spurge,
Mile-A-Minute Weed, Musk Thistle, Oxeye Daisy, Perennial Sowthistle, Poison
Hemlock, Purple Loosestrife, Quackgrass, Russian Knapweed, Russian Thistle,
Serrated Tussock, Shatter Cane, Sorghum, Wild Carrot, Wild Garlic, Wild
Mustard, Wild Onion, Wild Parsnip;
         (2)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not pruned,
sprayed, cultivated or otherwise maintained for two consecutive years;
         (3)   Bushes of the species of tall, common or European barberry,
further known as berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties;
         (4)   Any weeds, grass or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers or
other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding 12 inches;
         (5)   Rank vegetation includes the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth
of annuals and perennial plants; and
         (6)   The term WEEDS does not include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants
or crops.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
§ 90.38 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   All property owners shall be responsible for the removal, cutting or
disposal and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other
uncontrolled plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice, is in
excess of 12 inches in height.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.39 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the city, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the city which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter shall make a written complaint signed, dated and
filed with the City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer. If the city makes the
complaint, an employee, officer or Council member of the city shall file the
complaint in all respects as set out above.
§ 90.40 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in violation
of this subchapter, a person designated by the City Council shall make an
inspection and prepare a written report to the City Council regarding the
condition. The City Council, upon concluding that there is a probable belief
that this subchapter has been violated, shall forward written notification in
the form of a destruction order to the property owner or the person occupying
the property as that information is contained within the records of the City
Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer or any other city agency. The notice shall be
served, in writing, by certified mail. The notice shall provide that within
seven regular business days after the receipt of the notice that the designated
violation shall be removed by the property owner or person occupying the
property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing and all filings are to be with
the City Clerk- Administrator-Treasurer.
      (2)   Certified mailing to the City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer or
others is deemed filed on the date of posting to the United States Postal
Service.
§ 90.41 APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the City Council within 48 hours of the notice, excluding weekends and
holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the City Council. It is
the property owner's responsibility to demonstrate that the matter in question
is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops or is not otherwise in violation
of this subchapter, and should not be subject to destruction under the
subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the City
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council members in
attendance and being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the City
Council.
§ 90.42 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
destruction order within seven regular business days and has not filed a notice
within 48 hours to the City Clerk- Administrator-Treasurer of an intent to
appeal, the City Council may employ the services of city employees or outside
contractors and remove the weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful
means.
§ 90.43 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting or
destruction of weeds, as defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including, but not limited to court costs, attorney's
fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the city. If the city uses
municipal employees, it shall set and assign an appropriate per hour rate for
employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the City
Clerk- Administrator-Treasurer and to be deposited in a general fund as
compensation for expenses and costs incurred by the city.
   (D)   All sums payable by the property owner may be collected as a special
assessment as provided by M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time.
OPEN BURNING
§ 90.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE CHIEF, FIRE MARSHAL and ASSISTANT FIRE MARSHALS. The Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal and Assistant Fire Marshals of the Fire Department which provides fire
protection services to the city.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter if the resultant combustion products
are emitted directly to the atmosphere without passing through a stack, duct or
chimney, except a “recreational fire” as defined herein. Mobile cooking devices
such as manufactured hibachis, charcoal grills, wood smokers and propane or
natural gas devices are not defined as OPEN BURNING.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire set with approved starter fuel no more than three
feet in height, contained within the border of a “recreational fire site” using
dry, clean wood; producing little detectable smoke, odor or soot beyond the
property line; conducted with an adult tending the fire at all times; for
recreational, ceremonial, food preparation for social purposes; extinguished
completely before quitting the occasion; and respecting weather conditions,
neighbors, burning bans and air quality so that nuisance, health or safety
hazards will not be created. No more than one RECREATIONAL FIRE is allowed on
any property at one time.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE. An area of no more than a three foot diameter circle
(measured from the inside of the fire ring or border); completely surrounded by
non-combustible and non-smoke or odor producing material, either of natural
rock, cement, brick, tile or blocks or ferrous metal only an which area is
depressed below ground, on the ground, or on a raised bed. Included are
permanent outdoor wood burning fireplaces. Burning barrels are not a RECREATION
FIRE SITE, as defined herein. RECREATIONAL FIRE SITES shall not be located
closer than 25 feet to any structure.
   STARTER FUELS. Dry, untreated, unpainted, kindling, branches, cardboard or
charcoal fire starter. Paraffin candles and alcohols are permitted as STARTER
FUELS and as aids to ignition only. Propane gas torches or other clean gas
burning devices causing minimal pollution must be used to start an open burn.
   WOOD. Dry, clean fuel only such as twigs, branches, limbs, “presto logs,”
charcoal, cord wood or untreated dimensional lumber. The term does not include
wood that is green with leaves or needles, rotten, wet, oil soaked or treated
with paint, glue or preservatives. Clean pallets may be used for recreational
fires when cut into three foot lengths.
§ 90.61 PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning oils, petro
fuels, rubber, plastics, chemically treated materials or other materials which
produce excessive or noxious smoke such as tires, railroad ties, treated,
painted or glued wood composite shingles, tar paper, insulation, composition
board, sheetrock, wiring, paint or paint fillers.
   (B)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of hazardous
waste or salvage operations, open burning of solid waste generated from an
industrial or manufacturing process or from a service or commercial
establishment or building material generated from demolition of commercial or
institutional structures.
   (C)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of discarded
material resulting from the handling, processing, storage, preparation, serving
or consumption of food.
   (D)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of any leaves or
grass clippings.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.62 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   No person shall start or allow any open burning on any property in the city
without first having obtained an open burn permit, except that a permit is not
required for any fire which is a recreational fire, as defined in §
90.60.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.63 PURPOSES ALLOWED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Open burn permits may be issued only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Elimination of fire of health hazard that cannot be abated by other
practical means;
      (2)   Ground thawing for utility repair and construction;
      (3)   Disposal of vegetative matter for managing forest, prairie or
wildlife habitat, and in the development and maintenance of land and rights-of-
way where chipping, composting, landspreading or other alternative methods are
not practical;
      (4)   Disposal of diseased trees generated on site, diseased or infected
nursery stock, diseased bee hives; and/or
      (5)   Disposal of unpainted, untreated, non-glued lumber and wood shakes
generated from construction, where recycling, reuse, removal or other
alternative disposal methods are not practical.
   (B)   Fire training permits can only issued by the Minnesota Department of
Natural Resources.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.64 PERMIT APPLICATION FOR OPEN BURNING; PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Open burning permits shall be obtained by making application on a form
prescribed the Department of Natural Resources (DNR) and adopted by the Fire
Department. The permit application shall be presented to the Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal and Assistant Fire Marshals for reviewing and processing those
applications.
   (B)   An open burning permit shall require the payment of a fee. Permit fees
shall be in the amount established by the Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.65 PERMIT PROCESS FOR OPEN BURNING.
   Upon receipt of the completed open burning permit application and permit
fee, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Assistant Fire Marshals shall schedule a
preliminary site inspection to locate the proposed burn site, note special
conditions and set dates and time of permitted burn and review fire safety
considerations.
§ 90.66 PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Prior to starting an open burn, the permit holder shall be responsible
for confirming that no burning ban or air quality alert is in effect. Every
open burn event shall be constantly attended by the permit holder or his or her
competent representative. The open burning site shall have available,
appropriate communication and fire suppression equipment as set out in the fire
safety plan.
   (B)   The open burn fire shall be completely extinguished before the permit
holder or his or her representative leaves the site. No fire may be allowed to
smolder with no person present. It is the responsibility of the permit holder
to have a valid permit, as required by this subchapter, available for
inspection on the site by the Police Department, Fire Department, MPCA
representative or DNR forest officer.
   (C)   (1)   The permit holder is responsible for compliance and
implementation of all general conditions, special conditions and the burn event
safety plan as established in the permit issued.
      (2)   The permit holder shall be responsible for all costs incurred as a
result of the burn, including, but not limited to fire suppression and
administrative fees.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.67 REVOCATION OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   The open burning permit is subject to revocation at the discretion of DNR
forest officer, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Assistant Fire Marshals.
Reasons for revocation include, but are not limited to a fire hazard existing
or developing during the course of the burn, any of the conditions of the
permit being violated during the course of the burn, pollution or nuisance
conditions developing during the course of the burn or a fire smoldering with
no flame present.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.68 DENIAL OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   If established criteria for the issuance of an open burning permit are not
met during review of the application, it is determined that a practical
alternative method for disposal of the material exists, or a pollution or
nuisance condition would result, or if a burn event safety plan cannot be
drafted to the satisfaction of the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Assistant Fire
Marshals, these officers may deny the application for the open burn permit.
§ 90.69 BURNING BAN OR AIR QUALITY ALERT.
   No recreational fire or open burn will be permitted when the city or DNR has
officially declared a burning ban due to potential hazardous fire conditions or
when the MPCA has declared an Air Quality Alert.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.70 RULES AND LAWS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. §§ 88.16 to 88.22 and the Minnesota Uniform Fire
Code, Minn. Rules Ch. 1510, as these statutes and rules may be amended from
time to time, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
subchapter as if fully set forth at this point.
CHAPTER 91: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
91.01   General rules for parks, parkways, campgrounds and other properties
   
91.02   Traffic regulations
   
91.03   Bathing and bathing beaches
   
91.04   Boats, boating and water skiing
   
91.05   Violations; authority
§ 91.01 GENERAL RULES FOR PARKS, PARKWAYS, CAMPGROUNDS AND OTHER PROPERTIES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Elbow Lake.
      PARKS and PARKWAYS. Parks, parkways, playgrounds, recreation fields and
buildings, lakes, rivers and beaches therein, and all public service facilities
conducted on grounds, buildings and structures in the city parks and parkways
which are under the control of the City Council.
   (B)   No person shall be, or remain in, or leave, park or remain in any
vehicle in any park, parkway or drive between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m., but this section shall not apply to those who are authorized to remain in
a park or on a parkway, such as caretakers and authorized overnight campers.
   (C)   No person shall cut, break, scratch, mar or, in any way, injure or
deface any building, fence, pump, lamp, flagpole, construction improvement,
facility or any other feature or property upon or within any park or parkway.
   (D)   No person not an employee of the Council shall pick or cut any wild or
cultivated flower or cut, break or, in any way, injure or deface any tree,
shrub or plant within the limits of any park or parkway; nor carry within or
out of any park or parkway any wild flower, tree, shrub, plant or any newly
plucked branch or portion thereof or any soil or material of any kind.
   (E)   No person shall throw, deposit, place or leave in any park or parkway
or waters therein, any paper, rubbish, waste or refuse of any kind, whether or
not the same is offensive to the senses or is injurious to health, except in
the receptacles therein provided for waste.
   (F)   No person shall post, paste, fasten, paint or affix any placard, bill,
notice or sign anywhere within any park or parkway without the express
permission of the Council or an employee of the Council authorized to give the
permission.
   (G)   No person shall fire or discharge any firearm of any description or
fire, explode or set off any squib, cracker or other firework or thing
containing powder or other combustible or explosive material, within the limits
of any park or parkway, excepting exhibitions of fireworks given under the
direction or by permission of the Council.
   (H)   No person shall rob, injure or destroy any bird's nest within the
limits of any park or parkway, nor aim or discharge any air gun, sling-shot or
other weapon or throw any stone or other missile at any bird or bird’s nest or
wild animal within any park or parkway, nor in any manner capture or kill any
bird or wild animal therein.
   (I)   No person shall, at any time, set, lay, prepare or have in possession
any trap, snare, artificial light, net, bird line, ferret or any contrivance
whatever, for the purpose of catching, taking or killing any bird or wild
animal in any park or parkway.
   (J)   No person shall play ball, golf, tennis or other game upon or within
any park or parkway that interferes with normal park activities, except upon
ball, tennis or appropriate athletic grounds or golf links, established by the
Council and designated as such.
   (K)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any article or thing whatsoever
in any park or parkway. This shall not be deemed to prohibit sale by the
Council or by authorized employees.
   (L)   No threatening, profane, abusive, disorderly, insulting or indecent
language, conduct or behavior, nor any act tending to a breach of the public
peace, shall be allowed in or upon any park or parkway; nor shall any person
play at games of chance, or do any indecent, lascivious, lewd or improper act
therein.
   (M)      No band, procession, military company or any company with flags,
banners or transparencies, shall be allowed in or upon any park or parkway
without permission issued by the Council or its designated employee.
   (N)   No entertainment or exhibition shall be given in any park or parkway,
excepting the entertainments given under the direction and authority of the
Council.
   (O)   No public meeting of any kind shall be held in any park, parkway,
playground or athletic field, nor shall there be any public speaking therein,
without a permit granted therefor by the Council or its designated employee.
   (P)   (1)   No person shall start any fire in any park or upon any parkway,
except that small fires for culinary purposes may be made by picnic parties in
the parks designated by the Council, but only in the places in the parks
provided for that purpose by the Council and under its direction.
      (2)   Every person who starts any fire and every person using the fire is
hereby charged with the duty of completely extinguishing the fire or fires
before leaving the park.
   (Q)   Except for domestic cats and dogs, no animals shall be allowed in any
park or on any parkway. Other animals may be allowed only with special
permission of the Council. All animals shall, at all times, be leashed and
under the control of the owner. The owner shall be responsible for the removal
of all animal excrement. The Council may, by resolution, designate areas in any
park or any parkway where animals shall not be permitted.
   (R)   Intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor may only be consumed in an
area designated for picnics or camping. Consumption in other areas shall be by
permission of the Council only. No kegs shall be allowed without Council
permission.
   (S)   Rules and regulations in conformity with this chapter may be made from
time to time by the Council governing the further use and enjoyment of parks,
parkways, playgrounds, lakes, streams and rivers and the facilities thereof and
thereon.
   (T)   Any person who shall violate such rules or regulations or who refuses
to subject himself or herself thereof, may be excluded from the use of the
facility. Any person who refuses to obey any order or exclusion or who
persistently interferes with the orderly conduct of games or play or with the
participants therein shall be guilty of disorderly conduct and upon conviction
shall be punished as for that offense.
(Ord. 175, passed 6-7-92) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.02 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DRIVER. The rider or driver of a horse, the riders of bicycles and the
operator of a vehicle, motorcycle or public conveyance.
      PARKWAYS or DRIVE. Every way or place under jurisdiction of the City
Council located within any park under the jurisdiction of the City Council
which is open to the use of the public as a matter or right for purposes of
vehicular traffic.
      VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or thing is or may
be transported or drawn upon a public highway, excepting devices used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks and also excepting snowmobiles.
   (B)   (1)   Vehicles shall be driven in a careful manner and with due regard
for the safety and convenience of pedestrians and all other vehicles.
      (2)   (a)   Upon all parkways and drives of sufficient width a vehicle
shall be driven as closely as possible to the right-hand edge or curb of the
road unless it is impracticable to do so and except as otherwise provided for
herein.
         (b)   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least
one-half of the main traveled portion of the roadway, as nearly as possible.
      (3)   No vehicle shall stop on any crosswalk so as to interfere with the
passage of pedestrians.
      (4)   On all parkways or drives divided by walk, viaduct, grass area or,
in any other manner, where divisions are sign-posted or otherwise marked or
indicated, vehicles shall keep to the right of the divisions.
      (5)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of the island.
      (6)   Upon a parkway or drive where the Council has established a one-way
drive and the drive is sign-posted or otherwise marked or indicated, a vehicle
shall be driven only in the direction designated.
      (7)   The driver or a vehicle on a parkway about to be overtaken and
passed by another vehicle approaching from the rear shall give way to the right
in favor of the overtaking vehicle on suitable and audible signal being given
by the driver of the overtaking vehicle and shall not increase the speed of his
or her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
      (8)   No vehicle or horse is permitted on any footwalk, lawn or any other
grounds or parks or parkways not designated for traffic, riding or parking
purposes.
      (9)   No vehicle shall be left standing on a drive, parkway or park at
night without light unless lights thereon are displayed so as to be visible
from the front and rear.
      (10)      When taking up or discharging freight or passengers, vehicles
shall be headed in the direction of traffic on the right of the driveway.
      (11)      (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or
manipulate in any park or upon any parkway designated as a city park, any
detached or attached spotlight or flashlight, except for emergency purposes.
         (b)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to agents,
servants or employees of the hospital, police or fire departments of the city
or county or township when the operation or use of the lights by them are
connected with, and necessary to the performance of their duties.
   (C)   Every motor vehicle shall, at all times, be equipped with a muffler in
good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual
noise and no person shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass or similar devise upon
a motor vehicle on any parkway or drive. Every motor vehicle shall, at all
times, be equipped with such parts and equipment so arranged and kept in a
state of repair as to prevent carbon monoxide gas from entering the interior of
the vehicle.
   (D)   No person shall park a vehicle or permit it to stand within any
district or section of a parkway or drive where the Council has established a
“no parking zone” when the zone is marked by yellow curb, sign or otherwise
marked or indicated. Parking at regularly designated parking concourses shall
be in accordance with the markings and no person shall park his or her car in
any other manner, except as so designated.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a street or highway at a
speed greater, than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having
regard to the actual and potential hazards then existing. In every event, speed
shall be so restricted as may be necessary in order to avoid colliding with any
person, vehicle or other conveyance on or entering the highway in compliance
with legal requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
      (2)   No vehicle shall be driven thereon, at a speeding excess of 15 mph
on any street or highway or parkway on which a different speed has not been
established by the Commissioner of Highways under M.S. § 169.14, as it may be
amended from time to time. No vehicle shall be driven at a speed in excess of
ten mph on the “campground loop” at Tipsinah Mounds Park. On any parkway where
a different speed zone has been so established and signs have been posted
calling attention to the zone, no vehicle shall be driven at a speed greater
than that indicated on the signs.
      (3)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to
impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when
reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with the law.
      (4)   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the
requirements, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when approaching and
crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when approaching and going
around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow
or winding roadway and when special hazard exists with respect to pedestrian or
other traffic or by reason of weather or highway or street conditions.
      (5)   In every charge of violation of any speed regulation in this
section, the complaint, also the summons or notice to appear, shall specify the
speed at which the defendant is alleged to have driven, also the speed limit
applicable within the district or at the location.
      (6)   The provisions of this section declaring speed limitation shall not
be construed to relieve the plaintiff in any civil action from the burden of
proving negligence on the part of the defendant as to the proximate cause of an
accident.
   (F)   No driver of any vehicle shall tow behind or on the side or push in
front of it any toboggan; sled, ice skates, roller skates, bicycle, coaster,
toy vehicle or any other sliding or coating device, nor permit any person
riding in or upon the device to attach same or himself or herself to the
vehicle, nor permit any person to board or alight from. nor hang onto the
vehicle when in motion.
   (G)   Specifically excluded from this section are boat and utility trailers
licensed by the state and meeting the safety requirements for the licensing.
   (H)   No vehicle of any kind or character shall be permitted to drive across
or on park lands, expect on roadways, except vehicles and machines as operated
by the Council or its authorized agents and employees.
   (I)   (1)   The driver of every vehicle shall bring the vehicle to a
complete stop where there is in place any light, sign, standard or marking upon
which appears the word “STOP.”
      (2)   The driver shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk or, if
none, then before entering the intersection or at any stop sign or other sign
or markings indicating where to stop.
      (3)   The driver may then proceed with caution yielding to vehicles not
so obligated to stop which are within the intersection or approaching so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard, the vehicles approaching the
intersection shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle so proceeding into or
across the intersection.
   (J)   Every person riding a bicycle or an animal or driving any animal upon
a roadway or parkway shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions of this chapter
which, by their nature, can have no application. This shall not be deemed as
authorization to ride or drive animals in a park or on a parkway without
permission of the Council.
(Ord. 175, passed 6-7-92) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 BATHING AND BATHING BEACHES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall bathe in or enter the waters of any park or
parkway, except at bathing places designated by the Council. No person shall
ride, drive or send any animal into the waters of any park or parkway.
      (2)   No person shall expose himself or herself to public view in any
park or parkway or on any lake unless properly clothed. Suitable swimming
attire shall be deemed “properly clothed” within the meaning of this chapter
while swimming or bathing at designated bathing beaches or in the immediate
vicinity thereof.
      (3)   No person shall frequent any park waters or bathing beach for the
purpose of swimming or bathing or congregating with others or to swim or bathe
or congregate there at between the hours of sundown or 10:00 p.m., whichever is
earlier, and 6:00 a.m. or sunrise, whichever is later, of the following day.
      (4)   Except as a part of launching or removing a boat, no person shall
swim, wade, float or otherwise be in the water in the area where boats, other
than boats belonging to the Council are launched, removed or moored.
(Ord. 175, passed 6-7-92)
   (B)   A curfew of   10:30 p.m. is hereby established for city-owned and
city-operated beaches, including any and all beaches the city acts jointly with
other municipalities or governmental agencies in the ownership or operation of
a beach. This section is specifically intended to include the property located
on and adjacent to the beach area itself.
(Ord. 155, passed 7-2-79)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 BOATS, BOATING AND WATER SKIING.
   (A)   Except where it is specifically permitted, no person shall aquaplane
or water ski in any waters under the jurisdiction of the Council.
   (B)   No person shall operate a boat or tow any person behind the boat on a
lake or river in any area occupied or used by other persons as a swimming or
boating area at a speed or in a manner which endangers or threatens injury to
the person or property of the persons using the rivers or lakes.
   (C)   Persons driving the boat and persons riding the aquaplane or water
skis shall both be held in violation of this chapter if this section is
violated.
(Ord. 175, passed 6-7-92) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05 VIOLATIONS; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   If any person shall be found guilty in a court of competent
jurisdiction of the violation of any provision of this chapter, the conviction
shall thereupon operate as a revocation of any permit issued pursuant to this
chapter without further action on the part of the Council. The Council shall
also have the authority to revoke, for good cause, any permit issued by the
Council, but, except upon conviction in court, the person whose permit is
subject to be revoked, shall have at least five days notice thereof, in
writing, and an opportunity to appear before the Council to show cause why his
or her permit should not be revoked.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not prevent the agents, servants
and employees of the Council from doing those things which are necessary to the
performance of their duties.
   (C)   The Council may authorize the issuance of permits which may permit the
holders thereof:
      (1)   To remain in the parks or on the parkways during otherwise
prohibited hours;
      (2)   Post notices;
      (3)   Park vehicles in otherwise unauthorized areas; and
      (4)   Aquaplane or water ski in otherwise prohibited areas.
   (D)   If any provision or provisions of this chapter are declared to be
unconstitutional by a competent court, the decision shall not affect any other
part or portion of this chapter.
(Ord. 175, passed 6-7-92) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: SIDEWALKS
Section
   
92.01   Obstructions
Cross-reference:
   Abatement of public nuisances, see §§
10.45 et seq.
   Administrative procedures and penalties, see §§
10.30 et seq.
§ 92.01 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   Every owner or occupant of lands and premises within the corporate
limits of the city, having on the property so owned or occupied by him or her,
shade trees adjacent to or in proximity of sidewalks in the city, shall trim or
cause to be trimmed, the branches overhanging or extending over side walks
shall be less than eight feet above the sidewalk.
   (B)   Every owner or occupant of lands and premises within the corporate
lands and premises within the corporate limits of the city shall trim or remove
or cause to be trimmed or removed all bushes and shrubbery so that no part
thereof shall extend over, on or above the sidewalk along the premises.
(Ord. 51, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: FIRE LIMITS; PREVENTION
[Reserved for Future Use]
CHAPTER 94: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Non-domestic animals
   
94.03   Farm animals
   
94.04   Violation
Licensing Provisions
   
94.15   License required
   
94.16   Application
   
94.17   Fee
   
94.18   Term
   
94.19   Dogs and cats not requiring licenses
   
94.20   Revocation of license or permit
General Conditions
   
94.30   Tag and collar
   
94.31   Restraint of dogs
   
94.32   Confinement of certain animals
   
94.33   Animals as nuisance
   
94.34   Impoundment
   
94.35   Rabies; violation
   
94.36   Number of animals restricted
Chickens
   
94.50   Chickens permitted
   
94.51   Definitions
   
94.52   Permit
   
94.53   Confinement
   
94.54   Chicken coops and chicken runs
   
94.55   Conditions and inspections
   
94.56   Private restrictions and covenants on property
   
94.57   Refusal to grant or renew permit
   
94.58   Application
   
94.59   Removal of chicken coop and chicken run
   
94.60   Prohibited
   
94.61   Violations a misdemeanor
Cross-reference:
   Abatement of public nuisances, see §§
10.45 et seq.
   Administrative procedures and penalties, see §§
10.30 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. A dog shall be termed at large when it is not under restraint, as
defined herein.
   FARM ANIMALS. Those animals commonly associated with a farm or performing
work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, farm animals shall
include members of the equestrian family (horses, mules), bovine family (cows,
bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (ducks, geese), swine
(including Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees, and other animals
associated with a farm, ranch, or stable.
   HARBORER. Any person who has custody of any dog or cat or permits a dog or
cat to be kept or to stay on or about the harborer's premises.
   LICENSED VETERINARIAN. A person or persons licensed by the state and/or
owning or conducting a veterinarian practice within the city limits.
   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly considered to be naturally wild
and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly considered to
be inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of people. Unless
otherwise defined, non-domestic animals shall include:
      (1)   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats.
      (2)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs.
      (3)   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog,
unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet.
      (4)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not descented), raccoon, squirrel, or ferret, but excluding those
members otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets.
      (5)   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting, or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators.
      (6)   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but which can
be reasonably defined by the terms of this section, including but not limited
to bears, deer, monkeys and game fish.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons or legal entity owning, keeping or
harboring a dog or dogs, cat or cats.
   POLICE. The police officers of the city, or any person, firm or agency hired
or engaged by the city to assist the police in the performance of their duties.
   RESTRAINT. A dog is under restraint if it is controlled by a leash not
exceeding eight feet in length; or if it is under the voice of signal command
of a competent person, providing that the dog will immediately respond to and
obey the voice or signal commands of the person or if it is within the
boundaries of the owner's or harborer's premises.
(Ord. 183, passed - -; Am. Ord. 185, passed 3-1-99)
§ 94.02 NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   It shall be illegal for any person to own, possess, harbor, or offer for
sale, any non-domestic animal within the city. Any owner of a non-domestic
animal at the time of adoption of this code shall have 30 days in which to
remove the animal from the city after which time the city may impound the
animal as provided for in this section. An exception shall be made to this
prohibition for animals specifically trained for and actually providing
assistance to the handicapped or disabled, and for those animals brought into
the city as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research
laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 FARM ANIMALS.
   Farm animals shall only be kept in an agricultural district of the city, or
on a residential lot of at least ten acres in size provided that no animal
shelter shall be within 300 feet of an adjoining piece of property. An
exception shall be made to this section for those animals brought into the city
as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research
laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
Cross-reference:
   Chickens, see also §§
94.50, et seq.
§ 94.04 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Violations of this chapter within any 12-month period shall be
punishable by a fine and/or jail time.
   (B)   If the violation is for an animal at large contrary to §
94.31, the animal, which is deemed to be personal property, shall be forfeited
to the city and it may be destroyed or euthanized with the cost to be assessed
to the owner.
   (C)   §
94.15 shall not apply to any veterinary medicine practice within the city when
the practice is owned and operated by a licensed veterinarian(s)
(Ord. 183, passed - -; Am. Ord. 185, passed 3-1-99)
LICENSING PROVISIONS
§ 94.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall own, keep or harbor a dog or cat unless the dog or cat is
licensed, as provided herein.
(Ord. 183, passed - -; Am. Ord. 185, passed 3-1-99) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.16 APPLICATION.
   Written application shall be made, in writing, at the office of the Clerk-
Administrator- Treasurer. The application shall state the name and address of
the owner of the dog or cat, the name, breed, age, sex, and color of the dog or
cat, and be accompanied by a certificate of vaccination from a qualified source
certifying that the dog or cat has been vaccinated against rabies, or has
received a booster shot therefore, within the 24-month period immediately
preceding the application.
(Ord. 183, passed - -; Am. Ord. 185, passed 3-1-99)
§ 94.17 FEE.
   The annual license fee shall be established by the City Council in January
of each year for the following year for each dog or cat. The license fee shall
be paid at the time of making the application. The initial fee shall be $5 for
each dog or cat.
(Ord. 183, passed - -; Am. Ord. 185, passed 3-1-99)
§ 94.18 TERM.
   (A)   All dog or cat licenses shall be issued for one year beginning with
January 1 of each year.
   (B)   Application for license may be made 30 days prior to January 1 each
year.
   (C)   A permit must be obtained within 30 days for any dog or cat brought
into and kept in the city after June 1 of each year.
(Ord. 183, passed - -; Am. Ord. 185, passed 3-1-99)
§ 94.19 DOGS AND CATS NOT REQUIRING LICENSES.
   No license shall be required of dogs and cats less than six months of age.
(Ord. 183, passed - -; Am. Ord. 185, passed 3-1-99)
§ 94.20 REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   The failure of any owner to comply with the requirements of this chapter
shall constitute grounds for the immediate revocation of any license or permit
issued under this chapter.
(Ord. 183, passed - -; Am. Ord. 185, passed 3-1-99)
GENERAL CONDITIONS
§ 94.30 TAG AND COLLAR.
   All dogs and cats shall be harnessed or collared. The Clerk-Administrator-
Treasurer shall upon issuance of a license provide the applicant with a
metallic tag which shall be dated and numbered and which shall be securely
fastened to the animal’s collar or harness at all times. Every application for
a license shall be accompanied by a certificate from a qualified veterinarian
showing that the dog had been vaccinated for rabies within two years prior to
the expiration of the license applied for.
(Ord. 183, passed - -; Am. Ord. 185, passed 3-1-99) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.31 RESTRAINT OF DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for the dog or cat of any person who owns, harbors, or
keeps a dog or cat, to run at large. A person, who owns, harbors, or keeps a
dog or cat which runs at large shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. All dogs shall
be under restraint at all times.
(Ord. 183, passed - -; Am. Ord. 185, passed 3-1-99) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.32 CONFINEMENT OF CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   (A)   Dangerous animals.
      (1)   Attack by an animal. It shall be unlawful for any person's animal
to inflict or attempt to inflict bodily injury to any person or other animal
whether or not the owner is present. This section shall not apply to an attack
by a dog under the control of an on-duty law enforcement officer or to an
attack upon an uninvited intruder who has entered the owner’s home with
criminal intent.
      (2)   Destruction of dangerous animal. The Animal Control Officer shall
have the authority to order the destruction of dangerous animals in accordance
with the terms established by this chapter.
      (3)   Definitions.    For the purpose of this division, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         (a)   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:
            1.   Caused bodily injury or disfigurement to any person on public
or private property;
            2.   Engaged in any attack on any person under circumstances which
would indicate danger to personal safety;
            3.   Exhibited unusually aggressive behavior, such as an attack on
another animal;
            4.   Bitten one or more persons on two or more occasions; or
            5.   Been found to be potentially dangerous and/or the owner has
personal knowledge of the same, the animal aggressively bites, attacks, or
endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
         (b)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL.  An animal which has:
            1.   Bitten a human or a domestic animal on public or private
property;
            2.   When unprovoked, chased or approached a person upon the
streets, sidewalks, or any public property in an apparent attitude of attack;
or
            3.   Has engaged in unprovoked attacks causing injury or otherwise
threatening the safety of humans or domestic animals.
         (c)   PROPER ENCLOSURE.  Securely confined indoors or in a securely
locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and to
provide protection for the animal from the elements. A proper enclosure does
not include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure
that would allow the animal to exit of its own volition, or any house or
structure in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the
only barriers which prevent the animal from exiting. The enclosure shall not
allow the egress of the animal in any manner without human assistance. A pen or
kennel shall meet the following minimum specifications:
            1.   Have a minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet.
            2.   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support posts shall be 1¼-inch or larger steel pipe buried in the
ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided, the sidewalls
shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground.
            3.   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and shall also have no openings in the wire greater than two inches.
            4.   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire
greater than two inches. The gate shall be equipped with a device capable of
being locked and shall be locked at all times when the animal is in the pen or
kennel.
         (d)   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the animal is not purposely
excited, stimulated, agitated or disturbed.
      (4)   Designation as potentially dangerous animal. The Animal Control
Officer shall designate any animal as a potentially dangerous animal upon
receiving evidence that the potentially dangerous animal has, when unprovoked,
then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or a domestic
animal as stated in subsection (3)(b). When an animal is declared potentially
dangerous, the Animal Control Officer shall cause one owner of the potentially
dangerous animal to be notified in writing that the animal is potentially
dangerous.
      (5)   Evidence justifying designation. The Animal Control Officer shall
have the authority to designate any animal as a dangerous animal upon receiving
evidence of the following:
         (a)   That the animal has, when unprovoked, bitten, attacked, or
threatened the safety of a person or domestic animal as stated in subsection
(3)(a).
         (b)   That the animal has been declared potentially dangerous and the
animal has then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or
domestic animal as stated in division (C)(1).
      (6)   Authority to order destruction. The Animal Control Officer, upon
finding that an animal is dangerous hereunder, is authorized to order, as part
of the disposition of the case, that the animal be destroyed based on a written
order containing one or more of the following findings of fact:
         (a)   The animal is dangerous as demonstrated by a vicious attack, an
unprovoked attack, an attack without warning or multiple attacks; or
         (b)   The owner of the animal has demonstrated an inability or
unwillingness to control the animal in order to prevent injury to persons or
other animals.
      (7)   Procedure. The Animal Control Officer, after having determined that
an animal is dangerous, may proceed in the following manner: The Animal Control
Officer shall cause one owner of the animal to be notified in writing or in
person that the animal is dangerous and may order the animal seized or make
orders as deemed proper. This owner shall be notified as to dates, times,
places and parties bitten, and shall be given 14 days to appeal this order by
requesting a hearing before the City Council for a review of this
determination.
         (a)   If no appeal is filed, the Animal Control Officer shall obtain
an order or warrant authorizing the seizure and the destruction of the animal
from a court of competent jurisdiction, unless the animal is already in custody
or the owner consents to the seizure and destruction of the animal.
         (b)   If an owner requests a hearing for determination as to the
dangerous nature of the animal, the hearing shall be held before the City
Council, which shall set a date for hearing not more than three weeks after
demand for the hearing. The records of the Animal Control or City Clerk-
Administrator-Treasurer’s office shall be admissible for consideration by the
Animal Control Officer without further foundation. After considering all
evidence pertaining to the temperament of the animal, the City Council shall
make an order as it deems proper. The City Council may order that the Animal
Control Officer take the animal into custody for destruction, if the animal is
not currently in custody. If the animal is ordered into custody for
destruction, the owner shall immediately make the animal available to the
Animal Control Officer. If the owner does not immediately make the animal
available, the Animal Control Officer shall obtain an order or warrant
authorizing the seizure and the destruction of the animal from a court of
competent jurisdiction.
         (c)   No person shall harbor an animal after it has been found by to
be dangerous and ordered into custody for destruction.
      (8)   Stopping an attack. If any police officer or Animal Control Officer
is witness to an attack by an animal upon a person or another animal, the
officer may take whatever means the officer deems appropriate to bring the
attack to an end and prevent further injury to the victim.
      (9)   Notification of new address. The owner of an animal which has been
identified as dangerous or potentially dangerous shall notify the Animal
Control Officer in writing if the animal is to be relocated from its current
address or given or sold to another person. The notification shall be given in
writing at least 14 days prior to the relocation or transfer of ownership. The
notification shall include the current owner's name and address, the relocation
address, and the name of the new owner, if any.
   (B)   Dangerous animal requirements.
      (1)   Requirements. If the City Council does not order the destruction of
an animal that has been declared dangerous, the City Council may, as an
alternative, order any or all of the following:
         (a)   That the owner provide and maintain a proper enclosure for the
dangerous animal as specified in division (B)(3)(c);
         (b)   Post the front and the rear of the premises with clearly visible
warning signs, including a warning symbol to inform children, that there is a
dangerous animal on the property as specified in M.S. § 347.51, as may be
amended from time to time;
         (c)   Provide and show proof annually of public liability insurance in
the minimum amount of $300,000;
         (d)   If the animal is a dog and is outside the proper enclosure, the
dog must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or leash (not to
exceed six feet in length) and under the physical restraint of a person 16
years of age or older. The muzzle must be of a design as to prevent the dog
from biting any person or animal, but will not cause injury to the dog or
interfere with its vision or respiration;
         (e)   If the animal is a dog, it must have an easily identifiable,
standardized tag identifying the dog as dangerous affixed to its collar at all
times as specified in M.S. § 347.51, as it may be amended from time to time,
and shall have a microchip implant as provided by M.S. § 347.151, as it may be
amended from time to time;
         (f)   All animals deemed dangerous by the Animal Control Officer shall
be registered with the county in which this city is located within 14 days
after the date the animal was so deemed and provide satisfactory proof thereof
to the Animal Control Officer.
         (g)   If the animal is a dog, the dog must be licensed and up to date
on rabies vaccination. If the animal is a cat or ferret, it must be up to date
with rabies vaccination.
      (2)   Seizure. As authorized by M.S. § 347.54, as it may be amended from
time to time, the Animal Control Officer shall immediately seize any dangerous
animal if the owner does not meet each of the above requirements within 14 days
after the date notice is sent to the owner that the animal is dangerous.
Seizure may be appealed to district court by serving a summons and petition
upon the city and filing it with the district court.
      (3)   Reclaiming animals. A dangerous animal seized under division (B)
(2), may be reclaimed by the owner of the animal upon payment of impounding and
boarding fees and presenting proof to animal control that each of the
requirements under division (B)(2), is fulfilled. An animal not reclaimed under
this section within 14 days may be disposed of as provided under division (F)
(6), and the owner is liable to the city for costs incurred in confining and
impounding the animal.
      (4)   Subsequent offenses. If an owner of an animal has subsequently
violated the provisions under division (A) with the same animal, the animal
must be seized by animal control. The owner may request a hearing as defined in
division (A)(6). If the owner is found to have violated the provisions for
which the animal was seized, the Animal Control Officer shall order the animal
destroyed in a proper and humane manner and the owner shall pay the costs of
confining the animal. If the person is found not to have violated the
provisions for which the animal was seized, the owner may reclaim the animal
under the provisions of division (B)(3). If the animal is not yet reclaimed by
the owner within 14 days after the date the owner is notified that the animal
may be reclaimed, the animal may be disposed of as provided under division (A)
(6) and the owner is liable to the animal control for the costs incurred in
confining, impounding and disposing of the animal.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.33 ANIMALS AS NUISANCE.
   (A)   Habitual barking. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
harbor a dog which habitually barks or cries. Habitual barking shall be defined
as barking for repeated intervals of at least five minutes with less than one
minute of interruption. The barking must also be audible off of the owner's or
caretaker's premises.
   (B)   Damage to property. It shall be unlawful for any person's dog or other
animal to damage any lawn, garden, or other property, whether or not the owner
has knowledge of the damage.
   (C)   Cleaning up litter. The owner of any animal or person having the
custody or control of any animal shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces
of the animal and disposing of the feces in a sanitary manner whether on their
own property, on the property of others or on public property.
   (D)   Warrant required. The Animal Control Officer or police officer shall
not enter the property of the owner of an animal described in this section
unless the officer has first obtained the permission of the owner to do so or
has obtained a warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction, as provided
for in §
10.20, to search for and seize the animal.
   (E)   Other. Any animals kept contrary to this section are subject to
impoundment.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.34 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any police officer or Animal Control Officer may enter upon private property
and seize any animal with the permission of the owner of the property, if that
person is also the owner of the animal, provided that the following exist:
   (A)   There is an identified complainant other than the police officer or
Animal Control Officer making a contemporaneous complaint about the animal;
   (B)   The officer reasonably believes that the animal meets either the
barking dog criteria set out in §
94.33(A); the criteria for cruelty set out in § 91.13; or the criteria for an
at large animal set out in §
91.01;
   (C)   The officer can demonstrate that there has been at least one previous
complaint of a barking dog; inhumane treatment of the animal; or that the
animal was at large at this address on a prior date;
   (D)   The officer has made a reasonable attempt to contact the owner of the
animal and the property to be entered and those attempts have either failed or
have been ignored;
   (E)   The Animal Control Officer or police officer shall not enter the
property of the owner of an animal described in this section unless the officer
has first obtained the permission of the owner to do so or has obtained a
warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction, as provided for in §
10.20, to search for and seize the animal. If the officer has the permission of
the owner, a property manager, landlord, innkeeper, or other authorized person
to enter the property or has obtained a pass key from a property manager,
landlord, innkeeper, or other authorized person to have that key shall not be
considered unauthorized entry, and a warrant to search for and seize the animal
need not be obtained; and
   (F)   Written notice of the seizure is left in a conspicuous place if
personal contact with the owner of the animal is not possible.
   (G)   All animals conveyed to the pound shall be kept, with humane treatment
and sufficient food and water for their comfort, at least five regular business
days, unless the animal is a dangerous animal as defined under §
94.32(A) in which case it shall be kept for seven regular business days or the
times specified in §
94.32(A), and except if the animal is a cruelly-treated animal in which case it
shall be kept for ten regular business days, unless sooner reclaimed by their
owners or keepers as provided by this section. In case the owner or keeper
shall desire to reclaim the animal from the pound, the following shall be
required, unless otherwise provided for in this code or established from time
to time by resolution of the City Council:
      (1)   Payment of the release fee and receipt of a release permit as
established by ordinance .
      (2)    Payment of maintenance costs, as provided by the pound, per day or
any part of day while animal is in the pound; and
      (3)   If a dog is unlicensed, payment of a regular license fee as
established by ordinance, and valid certificate of vaccination for rabies and
distemper shots is required.
§ 94.35 RABIES; VIOLATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess or harbor a dog
within the city, if the dog has not had a vaccination for rabies within the
time required under standard veterinary practices.
   (B)   Any female dog in heat shall be kept confined indoors, or impounded
for the duration of her season (Oestrus cycle) in a commercial dog kennel, the
cost of which shall be borne by the owner.
   (C)   (1)   Whenever any dog has bitten a person, the owner or custodian of
the dog or animal, having been so notified, either orally or in writing, shall
immediately quarantine the dog or animal at the owner's home or other suitable
place of confinement, as directed by the responsible officer of the city for a
period of 14 days after the occurrence. During the quarantine period the animal
shall be securely confined in a building or in a yard enclosed by a fence so
constructed that the animal cannot escape or otherwise leave the enclosure, and
which will not permit other animals or persons to enter, for the purpose of
preventing the animal from biting or otherwise coming in contact with person or
other animals.
      (2)   Upon a reasonable suspicion that the dog may be rabid, the dog
shall be subjected to the necessary tests by a doctor of veterinary medicine
for the purpose of determining if it is infected with rabies. The confinement,
testing, treatment, in addition to all other expenses incurred as the result of
a dog biting a person shall be the expense of the owner of the animal.
(Ord. 183, passed - -; Am. Ord. 185, passed 3-1-99)
§ 94.36 NUMBER OF ANIMALS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No person(s) shall own, keep, or harbor on a single premises, whether
owned by the same person or not and for whatever purpose, more than three dogs
or cats or a combination of dogs and cats, except that a fresh litter of dogs
or cats may be kept for a period not to exceed six months.
   (B)   Exemptions. The restrictions contained in this section shall not apply
to animals at veterinary medical clinics (either for treatment or boarding) or
animals housed at the Grant County Humane Center, any properly licensed animal
shelter, or any licensed kennel.
   (C)   Grandfathering provisions. Any single premises which currently keeps
or harbors and licenses three or more dogs or cats or a combination of dogs and
cats may continue to keep such animals on a single premises until the animal’s
demise, provided that licenses are kept current. Owners, occupants and/or
residents of a single premises shall not be allowed to replace any deceased dog
or cat until they are in compliance with this section.
(Ord. passed 4-2-12; Ord. passed 2-3-20)
CHICKENS
§ 94.50 CHICKENS PERMITTED.
   It is unlawful for any person to own, control, keep, maintain or harbor
chickens on any premises within the city unless issued a permit to do so as
provided in this section. No permit shall be issued for the keeping or
harboring of more than four female chickens or hens on any premises. The
keeping of harboring of male chickens or roosters is prohibited.
(Ord. passed - -)
Cross-reference:
   Farm animals, see also §
94.03
§ 94.51 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The Elbow Lake law enforcement officer.
   AT LARGE. A chicken out of its chicken run, off the premises or not under
the custody and control of the owner.
   CHICKEN. A female chicken or hen.
   CHICKEN COOP. A structure for housing chickens made of wood or other similar
materials that provides shelter from the elements.
   CHICKEN RUN. An enclosed outside yard for keeping chickens.
   PERSON. The resident, property owner, custodian, or keeper of any chicken.
   PREMISES. Any platted lot or group of contiguous lots, parcels or tracts of
land and is located within the city with the owner occupied dwelling on it.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.52 PERMIT.
   Due date of application is by January 1 of each year. No person shall
maintain a chicken coop and/or chicken run unless granted a permit by the City
Administrator. The City Administrator is authorized to issue a maximum of eight
permits annually for the keeping of chickens. The permit shall be good for one
calendar year and subject to all the terms and conditions of this section and
any additional conditions deemed necessary by the City Council or agents to
protect the public health, safety and welfare. The necessary permit application
may be obtained from the City Administrator's Office. Included with the
completed application must be a scaled diagram that indicates the location of
any chicken coop and/or chicken run, and the approximate size and distance from
adjoining structures and property signs, the number and species of chickens to
be maintained at the premises, and a statement that the applicant/permittee
will at all times keep the chickens in accordance with this subchapter and all
the conditions prescribed by the Council or Administrator or modification
thereof. Failure to obey such conditions will constitute a violation of the
provisions of this section and grounds for cancellation of the permit. No
permit shall be issued for an incomplete application or for the keeping of
chickens on any rental premises. A permit for the keeping of chickens may be
revoked, suspended or denied by the Council or Administrator for any violation
of this section following written notice. The applicant/permittee may appeal
the revocation, suspension or denial of their permit by requesting in writing a
hearing before the City Council within seven days of the notice of revocation,
suspension or denial. The request for hearing must be either postmarked or
received in the City Administrator's Office within seven days of the date of
the notice. The City Council shall hold a hearing on the applicant/permittee's
request for hearing at the next scheduled council meeting. An annual fee will
be set by City Council. Current permit holders will have first option to renew
their permit.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.53 CONFINEMENT.
   Every person who owns, controls, keeps, maintains, or harbors chickens must
keep them confined at all times in a chicken coop and chicken run and may not
allow the chickens to run at large.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.54 CHICKEN COOPS AND CHICKEN RUNS.
   (A)   All chicken coops and chicken runs must be located within the rear
yard subject to a 20 foot setback from any adjacent property line (premises).
All chicken coops must be a minimum of four square feet per chicken in size,
must not exceed ten square feet per chicken in size and must not exceed six
feet in total height. Attached fenced-in chicken runs must not exceed 20 square
feet per chicken and fencing must not exceed six feet in total height. Chicken
runs may be enclosed with wood and/or woven wire materials, and may allow
chickens contact with the ground. Chicken feed must be kept in metal predator
proof containers. Chicken manure may be placed in yard compost piles.
   (B)   Chicken coops must either be:
      (1)   Elevated with a clear open space of at least 24 inches between the
ground surface and framing/floor of the coop; or
      (2)   The coop floor, foundation and footings must be constructed using
rodent resistant construction.
   (C)   Chicken coops are not allowed to be located in any part of a home and/
or garage but may be attached to garage or shed but not allow chickens in
building attached to;
   (D)   Chickens must be secured in a chicken coop from sunset to sunrise each
day.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.55 CONDITIONS AND INSPECTIONS.
   No person who owns, controls, keeps, maintains, or harbors chickens shall
allow the premises, whether the chickens are kept to be or remain in an
unhealthy, unsanitary or noxious condition or to allow the premises to be in
such condition that noxious odors are carried to adjacent public or private
property. Any chicken coop or chicken run authorized by permit under this
section may be inspected at any reasonable time by the Animal Control Officer,
Law Enforcement Officer or other agent of the city. A person who has been
issued a permit shall submit it for examination upon demand by the Animal
Control Officer, Law Enforcement Officer or other agent of the city. Slaughter,
butcher, and breeding of chickens on any premises within the city is
prohibited.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.56 PRIVATE RESTRICTIONS AND COVENANTS ON PROPERTY.
   Notwithstanding the issuance of a permit by the city, private restrictions
and/or covenants on the use of property shall remain enforceable and take
precedence over a permit. Private restrictions include but are not limited to
deed restrictions, condominium master deed restrictions, neighborhood
association by-laws, covenant declarations and deed restrictions. A permit
issued to a person whose premises are subject to private restrictions and/or
covenants that prohibit the keeping of chickens is void. The interpretation and
enforcement of the private restriction is the sole responsibility of the
private parties involved.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.57 REFUSAL TO GRANT OR RENEW PERMIT.
   The Animal Control Officer, City Clerk or Agent may refuse to grant or renew
a permit to keep or maintain chickens for failure to comply with the provisions
of this section:
   (A)   Submitting an inaccurate or incomplete application;
   (B)   If the conditions of the permit are not met;
   (C)   If a nuisance condition is created; or
   (D)   If the public health and safety would be unreasonable endangered by
the granting or renewing of such permit.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.58 APPLICATION.
   Upon getting an application, the City Administrator will send a notification
letter to all abutting property owner(s) which advise the abutting property
owner(s) the applicant is applying for a permit from the City of Elbow Lake for
the keeping of chickens on their premises. The abutting property owner may
object to the applicant's permit application. Any objections must be received
by the City Administrator within ten days of the mailing date of said notice.
Failure to provide written objections with good reason within those ten days
will authorize the issuance of a permit for the keeping of chickens to the
applicant at their premises.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.59 REMOVAL OF CHICKEN COOP AND CHICKEN RUN.
   Any chicken coop or chicken run constructed or maintained on any premises
shall be immediately removed from said premises after the expiration of the
permit or shall be removed within 30 days upon ceasing to use the chicken coop
and/or chicken run for the keeping of chickens. Failure to comply is a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.60 PROHIBITED.
   The keeping of any chickens, is prohibited in all business and industrial
areas.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.61 VIOLATIONS A MISDEMEANOR.
   Any person who owns, controls, keeps, maintains or harbors chickens in the
City of Elbow Lake without obtaining or maintaining a current permit or after a
permit has been suspended or revoked by Council action shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed - -)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
      
111.   TOBACCO REGULATIONS
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
114.   GAMBLING; GAMES OF SKILL
      
115.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
110.03   Licensing; exemptions
   
110.04   License ineligibility
   
110.05   License suspension and revocation
   
110.06   License transferability
   
110.07   Registration
   
110.08   Prohibited activities
   
110.09   Exclusion by placard
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise or other personnel property that the person is carrying
or otherwise transporting. The term peddler shall mean the same as the term
hawker.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership or association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships and associations, the term shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent or employee.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the city hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be counted as regular business days.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares, products,
merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she may be
carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog or by
other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later time.
The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the scope of
this provision if the actual purpose of the person's activity is to obtain or
attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the same as
the term “canvasser.”
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty store front
for the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to
sell, and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal
property and who does not remain or intend to remain in any one location for
more than 14 consecutive days.
§ 110.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of the requirements of this chapter, the terms
PEDDLER, SOLICITOR, and TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to any person
selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods, wares, products,
merchandise or other personal property to a retailer of the items being sold by
the wholesaler. The terms also shall not apply to any person who makes initial
contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to
establish a regular customer delivery route for the delivery of perishable food
and dairy products such as baked goods and milk, nor shall they apply to any
person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to the customers
on his or her established regular delivery route.
   (B)   In addition, persons conducting the type of sales commonly known as
garage sales, rummage sales, or estate sales, as well as those persons
participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea market, shall be
exempt from the definitions of PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, and TRANSIENT MERCHANTS,
as shall be anyone conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer, or
any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale. Exemption from the
definitions for the scope of this chapter shall not excuse any person from
complying with any other applicable statutory provision or local ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict
door-to-door advocacy. Persons engaging in door-to-door advocacy shall not be
required to register as solicitors under §
110.07. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and
pamphleteering as vehicles for the dissemination of religious, political and
other ideas.
§ 110.03 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as required by M.S. Ch.
329 as it may be amended from time to time, if the county issues a license for
the activity.
   (B)   City license required. Except as otherwise provided for by this
chapter, no person shall conduct business as either a peddler or a transient
merchant without first having obtained a license from the city. Solicitors need
not be licensed, but are still required to register pursuant to §
110.07.
   (C)   Application. Application for a city license to conduct business as a
peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting business. Application for a
license shall be made on a form approved by the City Council and available from
the office of the City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer. All applications shall be
signed by the applicant. All applications shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Applicant's full legal name.
      (2)   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or to
which applicant officially answers.
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, distinguishing marks and features, and the like).
      (4)   Full address of applicant's permanent residence.
      (5)   Telephone number of applicant's permanent residence.
      (6)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or agent.
      (7)   Full address of applicant's regular place of business (if any).
      (8)   Any and all business related telephone numbers of the applicant.
      (9)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license.
      (10)      Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily
license.
      (11)      The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct
business, and if the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of
days he or she will be conducting business in the city (maximum 14 consecutive
days).
      (12)      Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up business.
      (13)      A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been
convicted within the last five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor, or
misdemeanor for violation of any state or federal statute or any local
ordinance, other than traffic offenses.
      (14)      A list of the three most recent locations where the applicant
has conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant.
      (15)      Proof of any requested county license.
      (16)      Written permission of the property owner or the property
owner's agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant.
      (17)      A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided.
      (18)      All additional information deemed necessary by the City
Council.
      (19)      The applicant's driver's license number or other acceptable
form of identification.
      (20)      The license plate number, registration information and vehicle
identification number for any vehicle to be used in conjunction with the
licensed business and a description of the vehicle.
   (D)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established by ordinance.
   (E)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of
the license fee, the City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer, within two regular
business days, must determine if the application is complete. An application is
determined to be complete only if all required information is provided. If the
City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer determines that the application is
incomplete, the City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer must inform the applicant of
the required necessary information that is missing. If the application is
complete, the City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer must order any investigation,
including background checks, necessary to verify the information provided with
the application. Within ten regular business days of receiving a complete
application the City Clerk- Administrator-Treasurer must issue the license
unless there exist grounds for denying the license under §
110.04, in which case the Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer must deny the license.
If the City Clerk- Administrator-Treasurer denies the license, the applicant
must be notified in writing of the decision, the reason for denial, and of the
applicant's right to appeal the denial by requesting, within 20 days of
receiving notice of rejection, a public hearing before the City Council. The
City Council shall hear the appeal within 20 days of the date of the request.
The decision of the City Council following the public hearing can be appealed
by petitioning the Minnesota Court of Appeals for a writ of certiorari.
   (F)   Duration. An annual license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for one calendar year from the date of issue. All other licenses granted under
this chapter shall be valid only during the time period indicated on the
license.
   (G)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated, or raised on any farm.
      (2)   No license shall be required of any person going from house-to-
house, door-to- door, business-to-business, street-to-street, or other type of
place-to-place when the activity is for the purpose of exercising that person's
State or Federal Constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech, press,
religion and the like, except that this exemption may be lost if the person's
exercise of Constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity.
      (3)   Professional fund raisers working on behalf of an otherwise exempt
person or group shall not be exempt from the licensing requirements of this
chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this chapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county license.
   (B)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application.
   (C)   The conviction of the applicant within the past five years from the
date of application for any violation of any federal or state statute or
regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person's
ability to conduct the business for which the license is being sought in an
honest and legal manner. Those violations shall include but not be limited to
burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices, and
any form of actual or threatened physical harm against another person.
   (D)   The revocation within the past five years of any license issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or
transient merchant.
   (E)   The applicant is found to have a bad business reputation. Evidence of
a bad business reputation shall include, but not be limited to, the existence
of more than three complaints against the applicant with the Better Business
Bureau, the Attorney General's Office, or other similar business or consumer
rights office or agency, within the preceding 12 months, or three complaints
filed against the applicant within the preceding five years.
§ 110.05 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statements on the application
form.
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity.
      (3)   Conviction of any offense for which granting of a license could
have been denied under §
110.04.
      (4)   Violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person's authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C) of
this section, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If
no request for a hearing is received by the City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer
within ten regular business days following the service of the notice, the city
may proceed with the suspension or revocation. For the purpose of mailed
notices, service shall be considered complete as of the date the notice is
placed in the mail. If a public hearing is requested within the stated time
frame, a hearing shall be scheduled within 20 days from the date of the
request. Within three regular business days of the hearing, the City Council
shall notify the licensee of its decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person's license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) of this section.
   (F)   Appeals. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 REGISTRATION.
   All solicitors, and any person exempt from the licensing requirements of
this chapter under §
110.03, shall be required to register with the city. Persons engaging in door-
to-door advocacy shall not be required to register. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR
ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and pamphleteering as vehicles for
the dissemination of religious, political and other ideas. Registration shall
be made on the same form required for a license application, but no fee shall
be required. Immediately upon completion of the registration form, the City
Clerk-Administrator- Treasurer shall issue to the registrant a Certificate of
Registration as proof of the registration. Certificates of Registration shall
be non-transferable.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.08 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall conduct business in any of
the following manners:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any other
noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure.
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public right-of-way.
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of any individual or the general public.
   (D)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration, and
identification, when requested; or using the license or registration of another
person.
   (F)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person.
   (G)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conduct business in a manner a reasonable person would find obscene,
threatening, intimidating or abusive.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.09 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant, unless invited to do so by the
property owner or tenant, shall enter the property of another for the purpose
of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or transient merchant when the
property is marked with a sign or placard at least four inches long and four
inches wide with print of at least 48 point in size stating “No Peddlers,
Solicitors or Transient Merchants,” or “Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient
Merchants Prohibited,” or other comparable statement. No person other than the
property owner or tenant shall remove, deface or otherwise tamper with any sign
or placard under this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: TOBACCO REGULATIONS
Section
   
111.01   Adopting by reference
§ 111.01 ADOPTING BY REFERENCE.
   Tobacco regulations within the city shall be administered pursuant to the
Grant County ordinance regulating the sale of tobacco and related devices and
products within Grant County, which is adopted herein by reference. A copy of
the Grant County ordinance regulating the sale of tobacco and related devices
and products within the county, as attached to Ord. 18-01, is hereby
incorporated by reference and shall be maintained in the Office of the City
Administrator.
(Ord. 18-01passed 11-6-17)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Adoption of state law
   
112.02   City law more restrictive than state law
   
112.03   Definitions
Licensing Provisions
   
112.15   Number of licenses issued
   
112.16   Term and expiration
   
112.17   Kinds of liquor licenses
   
112.18   License fees; pro rata
   
112.19   Council discretion
   
112.20   Application; description of premises
   
112.21   Renewal
   
112.22   Transfer
   
112.23   Investigation
   
112.24   Hearing and issuance; restrictions
   
112.25   Conditions of license
   
112.26   Suspension and revocation
Conditions
   
112.40   Nudity on premises
   
112.41   Consumption in public places
   
112.42   Hours and days of sale
   
112.43   Minors on premises
   
112.44   Purchase and consumption
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Vending machines; self-service sales, see § 111.07
   Zoning, see
Ch. 153
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as they may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor are hereby adopted by reference and
are made a part of this chapter as if set out in full. It is the intention of
the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if
they had been in existence at the time this chapter is adopted.
(Ord. 189, passed 5-6-02)
§ 112.02 CITY LAW MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council reserves the authorizations of the provisions of M.S. §
340A.509, as it may be amended from time to time, to impose and has imposed in
this chapter additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic
beverages within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may
be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 189, passed 5-6-02)
§ 112.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   These definitions are in addition to the definitions contained in M.S.
§ 340A.101, as it may be amended from time to time.
      CITY. The City of Elbow Lake.
      COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Elbow Lake.
      LIQUOR. Without modification by the words “intoxicating” or “3.2% malt,”
includes both INTOXICATING LIQUOR and 3.2% MALT LIQUOR.
      RESTAURANT.
         (a)   An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises, where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a
customer orders food from printed menus and where the main food course is
served and consumed while seated at a single location.
         (b)   To be a RESTAURANT, as defined by this term in this chapter, an
establishment shall have a license from the state as required by M.S. § 157.16,
as it may be amended from time to time, and meet the definition of either a
“small establishment,” “medium establishment” or “large establishment,” as
defined in M.S. § 157.16(3)(d), as it may be amended from time to time. An
establishment which serves prepackaged food that receives heat treatment and is
served in the package or frozen pizza that is heated and served shall not be
considered to be a RESTAURANT for purposes of this chapter unless it meets the
definitions of “small establishment,” “medium establishment” or “large
establishment.”
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
(Ord. 189, passed 5-6-02)
LICENSING PROVISIONS
§ 112.15 NUMBER OF LICENSES ISSUED.
   State law establishes the maximum number of liquor licenses that a city may
issue. However, the number of combination on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor
licenses that may be granted under this chapter is limited to two. The maximum
number of licenses that may be granted hereunder excludes temporary licenses
and is limited to the above number even though a larger number of licenses may
be authorized by law or election. The Council, in its sound discretion, may
provide, by ordinance, that a larger number of licenses may be issued up to the
number of licenses authorized by M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time
to time.
(Ord. 189, passed 5-6-02; Ord. 10, passed 7-10-14)
§ 112.16 TERM AND EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year. All
licenses, except temporary licenses, shall be issued effective January 1 and
shall expire on December 31 of each year unless another date is provided by
ordinance. All licenses, except temporary licenses, issued after January 1
shall expire December 31. Temporary licenses expire according to their terms.
Consumption and display permits issued by the Commissioner of Public Safety and
the accompanying city consent to the permit shall expire on March 31 of each
year.
   (B)   Licenses issued under an ordinance or ordinances at the effective date
of this chapter shall expire on December 31, 2002.
(Ord. 189, passed 5-6-02)
§ 112.17 KINDS OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The following licenses and permits, up to the number specified in §
112.15, are authorized.
   (A)   3.2% malt liquor on-sale licenses, which may be issued only to
restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers and establishments used exclusively
for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor with the incidental sale of tobacco and soft
drinks;
   (B)   3.2% malt liquor off-sale license;
   (C)   Temporary 3.2% malt liquor licenses which may be issued only to a
club, charitable, religious or non-profit organization;
   (D)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued to the
following establishments as defined by M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and this chapter: hotels, restaurants, bowling centers,
clubs or congressionally chartered veterans organizations and exclusive liquor
stores; (Club licenses may be issued only with the approval of the Commissioner
of Public Safety. The fee for club licenses, established by the Council under §
112.18, shall not exceed the amounts provided for in M.S. § 340A.408(2)(b), as
it may be amended from time to time. The Council may, in its sound discretion,
authorize a retail on-sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the
licensed premises at a community festival held within the city under the
provisions of M.S. § 340A.404(4)(b), as it may be amended from time to time.
The Council may, in its sound discretion, authorize a retail on-sale licensee
to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at any convention,
banquet, conference, meeting or social affair conducted on the premises of a
sports, convention or cultural facility owned by the city, under the provisions
of M.S. § 340A.404(4)(a), as it may be amended from time to time; however the
licensee is prohibited from dispensing intoxicating liquor to any person
attending or participating in an amateur athletic event being held on the
premises.)
   (E)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only to a
restaurant, as defined in §
112.03, club, bowling center or hotel which has a seating capacity of at least
30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license, and which
serves liquor only in conjunction with the service of food; (The maximum fee
for this license which shall be established by the Council under the provisions
of §
112.18, shall not exceed $200 or the maximum amount provided by M.S. § 340A.504
(3)(c), as it may be amended from time to time.)
   (F)   Combination on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses;
   (G)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, temporary 3.2% malt
liquor on-sale licenses, temporary on sale wine licenses and temporary set up
licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety, which may be
issued only in connection with a social event sponsored by a club, charitable,
religious or other non-profit corporation that has existed for at least three
years; (No license shall be for longer than four consecutive days and the city
shall issue no more than 12 days worth of temporary licenses to any one
organization in one calendar year.)
   (H)   On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Safety, to restaurants that have facilities for seating at least 30 guests at
one time and meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404(5), as it may be amended from
time to time, and which meet the definition of restaurant in §
112.03 and to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet the criteria in
M.S. § 340A.401(1), as it may be amended from time to time; (The fee for an on-
sale wine license established by the Council under the provisions of §
112.18 shall not exceed one-half of the license fee charged for an on-sale
intoxicating liquor license. The holder of an on-sale wine license who also
holds an on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license is authorized to sell malt liquor
with a content over 3.2% without an additional license.)
   (I)   One day consumption and display permits with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety to a non-profit organization in conjunction with
a social activity in the city sponsored by the organization;
   (J)   Set-up licenses which must meet the same criteria as on-sale wine
licenses;
   (K)   Standalone off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued
only to exclusive liquor stores or drug stores that have an off-sale license
which was first issued on or before May 1, 1994; and
   (L)   Approval of the issuance of a consumption and display permit by the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The maximum amount of the additional fee which
may be imposed by the Council on a person who has been issued a consumption and
display permit under the provisions of §
112.18 shall not exceed $300 or the maximum amount permitted by M.S. § 340A.414
(6), as it may be amended from time to time. Consumption and display permits
shall expire on March 31 of each year.
(Ord. 189, passed 5-6-02; Ord. 10, passed 7-10-14) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.18 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by M.S. § 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for a
liquor license.
   (B)   (1)   The Council may establish from time to time by ordinance or
resolution the fee for any of the liquor licenses it is authorized to issue.
The license fee may not exceed the cost of issuing the license and other costs
directly related to the enforcement of the liquor laws and this chapter.
      (2)   No liquor license fee shall be increased without providing mailed
notice of a hearing on the proposed increase to all affected licensees at least
30 days before the hearing.
   (C)   The fee for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a quarterly basis.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (E)   No refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee shall occur.
   (F)   The initial license fees, subject to amendment by Council resolution
or ordinance, shall be $1,000 on-sale intoxicating liquor; $1,100 combination
on-sale/off-sale; $25 temporary on-sale; $25 on-sale wine; $25 set up; $25 3.2%
malt liquor on-sale and all temporary licenses.
(Ord. 189, passed 5-6-02)
§ 112.19 COUNCIL DISCRETION.
   The Council, in its sound discretion, may either grant or deny the
application for any license or for the renewal of any license. No applicant has
a right to a license under this chapter.
(Ord. 189, passed 5-6-02)
§ 112.20 APPLICATION; DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
   (A)   (1)   Form. The application for a license issued under this chapter
shall be on a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name
of the applicant, the applicant's age, representations as to the applicant's
character, with references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in that
business at that place and other information as the Council may require from
time to time. An application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall
be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall also
contain the information required in this section. The form shall be verified
and filed with the city. No person shall make a false statement in an
application. Any applicant convicted of a gross misdemeanor within five years
of the application, who does not have a good financial credit history, or is
otherwise not of good reputation, shall be denied a license.
      (2)   Financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of any license
under this chapter, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial
responsibility, as defined in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time
to time, with regard to liability under M.S. § 340A.801, as it may be amended
from time to time. This proof will be filed with the city and the Commissioner
of Public Safety. Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of financial
responsibility under this section shall conform to M.S. § 340A.409, as it may
be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which is required to be
licensed by this chapter without having on file with the city, at all times,
effective proof of financial responsibility is a cause for revocation of the
license.
   (B)   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed. The description may
not include any parking lot or sidewalk except on a temporary basis, no more
than three consecutive days, and only with prior Council approval. The
description shall contain the street address and description.
(Ord. 189, passed 5-6-02)
§ 112.21 RENEWAL.
   At least 90 days before a license issued under this ordinance is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the
Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
(Ord. 189, passed 5-6-02)
§ 112.22 TRANSFER.
   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred without the approval
of the Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee or equity of a
LLC, LLP or other business entity licensee is deemed to be a transfer of the
license and the transfer without prior Council approval is a voluntary license
termination. An application to transfer a license shall be treated the same as
an application for a new license and all of the provisions of this code
applying to applications for a license shall apply.
(Ord. 189, passed 5-6-02) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.23 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background and financial investigation. On an initial
application for a license or an application for transfer of a license and, in
the sound discretion of the Council that it is in the public interest to do so,
on an application for renewal of a license, the city shall conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant or it may
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The
applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee of $500 which
shall be in addition to any license fee. If the cost of the preliminary
investigation is less than $500, the unused balance shall be returned to the
applicant. The results of the preliminary investigation shall be sent to the
Commissioner of Public Safety if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license or an on-sale wine license.
   (B) Comprehensive background and financial investigation. If the results of
a preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the Council, a
comprehensive background and financial investigation shall be conducted. The
Council may either conduct the investigation itself or contract with the
Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The investigation fee for
this comprehensive background and financial investigation to be paid by the
applicant shall be $500, less any amount paid for the initial investigation if
the investigation is to be conducted within the state, and $10,000, less any
amount paid for the initial investigation, if the investigation is required
outside the state. The unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the
applicant whether the application is approved or denied. The fee shall be paid
in advance of any investigation and the amount actually expended on the
investigation shall not be refundable in any event. The results of the
comprehensive investigation shall be sent to the Commissioner of Public Safety
if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license or an on-sale
wine license.
(Ord. 189, passed 5-6-02)
§ 112.24 HEARING AND ISSUANCE; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application and
not investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive background and financial
investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the
Council shall, in its sound discretion, grant or deny the application. No
license shall become effective until the proof of financial security has been
approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
   (B)   (1)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the
premises described in the application.
      (2)   Not more than one license shall be directly or indirectly issued
within the city to any one person.
      (3)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any
premises on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
      (4)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
      (5)   No license shall be issued to any person who is not a resident of
the state. If the applicant is a corporation or other business entity, all of
the shareholders or equity owners shall be residents of the state.
      (6)   No new license shall be granted for a premises where no license has
previously been issued within 500 feet of any school or church. The distance is
to be measured from the closest side of the school or church to the closest
side of the structure on the premises within which liquor is to be sold.
(Ord. 189, passed 5-6-02)
§ 112.25 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any one of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   Within 90 days after employment, every person selling or serving
liquor in an establishment which has an “on-sale” and/or “off-sale” license
shall receive training regarding the selling or serving of liquor to customers.
The training shall be provided by an organization approved by the Council.
Proof of training shall be provided by the licensee.
   (B)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and other applicable
law equally with the employee.
   (C)   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, city
employee or other person designated by the Council to conduct compliance checks
and to otherwise enter, inspect and search the premises of the licensee during
business hours and after business hours during the time when customers remain
on the premises without a warrant.
   (D)   No on-sale establishment shall display liquor for off sale to the
public during hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law and
of this chapter is a continuing condition of any license.
(Ord. 189, passed 5-6-02) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.26 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation or provision of this chapter relating
to liquor, as provided in division (B) below. Except in cases of lapse of proof
of financial responsibility, no suspension or revocation shall take effect
until the licensee has been afforded an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to
the Administrative Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended
from time to time. The Council may act as the hearing body under that act or it
may contract with the Office of Hearing Examiners for a hearing officer.
   (B)   The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the Council for violations of the provisions of this
chapter of M.S. § 340A, as it may be amended from time to time or any rules
promulgated under that chapter, as they may be amended from time to time.
Revocations shall occur within 60 days following a violation for which the
revocation is imposed.
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2% malt liquor or violation
of § 112.04, the license shall be revoked.
      (2)   The license shall be suspended by the Council after a finding,
under division (A) above, that the licensee has failed to comply with any
applicable statute, rule or provision of this chapter for at least the minimum
periods as follows:
         (a)   For the first violation within any three-year period, at least
one day suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
         (b)   For a second violation within any three-year period, at least
three consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (c)   For a third violation within any three-year period, at least
seven consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (d)   For a fourth violation within any three-year period, the license
shall be revoked.
      (3)   The Council shall select the day or days during which the license
will be suspended.
   (C)   (1)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect
an immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license.
      (2)   The holder of a license who has received notice of lapse of
required insurance or of suspension or revocation of a license may request a
hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing to the Clerk-
Administrator-Treasurer, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within
ten days.
      (3)   Any suspension under this division (C) shall continue until the
Council determines that the financial responsibility requirements of state law
and this chapter have again been met.
   (D)   The provisions of §
112.99 pertaining to administrative penalty may be imposed in addition to or in
lieu of any suspension or revocation under this chapter.
(Ord. 189, passed 5-6-02)
CONDITIONS
§ 112.40 NUDITY ON PREMISES.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the
public health, safety and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity
is prohibited, as provided in this section, on the premises of any
establishment licensed under this chapter.
      (2)   This is to protect and assist the owners, operations and employees
of the establishment, as well as patrons and the public in general, from harm
stemming from the physical immediacy and combination of alcohol, nudity and
sex.
      (3)   The Council especially intends to prevent any subliminal
endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to lead to the
possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution, sexual assault
and disorderly conduct.
      (4)   The Council also finds that the prohibition of nudity on the
premises of any establishment licensed under this chapter, as set forth in this
section, reflects the prevailing community standards of the city.
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts and genitals covered with a non-transparent material.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when
the person does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts and genitals
covered with a non-transparent material.
(Ord. 189, passed 5-6-02) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.41 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall consume intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor on any
public street, sidewalk, parking lot or alley or in any public place other than
on the premises of an establishment licensed under this chapter or where the
consumption and display of liquor is lawfully permitted.
(Ord. 189, passed 5-6-02) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.42 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. §
340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   No person shall consume, nor shall any on-sale licensee permit, any
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in an on-sale licensed
premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle or other container
containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor to remain upon any table,
bar, stool or other place where customers are served, more than 30 minutes
after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
(Ord. 189, passed 5-6-02) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.43 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on-sale, except that persons under the age of 18 may be employed
as musicians or to perform the duties of a bus person or dishwashing services
in places defined as a “restaurant,” “hotel,” “motel” or other “multi-purpose
building” serving food in rooms in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt
liquor are sold at retail on-sale.
(Ord. 189, passed 5-6-02) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.44 PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public
place of business unless it has a license to sell on-sale or a permit from the
Commissioner of Public Safety under the provisions of M.S. § 3401.414, as it
may be amended from time to time, which has been approved by the Council.
   (B)   No person shall consume liquor in any such place.
(Ord. 189, passed 5-6-02) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to §
10.99. Each violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   The Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for
each violation of M.S. § 340A and of this chapter, as it may be amended from
time to time, as provided by the minimum schedule of presumptive civil
penalties. These civil penalties shall be in addition to any criminal penalties
imposed under division (A) above or any suspension or revocation imposed under
§
112.26. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required in order
for the Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the Administrative
Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended from time to time,
is not required before the penalty is imposed, but the Council shall hold a
hearing on the proposed violation and the proposed penalty and hear any person
who wishes to speak. Nonpayment of the penalty is grounds for suspension or
revocation of the license.
      (2)   The following is the minimum schedule of presumptive civil
penalties in addition to any suspensions which must be imposed unless the
license is revoked:
         (a)   For the first violation within any three-year period: $500.
         (b)   For the second violation within any three-year period: $1,000.
         (c)   For the third and subsequent violations within any three-year
period: $2,000 for each violation.
   (C)   For the purpose of this penalty section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      VIOLATION. Any and all violations of the provisions of this chapter, of
M.S. § 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, or any rules promulgated
under that chapter as they may be amended from time to time. The number of
VIOLATIONS shall be determined on the basis of the history of violations for
the preceding three-year period.
(Ord. 189, passed 5-6-02)
CHAPTER 113: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Definitions
Grant of Authority
   
113.15   City authority
   
113.16   Compliance with state and federal law; codes
   
113.17   Franchise term; non-exclusivity
   
113.18   Sale or transfer
   
113.19   Access to financial records
   
113.20   Subscriber charges
   
113.21   Indemnification and liability insurance
   
113.22   Public hearing regarding city’s credentials
   
113.23   Channel capacity
   
113.24   Description of system; construction and repair
   
113.25   Relocation of wires and the like
   
113.26   Technical standards
   
113.27   Special testing
   
113.28   Non-voice return capability
   
113.29   Subscriber privacy; complaints
   
113.30   Abandonment
   
113.31   Removal of equipment; termination; forfeiture
   
113.32   Access channels
   
113.33   Program equipment
   
113.34   Operating standards
   
113.35   Pirating of signals
Administration and Enforcement
   
113.45   Policy and procedure manual
   
113.46   Franchise Administrator
   
113.47   Programming Board
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Elbow Lake, Minnesota.
   CLASS IV CHANNEL. A signaling path provided by a cable communications system
to transmit signals of any type from a subscriber terminal to another point in
the cable communication system.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FRANCHISE. This chapter.
   NON-VOICE RETURN COMMUNICATIONS. The provision of appropriate system design
techniques with the installation of cable and amplifiers suitable for the
subsequent insertion of necessary non-voice communication electronic modules.
   SYSTEM. The city cable communications system created and developed pursuant
to this chapter.
(Ord. 172, passed 4-30-90)
GRANT OF AUTHORITY
§ 113.15 CITY AUTHORITY.
   The City Council hereby ordains that the city may install, operate and
maintain a cable communications system within the city, subject to the
following terms and performance conditions.
(Ord. 172, passed 4-30-90)
§ 113.16 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL LAW; CODES.
   (A)   The city and the system shall, at all times, comply with the
provisions of M.S. Ch. 238, as from time to time amended.
   (B)   The city and the system shall conform to all laws and rules of the
state regarding cable communications no later than one year after they become
effective, unless otherwise stated, and to all federal laws and regulations
regarding cable communications as they become effective.
   (C)   (1)   All wires, conduits, cable and other property and facilities of
the city shall be located, constructed, installed and maintained in compliance
with applicable codes.
      (2)   The city shall keep and maintain all of its property so as not to
unnecessarily interfere with the usual and customary trade, traffic or travel
upon the streets and public places of the franchise area or endanger the lives
or property of any person.
(Ord. 172, passed 4-30-90)
§ 113.17 FRANCHISE TERM; NON-EXCLUSIVITY.
   (A)   The term of the franchise shall be 15 years and any renewal of the
franchise shall be for a period of not more than 15 years.
   (B)   This franchise is non-exclusive.
(Ord. 172, passed 4-30-90)
§ 113.18 SALE OR TRANSFER.
   (A)   The sale or transfer of this franchise, in whole or in part, or the
sale or transfer of system ownership so as to create a new controlling interest
in the system, is prohibited, except upon the approval of the city.
   (B)   The sale or transfer shall be completed pursuant to applicable state
law.
(Ord. 172, passed 4-30-90)
§ 113.19 ACCESS TO FINANCIAL RECORDS.
   The city shall conduct an annual audit of the system's accounting and
financial records and make available to residents of the city each year a
report of gross subscriber revenues and other information as the city deems
appropriate.
(Ord. 172, passed 4-30-90)
§ 113.20 SUBSCRIBER CHARGES.
   (A)   The city's current subscriber charges are available for inspection at
the city's offices.
   (B)   Residential subscriber contracts, if any, may not exceed 12 months in
duration unless, after 12 months, the contract may be terminated by the
subscriber at any time, at the subscriber's option, with no penalty to the
subscriber.
(Ord. 172, passed 4-30-90)
§ 113.21 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   At all times during the term of the franchise, the city shall maintain
liability insurance insuring the city in an amount which is the greater of the
liability limits required of the city under applicable state law or:
      (1)   A minimum of $100,000 for bodily injury or death to any one person
and $300,000 for bodily injury or death resulting from any one accident; and
      (2)   A minimum of $300,000 for property damage resulting from any one
accident.
   (B)   Nothing in this franchise shall relieve any person from liability
arising out of the failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid injuring the
city's facilities while performing any work connected with grading, regrading
or changing the line of any street or public place or with the construction or
reconstruction of any sewer or water system.
(Ord. 172, passed 4-30-90)
§ 113.22 PUBLIC HEARING REGARDING CITY'S CREDENTIALS.
   The city's technical ability, financial condition and legal qualifications
were considered and approved by the City Council in a full public proceeding
about which the city afforded reasonable notice and a reasonable opportunity to
be heard.
(Ord. 172, passed 4-30-90)
§ 113.23 CHANNEL CAPACITY.
   The city shall construct a cable system with a channel capacity available
for immediate or potential use equal to a minimum of 450 MHz of band width (the
equivalent of 60 television broadcast channels).
(Ord. 172, passed 4-30-90)
§ 113.24 DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEM; CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR.
   (A)   The system constructed by the city shall be a 450 MHz, 60 channel
system comprised of three-fourths inch trunk coaxial cable and one-half inch
feeder coaxial cable with approximately 9,134 feet of strand underground and
41,490 feet of strand above ground. Within 90 days of the passage of this
franchise, the city shall apply for all governmental permits, licenses,
certificates and authorizations required for the construction of the system.
Within one year of its receipt of governmental authorizations, the city shall
extend its energized trunk cable throughout the franchise area and provide
persons along the route of the energized cable with individual drops, if
desired by such persons. The requirements of this division (A) may be waived by
the city only upon the occurrence of unforeseen events or acts of God.
   (B)   (1)   The city shall, upon completion of any work requiring the
opening of any street or public place, restore the same, including the pavement
and its foundations, to as good a condition as it formerly was, and shall
exercise reasonable care to maintain the same thereafter in good condition.
      (2)   The work shall be performed with due diligence.
(Ord. 172, passed 4-30-90)
§ 113.25 RELOCATION OF WIRES AND THE LIKE.
   Whenever the city shall, during the period of this franchise, undertake any
public improvement or authorize any project or action for a public purpose
which affects the system's cable communications equipment, it shall provide for
contractor removal or replacement or for city utility crew removal or
replacement, of the city's wires, conduits, cables, vaults, pedestals, utility
holes, poles and other fixtures and property from the area affected by the
improvements or project or action for a public purpose, and shall charge
against the system account as costs for such removal or replacement the actual
bid cost for the work or the actual labor and material costs incurred by the
city utility crew.
(Ord. 172, passed 4-30-90)
§ 113.26 TECHNICAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The rules contained in Subpart K of Part 76 of the FCC's rules and
regulations relating to cable communications systems are incorporated herein by
reference.
   (B)   The results of any tests required by the FCC shall be filed with the
city within ten days of the date the tests are conducted.
(Ord. 172, passed 4-30-90)
§ 113.27 SPECIAL TESTING.
   In the event that special testing is required to determine the source of
technical difficulties, the city shall be responsible for the costs of the
special testing.
(Ord. 172, passed 4-30-90)
§ 113.28 NON-VOICE RETURN CAPABILITY.
   The city shall provide a cable communications system having the technical
capability for non-voice return communications.
(Ord. 172, passed 4-30-90)
§ 113.29 SUBSCRIBER PRIVACY; COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   (1)   No signals of a Class IV cable communications channel may be
transmitted from a subscriber terminal for purposes of monitoring individual
viewing patterns or practices without the express written permission of the
subscriber. The request for the permission shall be contained in a separate
document with a prominent statement that the subscriber is granting permission
with full knowledge of the document's provisions. The written permission shall
be for a limited period of time not to exceed one year, which period may be
renewed at the option of the subscriber. No penalty shall be invoked for a
subscriber's failure to provide or renew the authorization. The authorization
shall be revocable at any time by the subscriber without penalty of any kind
whatsoever. The permission shall be required for each type of classification of
class IV cable communications activity planned for the purpose.
      (2)   No information or data obtained by monitoring transmission of a
signal from a subscriber terminal including, without limitation, lists of the
names and addresses of the subscribers or any lists that identify the viewing
habits of subscribers shall be sold or otherwise made available to any party
other than to the city and its employees for internal business use or to the
subscriber who is the subject of that information unless the city has received
specific written authorization from the subscriber to make the data available.
      (3)   Written permission from the subscriber shall not be required in the
event the city conducts a systemwide or individually addressed electronic
sweeps for the purpose of verifying system integrity or monitoring for the
purpose of billing.
   (B)   (1)   All complaints by subscribers or other citizens regarding the
quality of service, equipment malfunction, billing disputes and other matters
relative to the system shall be investigated by the city within 24 hours. Each
complaint shall be referred to the Franchise Administrator who shall mediate
the complaint and issue a determination or appropriate recommendation to the
city and the    complainant.
      (2)   The complainant may appeal the Franchise Administrator's decision
to the City Council for final and binding resolution.
   (C)   (1)   The city shall provide, at least, a toll-free or collect
telephone number for the reception of subscriber complaints and shall maintain
a repair service capable of responding to subscriber complaints or requests for
service within 24 hours after receipt of the complaint or request.
      (2)   Whenever it is necessary to shut off or interrupt services for the
purpose of making repairs, adjustments or installations, the city shall do so
during a period of minimum use by subscribers. Unless the interruption is
unforeseen, the city shall give reasonable notice thereof to the subscribers
affected.
      (3)   Costs incurred in making repairs, adjustments and installations
shall be borne by the city unless provided for elsewhere in this franchise.
(Ord. 172, passed 4-30-90)
§ 113.30 ABANDONMENT.
   The city may not abandon any portion of the cable communications service
provided hereunder without having duly published, three months prior, notice in
a newspaper of general circulation within the city.
(Ord. 172, passed 4-30-90)
§ 113.31 REMOVAL OF EQUIPMENT; TERMINATION; FORFEITURE.
   Upon termination or forfeiture of the franchise, the city shall remove its
cable, wires and appliances from the streets, alleys and other public places
within the franchise area.
(Ord. 172, passed 4-30-90)
§ 113.32 ACCESS CHANNELS.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall provide to each of its subscribers who receive
some or all of the services offered on the system, reception on at least one
specially designated access channel. The specially designated access channel
may be used by the general public, local educational authorities and local
government on a first-come, first-serve, nondiscriminatory basis.
      (2)   Channel time and playback of prerecorded programming on this
specially designated access channel shall be provided without charge to the
general pubic; provided, however, that personnel, equipment and production
costs may be assessed for live studio presentations exceeding five minutes in
length.
      (3)   Charges for production costs shall be consistent with the goal of
affording the public a low-cost means of television access. During those hours
that the specially designated access channel is not being used by the general
public, local educational authorities or local government, the city shall lease
time to commercial or non-commercial users on a first-come, first-serve,
nondiscriminatory basis if the demand for the time arises.
      (4)   The city may also use this specially designated access channel for
local origination during those hours when the channel is not in use by the
general public, local educational authorities, local government or commercial
or noncommercial users who have leased time.
      (5)   The VHF spectrum shall be used for the specially designated access
channel required in this division (A).
   (B)   The city shall establish rules pertaining to the administration of the
specially designated access channel(s).
(Ord. 172, passed 4-30-90)
§ 113.33 PROGRAM EQUIPMENT.
   The city shall make readily available for public use, upon need being shown,
at least the minimal equipment necessary to perform good quality playback of
prerecorded programming and to make it possible to record programs at remote
locations with battery operated portable equipment. Need shall be determined by
subscriber petition. The petition must contain the signatures of at least 10%
of the subscribers of the system, but in no case more than 350, nor fewer than
100, signatures.
(Ord. 172, passed 4-30-90)
§ 113.34 OPERATING STANDARDS.
   (A)   The system shall deliver to the subscriber's terminal a signal that is
capable of producing a black and white or colored picture without visual
material degradation in quality within the limitations imposed by the technical
state of the art.
   (B)   The system shall transmit or distribute signals without causing
objectionable cross-modulation in the cables or interfering with other
electrical or electronic networks or with the reception of other television or
radio receivers in the area not connected to the network.
(Ord. 172, passed 4-30-90)
§ 113.35 PIRATING OF SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to obtain any cable television service from
the city with intent to cheat or defraud, by installing, rearranging or
tampering with the facilities or equipment, or by any trick, stratagem,
impersonation, pretension, falsification of fact or contrivance, or by any
device or means whatsoever.
(Ord. 172, passed 4-30-90) Penalty, see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 113.45 POLICY AND PROCEDURE MANUAL.
   Within six months of the adoption of these franchise provisions, the city
shall prepare and adopt a policy and procedure manual which shall set forth the
city's policies and procedures for the ongoing operation and maintenance of the
system including, without limitation, policies and procedures regarding rates
for basic and premium services, service calls, service fees, advertising and
public, educational and government access programming.
(Ord. 172, passed 4-30-90)
§ 113.46 FRANCHISE ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer shall be responsible for the ongoing
administration of this franchise.
(Ord. 172, passed 4-30-90)
§ 113.47 PROGRAMMING BOARD.
   Within 30 days of the adoption of this franchise, the City Council shall
establish an independent programming board which, during the term of the
franchise, shall make any and all decisions regarding programming to be offered
on the system. At no time during the term of the franchise shall the city
exercise any editorial control regarding the content of any programming service
offered on the system, except for programming on any channel designated for
educational or governmental use.
(Ord. 172, passed 4-30-90)
CHAPTER 114: GAMBLING; GAMES OF SKILL
Section
   
114.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
114.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
114.03   Purpose
   
114.04   Definitions
   
114.05   Applicability
   
114.06   Lawful gambling permitted
   
114.07   Council approval
   
114.08   Application and local approval of premises permits
   
114.09   Local permits
   
114.10   Revocation and suspension of local permit
   
114.11   License and permit display
   
114.12   Notification of material changes to application
   
114.13   Contribution of net profits to fund administered by city
   
114.14   Designated trade area
   
114.15   Records and reporting
   
114.16   Hours of operation
   
114.17   Severability
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 349, as they may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation, provisions
relating to sales, and all other matters pertaining to lawful gambling, are
hereby adopted by reference and are made a part of this chapter as if set out
in full. It is the intention of the Council that all future amendments of M.S.
Ch. 349 are hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if they had been in
existence at the time this chapter was adopted.
§ 114.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 349.213, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on gambling within its limits beyond those contained in
M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 114.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate lawful gambling within the city,
to prevent its commercialization, to ensure the integrity of operations, and to
provide for the use of net profits only for lawful purposes.
§ 114.04 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 349.12, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter:
   BOARD. The State of Minnesota Gambling Control Board.
   LICENSED ORGANIZATION. An organization licensed by the Board.
   LOCAL PERMIT. A permit issued by the city.
   TRADE AREA. This city and each city and township contiguous to this city.
§ 114.05 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall be construed to regulate all forms of lawful gambling
within the city except:
   (A)   Bingo conducted within a nursing home or a senior citizen housing
project or by a senior citizen organization if: the prizes for a single bingo
game do not exceed $10; total prizes awarded at a single bingo occasion do not
exceed $200; no more than two bingo occasions are held by the organization or
at the facility each week; only members of the organization or residents of the
nursing home or housing project are allowed to play in a bingo game; no
compensation is paid for any persons who conduct the bingo; and a manager is
appointed to supervise the bingo.
   (B)   Raffles, if the value of all prizes awarded by the organization in a
calendar year does not exceed $750.
§ 114.06 LAWFUL GAMBLING PERMITTED.
   Lawful gambling is permitted within the city if the Council, by resolution
adopted by a majority of its members authorizes lawful gambling to occur,
provided it is conducted in accordance with M.S. §§ 609.75 to 609.763,
inclusive, as they may be amended from time to time; M.S. §§ 349.11 to 349.23,
inclusive, as they may be amended from time to time, and this chapter.
§ 114.07 COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   Lawful gambling authorized by M.S. §§ 349.11 to 349.23, inclusive, as they
may be amended from time to time, shall not be conducted unless approved by the
Council, subject to the provisions of this chapter and state law.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.08 APPLICATION AND LOCAL APPROVAL OF PREMISES PERMITS.
   (A)   Any organization seeking to obtain a premises permit or bingo hall
license or renewal of a premises permit or bingo hall license from the Board
shall file with the City Clerk-Administrator- Treasurer an executed, complete
duplicate application together with all exhibits and documents accompanying the
application as filed with the Board. The application and accompanying exhibits
and documents shall be filed not later than three days after they have been
filed with the Board.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for issuance or renewal of a premises
permit or bingo hall license, the City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer shall
transmit the application to the Chief of Police, or the Sheriff of the county
in which this city is located, for review and recommendation.
   (C)   The Chief of Police or Sheriff shall investigate the matter and make a
review and recommendation to the City Council as soon as possible, but in no
event later than 45 days following receipt of the notification by the city.
   (D)   Organizations or bingo halls applying for a state-issued premises
permit or bingo hall license shall pay the city a $100 investigation fee. This
fee shall be refunded if the application is withdrawn before the investigation
is commenced.
   (E)   The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date on which the
Council will consider the recommendation.
   (F)   The Council shall receive the Police Chief's or Sheriff's report and
consider the application within 45 days of the date the application was
submitted to the City Clerk-Administrator- Treasurer.
   (G)   The Council shall, by resolution, approve or disapprove the
application within 60 days of receipt of the application.
   (H)   The Council shall disapprove an application for issuance or renewal of
a premises permit for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Violation by the gambling organization of any state statute, state
rule or city ordinance relating to gambling within the last three years.
      (2)   Violation by the on-sale establishment or organization leasing its
premises for gambling of any state statute, state rule or city ordinance
relating to the operation of the establishment, including, but not limited to,
laws relating to alcoholic beverages, gambling, controlled substances,
suppression of vice, and protection of public safety within the last three
years.
      (3)   Lawful gambling would be conducted at premises other than those for
which an on-sale liquor license has been issued.
      (4)   Lawful gambling would be conducted at more than         premises
within the city. Cities may use this provision to limit the number of premises
where lawful gambling may be conducted.
      (5)   An organization would be permitted to conduct lawful gambling
activities at more than one premises in the city.
      (6)   More than one licensed organization would be permitted to conduct
lawful gambling activities at one premises.
      (7)   Failure of the applicant to pay any investigation fee provided by
division (D) of this section within the prescribed time limit.
      (8)   Operation of gambling at the site would be detrimental to health,
safety, and welfare of the community.
Otherwise the Council shall pass a resolution approving the application.
§ 114.09 LOCAL PERMITS.
   (A)   No organization shall conduct lawful gambling excluded or exempted
from state licensure requirements by M.S. § 349.166, as it may be amended from
time to time, without a valid local permit. This section shall not apply to
lawful gambling exempted from local regulation by §
114.05.
   (B)   Applications for issuance or renewal of a local permit shall be on a
form prescribed by the city. The application shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name and address of the organization requesting the permit.
      (2)   Name and address of the officers and person accounting for
receipts, expenses, and profits for the event.
      (3)   Dates of gambling occasion for which permit is requested.
      (4)   Address of premises where event will occur.
      (5)   Copy of rental or leasing arrangement, if any, connected with the
event, including rental to be charged to organization.
      (6)   Estimated value of prizes to be awarded.
   (C)   The fee for a local permit shall be $100. The fee shall be submitted
with the application for a local permit. This fee shall be refunded if the
application is withdrawn before the investigation is commenced.
   (D)   Upon receipt of an application for issuance or renewal of a local
permit, the City Clerk- Administrator-Treasurer shall transmit the notification
to the Chief of Police or Sheriff for review and recommendation.
   (E)   The Chief of Police or Sheriff shall investigate the matter and make
review and recommendation to the City Council as soon as possible, but in no
event later than 45 days following receipt of the notification by the city.
   (F)   The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date on which the
Council will consider the recommendation.
   (G)   The Council shall receive the Police Chief's or Sheriff's report and
consider the application within 45 days of the date the application was
submitted to the City Clerk-Administrator- Treasurer.
   (H)   The Council shall disapprove an application for issuance or renewal of
a premises permit for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Violation by the gambling organization of any state statute, state
rule or city ordinance relating to gambling within the last three years.
      (2)   Violation by the on-sale establishment or organization leasing its
premises for gambling of any state statute, state rule or city ordinance
relating to the operation of the establishment, including, but not limited to,
laws relating to the operation of the establishment, laws relating to alcoholic
beverages, gambling, controlled substances, suppression of vice, and protection
of public safety within the last three years.
      (3)   The organization has not been in existence in the city for at least
three consecutive years prior to the date of application.
      (4)   The organization does not have at least 30 active members.
      (5)   Exempted or excluded lawful gambling will not take place at a
premises the organization owns or rents.
      (6)   Exempted or excluded lawful gambling will not be limited to a
premises for which an on-sale liquor license has been issued.
      (7)   An organization will have a permit to conduct exempted or excluded
lawful gambling activities on more than one premises in the city.
      (8)   More than one licensed, qualified organization will be conducting
exempted or excluded lawful gambling activities at any one premises.
      (9)   Failure of the applicant to pay permit fee provided by division (C)
of this section within the prescribed time limit.
      (10)   Operation of gambling at the site would be detrimental to health,
safety, and welfare of the community.
Otherwise the council shall approve the application.
   (I)   Local permits shall be valid for one year after the date of issuance
unless suspended or revoked.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.10 REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF LOCAL PERMIT.
   (A)   A local permit may be revoked or temporarily suspended for a violation
by the gambling organization of any state statute, state rule or city ordinance
relating to gambling.
   (B)   A license shall not be revoked or suspended until notice and an
opportunity for a hearing have first been given to the permitted person. The
notice shall be personally served and shall state the provision reasonably
believed to be violated. The notice shall also state that the permitted person
may demand a hearing on the matter, in which case the permit will not be
suspended until after the hearing is held. If the permitted person requests a
hearing, the Council shall hold a hearing on the matter at least one week after
the date on which the request is made. If, as a result of the hearing, the
Council finds that an ordinance violation exists, then the Council may suspend
or revoke the permit.
§ 114.11 LICENSE AND PERMIT DISPLAY.
   All permits issued under state law or this chapter shall be prominently
displayed during the permit year at the premises where gambling is conducted.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.12 NOTIFICATION OF MATERIAL CHANGES TO APPLICATION.
   An organization holding a state-issued premises permit or a local permit
shall notify the city in writing whenever any material change in the
information submitted in the application occurs within ten days of the change.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.13 CONTRIBUTION OF NET PROFITS TO FUND ADMINISTERED BY CITY.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct lawful gambling within the city
pursuant to M.S. § 349.16, as it may be amended from time to time, shall
contribute 10% of its net profits derived from lawful gambling in the city to a
fund administered and regulated by the city without cost to the fund. The city
shall disburse the funds for lawful purposes as defined by M.S. § 349.12, Subd.
25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Payment under this section shall be made on the last day of each
month.
   (C)   The city's use of these funds shall be determined at the time of
adoption of the city's annual budget or when the budget is amended.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.14 DESIGNATED TRADE AREA.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct gambling within the city shall
expend 100% of its lawful purpose expenditures on lawful purposes conducted
within the city's trade area.
   (B)   This section applies only to lawful purpose expenditures of gross
profits derived from gambling conducted at a premises within the city's
jurisdiction.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.15 RECORDS AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Organizations conducting lawful gambling shall file with the City
Clerk-Administrator- Treasurer one copy of all records and reports required to
be filed with the Board, pursuant to M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from
time to time, and rules adopted pursuant thereto, as they may be amended from
time to time. The records and reports shall be filed on or before the day they
are required to be filed with the Board.
   (B)   Organizations licensed by the Board shall file a report with the city
proving compliance with the trade area spending requirements imposed by §
114.14. Such report shall be made on a form prescribed by the city and shall be
submitted annually and in advance of application for renewal.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.16 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Lawful gambling shall not be conducted between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on
any day of the week.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.17 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter is found to be invalid for any reason by a
court of competent jurisdiction, the validity of the remaining provisions shall
not be affected.
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates:
   (A)   Any provision of this chapter;
   (B)   M.S. §§ 609.75 to 609.763, inclusive, as they may be amended from time
to time; or
   (C)   M.S. §§ 349.11 to 349.21, as they may be amended from time to time, or
any rules promulgated under those sections, as they may be amended from time to
time;
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in §
10.99
CHAPTER 115: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
115.01   Purpose
   
115.02   Findings
   
115.03   Definitions
   
115.04   Exceptions
   
115.05   License required
   
115.06   Person ineligible
   
115.07   Places ineligible
   
115.08   License application
   
115.09   Fees
   
115.10   Granting of licenses
   
115.11   Conditions of license
   
115.12   Restrictions and regulations
   
115.13   Suspensions and revocation of license
 
   
115.99   Penalty
   
Appendix:   Resolution adopting the findings of the Report of the Attorney
General's Working Group on the Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses
§ 115.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prescribe licensing requirements for
sexually oriented businesses to protect the public health, safety, and welfare
and to prevent criminal activity and the spread of sexually-transmitted
diseases.
§ 115.02 FINDINGS.
   The City Council makes the following findings regarding the effect sexually
oriented businesses have on the character of the city's neighborhoods. In
making these findings, the City Council accepts the recommendations and
conclusions of the Report of the Attorney General's Working Group on the
Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses dated June 6, 1989, which is adopted
by reference in the resolution adopting the findings of this report. This
chapter shall have no force and effect until the City Council accepts these
recommendations by resolution of a majority of its members, using the model
resolution contained in the Appendix of this chapter.
   (A)   Sexually oriented businesses can contribute to an increase in criminal
activity in the area in which such businesses are located, increasing the
demands on city crime-prevention programs and law enforcement services.
   (B)   Sexually oriented businesses can be used as fronts for prostitution
and other criminal activity. The experience of other cities indicates that
proper management and operation of such businesses can minimize this risk.
   (C)   Sexually oriented businesses can increase the risk of exposure to
communicable diseases, including Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS),
for which there is currently no cure. Experiences of other cities indicate that
such businesses can facilitate the spread of communicable diseases by virtue of
the design and use of the premises, endangering not only the patrons of such
establishments but also the general public.
   (D)   Sexually oriented businesses can cause or contribute to public health
problems by the presence of live adult entertainment in conjunction with food
and/or drink on the same premises.
   (E)   A licensing and regulatory scheme as prescribed in this chapter can
facilitate the enforcement of the city's “anti-blight” regulations, as set
forth in
Chapter 154 of this code, and can aid in monitoring sexually oriented
businesses for adverse secondary effects on the community.
   (F)   The risk of criminal activity and/or public health problems can be
minimized through a licensing and regulatory scheme as prescribed in this
chapter.
§ 115.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and terms have the following meanings when used in this
chapter.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Shall include the following:
      (1)   A business that meets any of the following criteria, measured on a
daily, weekly, monthly, or yearly basis:
         (a)   Has more than 25% of its inventory, stock-in-trade, or publicly
displayed merchandise in sexually oriented materials;
         (b)   Devotes more than 25% of its floor area (not including
storerooms, stock areas, bathrooms, basements, or any portion of the business
not open to the public) to sexually oriented materials; or
         (c)   Derives more than 25% of its gross revenues from sexually
oriented materials; or
      (2)   A business that engages for any length of time in a sexually
oriented use as defined in this section or any other use that has an emphasis
on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATERIALS. Visual, printed, or aural materials, and other
objects or devices, that:
      (1)   Contain, depict, simulate or describe specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas; or
      (2)   Are marketed for use in conjunction with, or are primarily used
only with or during specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Are designed for sexual stimulation.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE. Any of the following activities and businesses, even
if the activity exists for only a short-time:
      (1)   ADULT BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business that
provides the service of applying paint, ink, or other substance, whether
transparent or non-transparent, to the body of a patron when the person is
nude.
      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment or business used for the barter,
rental, or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures, slides,
records, audiotape, videotape, movies, or motion picture film if it meets the
criteria established in the definition of “sexually oriented business,” as
defined in this section.
      (3)   ADULT CABARET. A business or establishment that provides dancing or
other live entertainment distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on:
         (a)   The depiction of nudity, specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas; or
         (b)   The presentation, display, or depiction of matter that seeks to
evoke, arouse, or excite sexual or erotic feelings or desire.
      (4)   ADULT COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A business or establishment that
provides the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or
discussion distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (5)   ADULT CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A business or establishment that
provides the services of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or
discussion distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (6)   ADULT HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club that is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (7)   ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL. A hotel or motel that presents material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (8)   ADULT MASSAGE PARLOR/HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health club
that provides massage services distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (9)   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A business or establishment with
a capacity of less than 50 persons that, as a prevailing practice, presents on-
premises viewing of movies, motion pictures, or other material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (10)   ADULT MODELING STUDIO. A business or establishment that provides
live models who, with the intent of providing sexual stimulation or sexual
gratification, engage in specified sexual activities or display specified
anatomical areas while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn,
sculptured, photographed, or otherwise depicted.
      (11)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited where coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are used to show images
to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (12)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A motion picture theater with a
capacity of 50 or more persons that, as a prevailing practice, presents
material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons.
      (13)   ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS. An establishment or business that has a
variety of items for sale if it meets the criteria established in division (1)
of the definition of “sexually oriented business”defined in this section.
      (14)   ADULT SAUNA. A sauna that excludes minors by reason of age, and
that provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of
bathing, relaxation, or reducing, if the service provided by the sauna is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      (15)   ADULT STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or portion of a
building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation, or reducing, if the building or
portion of a building restricts minors by reason of age and if the service
provided by the steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Shall include the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
area, buttocks, anus, or female breast below a point immediately above the top
of the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a state of sexual arousal, whether or not
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Shall include the following:
      (1)   Actual or simulated: sexual intercourse; oral copulation; anal
intercourse; oral- anal copulation; bestiality; direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals; flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship; the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship; anilingus; coprophagy; coprophilia; cunnilingus; fellatio;
necrophilia; pedophilia; piquerism or zooerastia;
      (2)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal or tumescence;
      (3)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus
or masturbation;
      (4)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks, or female breasts;
      (5)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude, who
are clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes and engaged in the
flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other physical restraint of any
person;
      (6)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; or
      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation or vaginal or anal
irrigation.
§ 115.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not regulate the following:
   (A)   Material with significant literary content or social commentary;
   (B)   A business where sexually oriented materials are sold, bartered,
distributed, leased, furnished, or otherwise provided for off-site use or
entertainment, if the sexually oriented material on each item is blocked from
view by an opaque cover as required under M.S. § 617.293, as it may be amended
from time to time, and each item is in an area accessible only by an employee
of the business;
   (C)   A person or organization exempted under M.S. § 617.295, as it may be
amended from time to time;
   (D)   Activity regulated under M.S. § 617.251, as it may be amended from
time to time;
   (E)   Displaying works of art showing specified anatomical areas, so long as
no sexually oriented materials are for sale, and the business does not have a
liquor license; and
   (F)   Movies rated G, PG, PG-13, NC-17 or R.
§ 115.05 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person may own or operate a sexually oriented business within the city
unless the person is currently licensed under this chapter.
Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.06 PERSONS INELIGIBLE.
   No license may be issued to a person who:
   (A)   Is not a citizen of the United States or a resident alien;
   (B)   Is a minor at the time the application is filed;
   (C)   Has been convicted of a crime directly related to the licensed
occupation and has not shown competent evidence of sufficient rehabilitation
and present fitness to perform the duties of the owner, operator or manager of
a sexually oriented business under M.S. § 364.03, Subd. 3, as it may be amended
from time to time, or a person not of good moral character and repute;
   (D)   Holds a liquor license under
Chapter 112.
   (E)   In the judgment of the licensing authority, is not the real party in
interest or beneficial owner of the business operated under the license;
   (F)   Has had a license for a sexually oriented business or similar business
revoked anywhere within five years of the license application; or
   (G)   In the case of an individual, is not a resident of the state; in the
case of a partnership, the managing partner is not a resident of the state; or
in the case of a corporation, the manager is not a resident of the state. The
required residency must be established by the time the license is issued and
maintained throughout the existence of the license and all renewals. The time
for establishing residency may, for good cause, be extended by the licensing
authority.
Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.07 PLACES INELIGIBLE.
   No license may be issued for:
   (A)   A place or a business ineligible for a license under city ordinance or
state law;
   (B)   Operation in a zoning district where the business is not allowed
pursuant to
Chapter 154 of this code;
   (C)   A place or business that is currently licensed as a tattoo
establishment, pawnshop, massage business or establishment that sells alcoholic
beverages; or
   (D)   Operation on a premises on which taxes, assessments or other financial
claims of the city or other government agency are delinquent and unpaid, unless
the non-payment is not under the control of the applicant.
Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.08 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application for a sexually oriented business license under this
chapter must be made on a form supplied by the city and must provide the
following information:
      (1)   The business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate;
      (2)   The location of the business premises;
      (3)   The legal description of the premises to be licensed, including a
map of the area for which the license is sought, showing dimensions, locations
of buildings, street access and parking facilities;
      (4)   Whether all real estate and personal property taxes that are due
and payable for the premises to be licensed have been paid, and if not paid,
the years and amounts that are unpaid;
      (5)   Whether the applicant is the owner and operator of the business and
if not, who is;
      (6)   Whether the applicant has ever used or been known by a name other
than his or her true name, and if so, what was the name or names, and
information concerning dates and places where used;
      (7)   Whether the applicant is married or single. If married, the true
name, place and date of birth and street address of applicant's spouse;
      (8)   Street address at which the applicant and spouse have lived during
the preceding ten years;
      (9)   Kind, name and location of every business or occupation the
applicant and spouse have been engaged in during the preceding ten years;
      (10)   Names and addresses of the applicant's and spouse's employers and
partners, if any, for the preceding ten years;
      (11)   Whether the applicant or spouse has ever been convicted of a
violation of a state law or local ordinance, other than a non-alcohol related
traffic offense. If so, the applicant must furnish information as to the time,
place and offense for which convictions were had;
      (12)   Whether the applicant or spouse has ever been engaged as an
employee or in operating a sexually oriented business, massage business, or
other business of a similar nature. If so, the applicant must furnish
information as to the time, place and length of time;
      (13)   Whether the applicant has ever been in military service. If so,
the applicant must, upon request, exhibit all discharges;
      (14)   If the applicant is a partnership, the name and address of all
partners and all information concerning each partner as is required of a single
applicant as above. A managing partner or partners must be designated. The
interest of each partner or partners in the business must be submitted with the
application and, if the partnership is required to file a certificate as to
trade name under the provisions of M.S. Ch. 333, as it may be amended from time
to time, a copy of the certificate must be attached to the application;
      (15)   If the applicant is a corporation or other organization, the
applicant must submit the following:
         (a)   Name, and if incorporated, the state of incorporation;
         (b)   Names and addresses of all officers;
         (c)   The name of the manager or proprietor or other agent in charge
of, or to be in charge of the premises to be licensed, giving all information
about said person as is required in the case of a single applicant; and
         (d)   A list of all persons who, single or together with their spouse,
own or control an interest in said corporation or association in excess of 5%
or who are officers of said corporation or association, together with their
addresses and all information as is required for a single applicant.
      (16)   The amount of the investment that the applicant has in the
business, land, building, premises, fixtures, furniture or stock-in-trade, and
proof of the source of the money;
      (17)   A list of responsible persons, including the names of owners,
managers and assistant managers, who may be notified or contacted by state or
city employees in case of emergency. These persons must be residents of the
state.
      (18)   Whether the applicant holds a current license for a sexually
oriented business or similar business from another governmental unit;
      (19)   Whether the applicant has ever been denied a license for a
sexually oriented business or similar business from another governmental unit;
and
      (20)   Other information that the city deems appropriate.
   (B)   No person may make a false statement or material omission in a license
application or investigation. A false statement or material omission is grounds
for denial, suspension or revocation of a license.
   (C)   Each licensee has the continuing duty to properly notify the Director
of Community Development of a change in the information or facts required to be
furnished on the application for a license. This duty continues throughout the
period of the license. Failure to comply with this section will constitute
cause for revocation or suspension of the license.
   (D)   The application for the renewal of an existing license must be made at
least 90 days prior to the date of the expiration of the license and must be
made on the form which the city provides.
Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.09 FEES.
   (A)   An applicant for a license must pay to the city the investigation fee
specified by ordinance , as that ordinance may be amended from time to time.
This fee will be for the purpose of conducting a preliminary background and
financial investigation of the applicant. If the city believes that the public
interest so warrants, it may require a similar investigation at the time of
renewal of a license. If an investigation is ordered at the time of license
renewal, the applicant must pay the fee specified above, except that the fee
will be the smaller of the stated dollar amount or the actual cost of the
investigation. There will be no refund of the investigation fee after the
investigation has begun.
   (B)   The annual fees for a license are set forth by ordinance, as that
ordinance may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Each license expires on December 31 of the year in which it is issued.
Fees for licenses issued during the license year will be prorated according to
the number of months remaining in the year. For this purpose an unexpired
fraction of a month will be counted as a whole month having elapsed.
   (D)   No refund of a fee will be made except as authorized by ordinance.
§ 115.10 GRANTING OF LICENSES.
   (A)   No license may be issued until the Police Department, or the county
Sheriff, if the city has no Police Department, has conducted an investigation
of the representations set forth in the application, the applicant's moral
character, and the applicant's financial status. All applicants must cooperate
this investigation.
   (B)   No license, except for a renewed license, may be issued for a sexually
oriented business until the Council has held a public hearing. Notice of the
hearing must be made in the same manner as that specified in
Chapter 151 of this code, for a zoning ordinance amendment affecting district
boundaries. The Council must grant the license unless the applicant or the
location does not meet the requirements of the city code, the application was
incomplete, or the application contained false information or a material
omission. If the application is denied, the city must notify the applicant with
the reason(s) stated for denial. Notification must be sent certified, United
States mail, return receipt requested, to the address provided on the license
application. If the Council fails to act on the application within 45 days
after receipt of a complete application, the application will be deemed
approved. An applicant wishing to appeal the action of the City Council may
seek a writ of certiorari before the Minnesota Court of Appeals.
   (C)   (1)   The City Council may issue a license before an investigation,
notice and public hearing for an applicant who:
         (a)   Had a license within the previous five years for the
establishment that is specified in the application and that is continuing to
operate under a license;
         (b)   Wishes to resume operation of the business without sufficient
time, through no fault of his or her own, to meet the normal procedural
requirements;
         (c)   Had no criminal license convictions, or license suspensions or
revocations during the prior licensed period; and
         (d)   Otherwise qualifies and meets the requirements for a license.
      (2)   In this situation, the City Council may immediately issue an
interim license to the applicant for a period of no longer than 90 days. The
applicant must then proceed through the specified requirements for an
investigation, notice, and public hearing. At the public hearing the Council
will decide whether the license should continue in effect or be revoked. The
applicant has no greater right to continuation of the license than he or she
would have had to issuance of a new license following the normal procedure
without the interim license.
   (D)   A license will be issued only to the applicant and for the premises
described in the application. No license may be transferred to another person
or place without application in the same manner as an application for a new
license. Transfer of 25% or more of the stock of a corporation or of a
controlling interest of it, whichever is less, will be deemed a transfer of the
license. If the licensee is a corporation that is wholly owned by another
corporation, the same provisions about the transfer of a stock or a controlling
interest will apply to that parent corporation, any second parent corporation
that wholly owns the parent corporation, and all other similarly situated
parent corporations up through the chain of ownership. Transfer of this amount
of stock without prior Council approval is a ground for revocation or
suspension of the license. In addition, each day the licensee operates under
the license after a transfer has taken place without obtaining Council approval
will be a separate violation of this chapter.
   (E)   In the case of the death of a licensee, the personal representative of
a licensee may continue operation of the business for not more than 90 days
after the licensee's death.
§ 115.11 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license is subject to the conditions in this section, all other
provisions of this chapter, and of other applicable regulations, ordinances or
state laws.
   (B)   A licensee is responsible for the conduct of his or her place of
business and the conditions of order in it. The act of an employee of the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
is liable for all penalties provided by this chapter equally with the employee,
except criminal penalties.
   (C)   The license must be posted in a conspicuous place in the premises for
which it is used.
Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.12 RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   A sexually oriented business is subject to the following restrictions and
regulations:
   (A)   No owner, manager or employee may allow sexually oriented materials or
entertainment to be visible or perceivable in any manner, including aurally, at
any time from outside of the business.
   (B)   No owner, manager or employee may allow a person under the age of 18
to enter the business.
   (C)   No owner, manager or employee may allow a person under the age of 18
to have access to sexually oriented materials, whether by sight, purchase,
touch or other means.
   (D)   No owner or manager may employ a person under the age of 18 on the
licensed premises.
   (E)   No owner, manager, or employee may have been convicted of a sex crime,
as identified in M.S. §§ 609.293 to 609.352, 609.746 to 609.749, 609.79 or
518B.01, as they may be amended from time to time, or related statute dealing
with sexual assault, sexual conduct, harassment, obscenity, or domestic abuse
within the past five years.
   (F)   No business may exceed 10,000 square feet in gross floor area.
   (G)   No owner, manager or employee may allow a patron, employee, or other
person on the premises to physically contact, in public view, a specified
anatomical area of himself or herself or of another person, except that a live
performer may touch himself or herself.
   (H)   A live performer must remain at all times a minimum distance of ten
feet from members of the audience, and must perform on a platform intended for
that purpose, that must be raised at least two feet from the level of the floor
on which the audience is located. No performer may solicit or accept money, a
tip, or other item from a member of the audience.
   (I)   No business may have booths, stalls, partitioned portions of a room,
or individual rooms, except as follows:
      (1)   Restrooms are allowed as long as they are no larger than reasonably
necessary to serve the purposes of a restroom, no other activities are provided
or allowed in the rooms, and there are no chairs, benches, or reclining
surfaces in the rooms; and
      (2)   Storage rooms and private offices are allowed, if the storage rooms
and offices are used solely for running the business and no person other than
the owner, manager and employees is allowed in them.
   (J)   A licensee must not be open for business to the public:
      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the days of Monday through
Saturday; and
      (2)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon on Sundays.
Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.13 SUSPENSIONS AND REVOCATIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Delinquent taxes. The City Council may suspend or revoke a license
issued under this chapter for operation on a premises on which real estate
taxes, assessments or other financial claims of the city or of the state are
due, delinquent, or unpaid, unless the non-payment is not under the control of
the licensee. If an action has been commenced under M.S. Ch. 278, as it may be
amended from time to time, questioning the amount or validity of taxes, the
Council may on application by the licensee waive strict compliance with this
provision; no waiver may be granted, however, for taxes, or a portion of them,
that remain unpaid for a period exceeding one year after becoming due, unless
the one-year period is extended through no fault of the licensee.
   (B)   Violations. 
      (1)   The Council may either suspend for up to 60 days or revoke a
license for a violation upon a finding that the licensee or an agent or
employee of the licensee has failed to comply with an applicable statute,
regulation or ordinance relating to the subject matter of this chapter or
violated the statutes in division (B)(2) of this section. No suspension or
revocation will take effect until the licensee has been afforded an opportunity
for a hearing pursuant to M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.69, as they may be amended from
time to time, with the exception of the suspension provided for in division (B)
(2) of this section.
      (2)   Conviction of a sex crime, as identified in M.S. §§ 609.293 to
609.352, 609.746 to 609.749, 609.79 or 518B.01, as they may be amended from
time to time, or related statute dealing with sexual assault, sexual conduct,
harassment, obscenity or domestic abuse by the licensee will result in the
immediate suspension pending a hearing on revocation of a license issued under
this chapter.
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Except as otherwise provided by state law, a person violating a provision of
this chapter is subject to the penalties established in §
10.99. A fine or sentence imposed does not affect the right of the city to
suspend or revoke the license of the licensee as the Council deems appropriate.
APPENDIX I
RESOLUTION ADOPTING THE FINDINGS OF THE REPORT OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S
WORKING GROUP ON THE REGULATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
   WHEREAS because of its small size, the city lacks the resources to
investigate and research the impact sexually oriented businesses would have on
the character of the city's neighborhoods; and
   WHEREAS the city intends to rely on the Report of the Attorney General's
Working Group on the Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses, dated June 6,
1989, as a basis for regulating sexually oriented businesses in this city; and
   WHEREAS the members of the City Council have reviewed this Report;
   NOW THEREFORE, the City Council of this City hereby accepts the
recommendations and conclusions of this Report and adopts the recommendations
and conclusions by reference of the Report of the Attorney General's Working
Group on the Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses, dated June 6, 1989;
and by passage of this resolution implements the provisions of
Chapters 115 and
154.
Signed:                                                 
      Mayor
Attest:                                                    
      City Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Curfew
   
130.02   Discharging firearms
   
130.03   Fireworks
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   Purpose. The curfew for minors established by this section is
maintained for four primary reasons:
      (1)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during
the curfew hours;
      (2)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
      (3)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the
curfew hours; and
      (4)   To help parents control their minor children.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor's household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or fire department
personnel and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
      OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference to the
master clock of the police dispatcher.
      PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT OR REFRESHMENT. Those places that
include, but are not limited to movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants and pool halls.
      PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for
providing food, clothing, shelter and other basic necessities to the minor. The
person providing PRIMARY CARE OR CUSTODY to the minor shall not be another
minor.
      SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
   (C)   Hours. No minor under the age of 16 years shall be in or upon the
public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, public
places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of amusement, entertainment or
refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
5:00 a.m. the following day, official city time.
(Ord. 121, passed 1-6-69)
   (D)   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to give a minor the right to stay out until the
curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by a parent,
guardian or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the
minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or impair the control of
the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following situations:
      (1)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor;
      (2)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his
or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the primary care and
custody of the minor;
      (3)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business trade, profession or occupation and the minor's
residence; (Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor's presence at work.)
      (4)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from
an event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, school, religious institution or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor's
parent, guardian or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor;
      (5)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of
interstate travel during the hours of curfew;
      (6)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly or freedom of religion;
      (7)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
city's designated law enforcement provider about the minor's presence; and
      (8)   To a minor who is married or has been married or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
   (F)   Duties of person legally responsible for minor. No parent, guardian or
other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall permit any
violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.
   (G)   Duties of other persons. No person operating or in charge of any place
of amusement, entertainment or refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or
remain in his or her place of business during the hours prohibited by this
section unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other
adult person having primary care or custody of the minor or unless one of the
exceptions to this section apply.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (A)   Shooting upon, over or near a cemetery. No person shall, without
permission from the proper officials, discharge a firearm upon or over a
cemetery or within 100 yards thereof, unless the person is upon his or her own
land.
   (B)   Hunting near a city park. No person shall hunt, shoot, or kill game
within ½ mile of a city park unless the City Council has granted permission to
kill game not desired within the limits prohibited by this division.
   (C)   Discharge of firearms prohibited in certain places. No person shall
discharge a firearm on a lawn, park, playground, orchard, or other ground
appurtenant to a school, church, or an inhabited dwelling, the property of
another, or a charitable institution. This section does not prevent or prohibit
the owner thereof from discharging firearms upon his or her own land.
   (D)   Discharging firearms on highways prohibited. No person shall discharge
a firearm upon or over a public road or highway.
   (E)   Exceptions. This section shall not prohibit the firing of a military
salute or the firing of weapons by persons of the nation's armed forces acting
under military authority, and shall not apply to law enforcement officials in
the proper enforcement of the law, or to any person in the proper exercise of
the right of self defense, or to any person otherwise lawfully permitted by
proper federal, state or local authorities to discharge a firearm in a manner
contrary to the provisions of this section.
   (F)   If any of the above provisions are found to be in conflict with M.S. §
624.717, as it may be amended from time to time, the provisions of that statute
shall prevail.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The use, display, possession, discharge or sale of any fireworks not
expressly permitted by M.S. § 624.20, Subd. 1(c), as it may be amended from
time to time, is strictly prohibited.
   (B)   All use, display or discharge of those non-explosive, non-aerial
pyrotechnic entertainment devices only containing the limited amounts of
pyrotechnic chemical compositions described in and permitted by M.S. § 624.20,
Subd. 1(c), as it may be amended from time to time, hereinafter referred to as
“permitted consumer fireworks”, is strictly prohibited in:
      (1)   The area on, below, above or within or in close proximity to:
recreational areas, roadways, streets, highways, bicycle lanes, pedestrian
paths, sidewalks, rights-of-way, lakes, rivers, waterways and all other
property owned or leased by the city, the county in which the city is located,
the State of Minnesota or the federal government and located in whole or in
part within the city limits;
      (2)   Private property within the city limits that has conspicuously
posted a written sign or notice that no fireworks discharge is allowed;
      (3)   Within 300 feet of any consumer fireworks retail sales facility or
storage area that has posted a written sign or notice that no fireworks
discharge is allowed; and
      (4)   Any property, area, or structure that, by its physical condition or
the physical conditions in which it is set, would constitute a fire or personal
safety hazard.
   (C)   All other use, display or discharge of permitted consumer fireworks
must be conducted in a manner that minimizes the risk of fire or injury to
other persons or property.
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Minors. Any minor found to be in violation of §
130.01 may be adjudicated delinquent and shall be subject to the dispositional
alternatives set forth in M.S. § 260.185, as it may be amended from time to
time.
      (2)   Adults. Any adult person found to be in violation of §
130.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be sentenced up to the maximum
penalty authorized by state law for a misdemeanor.
      (3)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under §
130.01 that the owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly
notified the city's designated law enforcement provider that a minor was
present on the premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to
leave.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   SHORELAND MANAGEMENT
      
152.   ELBOW LAKE MUNICIPAL AIRPORT AND HELIPORT ZONING ORDINANCE
      
153.   ZONING
      
154.   ANTI-BLIGHT REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
150.01   Overhangs, signs and pillars
   
150.02   Moving buildings
Cross-reference:
   Fire Limits; Prevention, see
Ch. 93
§ 150.01 OVERHANGS, SIGNS AND PILLARS.
   (A)   The construction of overhangs, the hanging of signs and the placing of
pillars or other construction over or on sidewalks and other public property in
the city shall be permitted; provided, however, that the construction and
hanging be first approved by the Planning Commission and the City Council.
   (B)   If permission is granted, as provided in division (A) above, then the
owner of the adjoining premises upon which the items are attached shall assume
all liability for any and all claims of any and all kinds whatsoever arising
from the items and shall hold the city harmless in the event any claim of any
kind is presented against the city because of the items and this provision
shall be a covenant running with the land so as to bind all future owners of
the premises.
   (C)   All items described in divisions (A) and (B) above, which are in place
at the time of the passage of this section, shall be deemed to have been
permitted by the Planning Commission and City Council; provided, however, that
if they are continued after the passage of this section, then the owner of the
premises to which they are attached, shall be deemed to have accepted the
conditions set forth in division (B) above.
(Ord. 145, passed 5-3-76) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.02 MOVING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No building or structure of any type shall be moved into, out of or
within the city before the owner thereof shall have first secured a permit
therefor, as provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   The permit set forth in division (A) above shall be applied for in
writing by the owner of the building or structure sought to be moved, which the
application shall set forth in detail a description of the building or
structure to be moved, the location it is to be moved from and to, the date or
dates upon which the mowing operations will take place, the route over which it
is to be moved, the manner in which it is to be moved and the reasons for the
moving. This application shall be presented to the City Council, in regular
meeting assembled, and if the permit is granted, it shall be upon the terms and
conditions, as to them, seems for the best interests of the welfare, safety and
health of the community.
   (C)   This section is declared to be a health and safety measure.
(Ord. 97, passed 4-3-61) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 151: SHORELAND MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Policy
   
151.03   Jurisdiction
   
151.04   Compliance
   
151.05   Enforcement
   
151.06   Interpretation
   
151.07   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.08   Definitions
   
151.09   Administration
Classification and Land Use Districts
   
151.20   Classification system
   
151.21   District descriptions
Zoning and Water Supply/Sanitary Provisions
   
151.35   Lot area and width standards
   
151.36   Placement, design and height of structures
   
151.37   Shoreland alterations
   
151.38   Placement and design of roads and the like
   
151.39   Stormwater management
   
151.40   Commercial, industrial and the like; extractive uses and mining
   
151.41   Conditional uses
   
151.42   Water supply; sewage treatment
Nonconformities
   
151.55   General
   
151.56   Construction on lots of record
   
151.57   Additions or expansions to structures
   
151.58   Sewage treatment systems
Subdivision/Platting Provisions
   
151.70   Land suitability
   
151.71   Consistency with other controls
   
151.72   Information requirements
   
151.73   Dedications
   
151.74   Platting
   
151.75   Controlled access or recreational lots
Planned Unit Developments
   
151.85   Types permissible
   
151.86   Processing
   
151.87   Application
   
151.88   Site “suitable area” evaluation
   
151.89   Residential and commercial density evaluation
   
151.90   Maintenance and design criteria
   
151.91   Conversion
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authorization and policies contained
in M.S. Ch. 105, Minn. Rules parts 6120.2500 through 6120.3900, as they may be
amended from time to time, and the planning and zoning enabling legislation in
M.S. Ch. 462, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.02 POLICY.
   The uncontrolled use of shorelands of the city affects the public health,
safety and genera welfare not only by contributing to pollution of public
waters, but also by impairing the local tax base. Therefore, it is in the best
interests of the public health, safety and welfare to provide for the wise
subdivision, use and development of shorelands of public waters. The
Legislature of Minnesota has delegated responsibility to local governments of
the state to regulate the subdivision, use and development of the shorelands of
public waters and thus preserve and enhance the quality of surface waters,
conserve the economic and natural environmental values of shorelands and
provide for the wise use of waters and related land resources. This
responsibility is hereby recognized by the city.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.03 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the shorelands of the public
water bodies, as classified in §§
151.20 and
151.21. Pursuant to Minn. Rules parts 6120.2500 through 6120.3900, as they may
be amended from time to time, no lake, pond, or flowage less than ten acres in
size in municipalities or 25 acres in size in unincorporated areas need be
regulated in a local government’s shoreland regulations. A body of water
created by a private user where there was no previous shoreland may, at the
discretion of the governing body, be exempt from this chapter.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.04 COMPLIANCE.
   The use of any shoreland of public waters; the size and shape of lots; the
use, size, type and location of structures on lots; the installation and
maintenance of water supply and waste treatment systems, the grading and
filling of any shoreland area; the cutting of shoreland vegetation; and the
subdivision of land shall be in full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   The city is responsible for the administration and enforcement of this
chapter. Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of its requirements, including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or conditional uses, shall
constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as defined by law. Violations
of this chapter can occur regardless of whether or not a permit is required for
a regulated activity pursuant to §
151.09(A).
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.06 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.07 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter
imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail.
   (B)   All other ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby
repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.08 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   All distances, unless otherwise specified, shall be measured
horizontally.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR FACILITY. Any building or improvement subordinate
to a principal use which, because of the nature of its use, can reasonably be
located at or greater than normal structure setbacks.
      BLUFF. A topographic feature such as a hill, cliff or embankment having
the following characteristics (an area with an average slope of less than 18%
over a distance for 50 feet or more shall not be considered part of the bluff):
         (a)   Part or all of the feature is located in a shoreland area;
         (b)   The slope rises at least 25 feet above the ordinary high water
level of the waterbody;
         (c)   The grade of the slope from the toe of the bluff to a point 25
feet or more above the ordinary high water level averages 30% or greater; and
         (d)   The slope must drain toward the waterbody.
      BLUFF IMPACT ZONE. A bluff and land located within 20 feet from the top
of a bluff.
      BOATHOUSE. A structure designed and used solely for the storage of boats
or boating equipment.
      BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to a lot line or the ordinary high water
level at the required setback beyond which a structure may not extend.
      COMMERCIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS. Uses that provide transient, short-
term lodging spaces, rooms or parcels and their operations are essentially
service-oriented. For example, hotel/motel accommodations, resorts,
recreational vehicle and camping parks and other primarily service-oriented
activities are COMMERCIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
      COMMERCIAL USE. The principal use of land or buildings for the sale,
lease, rental or trade of products, goods and services.
      COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources.
      CONDITIONAL USE. A land use or development, as defined hereby, that would
not be appropriate generally, but may be allowed with appropriate restrictions
as provided by official controls upon a finding that certain conditions, as
detailed in Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances, exist, the use or
development conforms to the comprehensive land use plan of the community and
the use is compatible with the existing neighborhood.
      DECK. A horizontal, unenclosed platform with or without attached
railings, seats, trellises or other features, attached or functionally related
to a principal use or site and at any point extending more than three feet
above ground.
      DUPLEX, TRIPLEX and QUAD. A dwelling, structure on a single lot, having
two, three and four units, respectively, being attached by common walls and
each unit equipped with separate sleeping, cooking, eating, living and
sanitation facilities.
      DWELLING SITE. A designated location for residential use by one or more
persons using temporary or movable shelter, including camping and recreational
vehicle sites.
      DWELLING UNIT. Any structure or portion of a structure or other shelter
designed as short- or long-term living quarters for one or more persons,
including rental or timeshare accommodations such as motel, hotel and resort
rooms and cabins.
      EXTRACTIVE USE. The use of land for surface or subsurface removal of
sand, gravel, rock, industrial minerals, other nonmetallic minerals and peat
not regulated under M.S. §§ 93.44 to 93.51, as it may be amended from time to
time.
      FOREST LAND CONVERSION. The clear cutting of forested lands to prepare
for a new land use other than reestablishment of a subsequent forest stand.
      GUEST COTTAGE. A structure used as a dwelling unit that may contain
sleeping spaces and kitchen and bathroom facilities in addition to those
provided in the primary dwelling unit on a lot.
      HARDSHIP. The same as that term is defined in M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 6, as
it may be amended from time to time.
      HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance between the highest adjoining
ground level at the building or ten feet above the lowest ground level,
whichever is lower, and the highest point of a flat root or average height of
the highest gable of a pitched or hipped roof.
      INDUSTRIAL USE. The use of land or buildings for the production,
manufacture, warehousing, storage or transfer of goods, products, commodities
or other wholesale items.
      INTENSIVE VEGETATION CLEARING. The complete removal of trees or shrubs in
a contiguous patch, strip, row or block.
      LOT. A parcel of land designated by plat, metes and bounds, registered
land survey, auditors plot or other accepted means and separated from other
parcels or portions by the description for the purpose of sale, lease or
separation.
      LOT WIDTH. The shortest distance between lot lines measured at the
midpoint of the building line.
      NONCONFORMITY. Any legal use, structure or parcel of land already in
existence, recorded or authorized before the adoption of official controls or
amendments thereto that would not have been permitted to become established
under the terms of the official controls as now written, if the official
controls had been in effect prior to the date it was established, recorded or
authorized.
      ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL. The boundary of public waters and wetlands and
shall be an elevation delineating the highest water level which has been
maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape, commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from
predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial. For watercourses, the
ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is the elevation of the top of the bank of the
channel. For reservoirs and flowages, the ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is the
operating elevation of the normal summer pool.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A type of development characterized by a
unified site design for a number of dwelling units or dwelling sites on a
parcel, whether for sale, rent or lease and also usually involving clustering
of these units or sites to provide areas of common open space, density
increases and a mix of structure types and land uses. These developments may be
organized and operated as condominiums, time-share condominiums, cooperatives,
full fee ownership, commercial enterprises or any combination of these or
cluster subdivisions of dwelling units, residential condominiums, townhouses,
apartment buildings, campgrounds, recreational vehicle parks, resorts, hotels,
motels and conversions of structures and land uses to these uses.
      PUBLIC WATERS. Any waters, as defined in M.S. § 105.37(14) and (15), as
it may be amended from time to time.
      RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A use where the nature of residency
is non-transient and the main or primary focus of the development is not
service-oriented. For example, residential apartments, manufactured home parks,
time-share condominiums, townhouses, cooperatives and full fee ownership
residences would be considered as RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS. To
qualify as a RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT, a development must contain
at least five dwelling units or sites.
      SEMIPUBLIC USE. The use of land by a private, non-profit organization to
provide a public service that is ordinarily open to some persons outside the
regular constituency of the organization.
      SENSITIVE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT. The preservation and management of areas
unsuitable for development in their natural state due to constraints such as
shallow soils over groundwater or bedrock, highly erosive or expansive soils,
steep slopes, susceptibility to flooding or occurrence of flora or fauna in
need of special protection.
      SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure, sewage
treatment system or other facility and an ordinary high water level, sewage
treatment system, top of a bluff, road, highway, property line or other
facility.
      SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM. A septic tank and soil absorption system or
other individual or cluster type sewage treatment system as described and
regulated in §
151.42.
      SEWER SYSTEM. Pipelines or conduits, pumping stations and force main and
all other construction, devices, appliances or appurtenances used for
conducting sewage or industrial waste or other wastes to a point of ultimate
disposal.
      SHORE IMPACT ZONE. Land located between the ordinary high water level of
a public water and a line parallel to it at a setback of 50% of the structure
setback.
      SHORELAND. Land located within the following distances from public
waters: 1,000 feet from the ordinary high water level of a lake, pond or
flowage; and 300 feet from a river or stream, or the landward extent of a
floodplain designated by ordinance on a river or stream, whichever is greater.
The limits of shorelands may be reduced whenever the waters involved are
bounded by topographic divides which extend landward from the waters for lesser
distances and when approved by the Commissioner.
      SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC SITE. Any archaeological site, standing structure or
other property that meets the criteria for eligibility to the National Register
of Historic Places or is listed in the State Register of Historic Sites, or is
determined to be an unplatted cemetery that falls under the provisions of M.S.
§ 7.08, as it may be amended from time to time. A HISTORIC SITE meets these
criteria if it is presently listed on either register or if it is determined to
meet the qualifications for listing after review by the State Archaeologist or
the Director of the Minnesota Historical Society. All unplatted cemeteries are
automatically considered to be SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC SITES.
      STEEP SLOPE. Land where agricultural activity or development is either
not recommended or described as poorly suited due to slope steepness and the
site's soil characteristics, as mapped and described in available county soil
surveys or other technical reports unless appropriate design and construction
techniques and farming practices are used in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. Where specific information is not available, STEEP SLOPES are
lands having average slopes over 12%, as measured over horizontal distances of
50 feet or more, that are not bluffs.
      STRUCTURE. Any building or appurtenance, including decks, except aerial
or underground utility lines, such as sewer, electric, telephone, telegraph,
gas lines, towers, poles and other supporting facilities.
      SUBDIVISION. Land that is divided for the purpose of sale, rent or lease,
including planned unit developments.
      SURFACE WATER-ORIENTED COMMERCIAL USE. The use of land for commercial
purposes, where access to and use of a surface water feature is an integral
part of the normal conductance of business. Marinas, resorts and restaurants
with transient docking facilities are examples of the use.
      TOE OF THE BLUFF. The lower point of a 50-foot segment with an average
slope exceeding 18%.
      TOP OF THE BLUFF. The higher point of a 50-foot segment with an average
slope exceeding 18%.
      VARIANCE. The same as that term is defined or described in M.S. §
462.357, Subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time.
      WATER-ORIENTED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR FACILITY. A small, above ground
building or other improvement, except stairways, fences, docks and retaining
walls, which, because of the relationship of its use to a surface water
feature, reasonably needs to be located closer to public waters than the normal
structure setback. Examples of the structures and facilities include
boathouses, gazebos, screen houses, fish houses, pump houses and detached
decks.
      WETLAND. A surface water feature classified as a wetland in the United
States Fish and Wildlife Service Circular No. 39, 1971 edition.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.09 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Permits required.
      (1)   A permit is required for the construction of buildings or building
additions, and including such related activities as construction of decks and
signs, the installation and/or alteration of sewage treatment systems and those
grading and filling activities not exempted by this section. Application for a
permit shall be made to the Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer on the forms
provided. The application shall include necessary information so that the
Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer can determine the site’s suitability for the
intended use and that a compliant sewage treatment system will be provided.
      (2)   A permit authorizing an addition to an existing structure shall
stipulate that an identified nonconforming sewage treatment system, as defined
by §
151.42, shall be reconstructed or replaced in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Certificate of zoning compliance. The Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer
shall issue a certificate of zoning compliance or each activity requiring a
permit as specified in division (A) above. This certificate will specify that
the use of land conforms to the requirements of this chapter. Any use,
arrangement or construction at variance with that authorized by permit shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter and shall be punishable as provided in §
151.05.
   (C)   Variances.
      (1)   Variances may only be granted in accordance with M.S. § 462.357,
Subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time, as applicable. A variance may
not circumvent the general purposes and intent of this chapter. No variance may
be granted that would allow any use that is prohibited in the zoning district
in which the subject property is located. Conditions may be imposed in the
granting of a variance to ensure compliance and to protect adjacent properties
and the public interest. In considering a variance request, the Board of
Adjustment must also consider whether the property owner has reasonable use of
the land without the variance, whether the property is used seasonally or year-
round, whether the variance is being requested solely on the basis of economic
considerations and the characteristics of development on adjacent properties.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide requests for
variances in accordance with the rules that it has adopted for the conduct of
business. When a variance is approved after the Department of Natural Resources
has formally recommended denial in the hearing record, the notification of the
approved variance required in division (D) below shall also include the Board
of Adjustment’s summary of the public record/testimony and the findings of
facts and conclusions which supported the issuance of the variance.
      (3)   For existing developments, the application for variance must
clearly demonstrate whether a conforming sewage treatment system is present for
the intended use of the property. The variance, if issued, must require
reconstruction of a nonconforming sewage treatment system.
   (D)   Notifications to the Department of Natural Resources.
      (1)   Copies of all notices of any public hearings to consider variances,
amendments or conditional uses under local shoreland management controls must
be sent to the Commissioner or the Commissioner's designated representative and
postmarked at least ten days before the hearings. Notices of hearings to
consider proposed subdivisions/plats must include copies of the subdivision/
plat.
      (2)   A copy of approved amendments and subdivisions/plats and final
decisions granting variances or conditional uses under local shoreland
management controls must be sent to the Commissioner or the Commissioner's
designated representative and postmarked within ten days of final action.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM AND LAND USE DISTRICTS
§ 151.20 CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   The public waters of the city have been classified below consistent
with the criteria found in Minn. Rules part 6120.3300, as they may be amended
from time to time, and the “Protected Waters Inventory Map for Grant County,
Minnesota.”
   (B)   The shoreland area for the waterbodies shall be as listed by the
Council and as shown on the official zoning map.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.21 DISTRICT DESCRIPTIONS.
   (A)   The land use districts in division (B) below and the delineation of a
land use district’s boundaries on the official zoning map must be consistent
with the goals, policies and objectives of the comprehensive land use plan,
when available, and the following criteria, considerations and objectives.
      (1)   General considerations and criteria for all land uses:
         (a)   Preservation of natural areas;
         (b)   Present ownership and development of shoreland areas;
         (c)   Shoreland soil types and their engineering capabilities;
         (d)   Topographic characteristics;
         (e)   Vegetative cover;
         (f)   In-water physical characteristics, values and constraints;
         (g)   Socioeconomic development needs and plans as they involve water
and related land resources;
         (h)   Recreational use of the surface water;
         (i)   Road and service center accessibility;
         (j)   The land requirements of industry which, by its nature, requires
location in shoreland areas; and
         (k)   The necessity to preserve and restore certain areas having
significant historical or ecological value.
      (2)   Factors and criteria for planned unit developments:
         (a)   Existing recreational use of the surface waters and likely
increases in use associated with planned unit developments;
         (b)   Physical and aesthetic impacts of increased density;
         (c)   Suitability of lands for the planned unit development approach;
         (d)   Level of current development in the area; and
         (e)   Amounts and types of ownership of undeveloped lands.
   (B)   The land use districts provided below and the allowable land uses
therein for the given classifications of waterbodies, shall be properly
delineated on the official zoning map for the shorelands of the community.
These land use districts are in conformance with the criteria specified in
Minn. Rules part 6120.3200, subpart 3, as they may be amended from time to
time:
      (1)   Land use districts for lake:
 General Development Lakes Recreational Development Natural Environment Lakes
                           Lakes
                      General Development Recreational      Natural Environment
                      Lakes               Development Lakes Lakes
Special Protection District Uses
Forest management     P                   P                 P
Sensitive resource    P                   P                 P
management
Agricultural cropland P                   P                 P
and pasture
Agricultural feedlots C                   C                 C
Pants and historic    C                   C                 C
sites
Extractive use        C                   C                 C
Single residential    C                   C                 C
Mining of metallic    P                   P                 P
minerals and peat
Residential District Uses
Single residential    P                   P                 P
Semipublic            C                   C                 C
 General Development Lakes Recreational Development Natural Environment Lakes
                           Lakes
                      General Development Recreational      Natural Environment
                      Lakes               Development Lakes Lakes
Special Protection District Uses
Forest management     P                   P                 P
Sensitive resource    P                   P                 P
management
Agricultural cropland P                   P                 P
and pasture
Agricultural feedlots C                   C                 C
Pants and historic    C                   C                 C
sites
Extractive use        C                   C                 C
Single residential    C                   C                 C
Mining of metallic    P                   P                 P
minerals and peat
Residential District Uses
Single residential    P                   P                 P
Semipublic            C                   C                 C
Paris and historic    C                   C                 C
sites
Extractive use        C                   C                 C
Duplex, triplex, quad P                   P                 C
residential
Forest management     P                   P                 P
Mining of metallic    P                   P                 P
minerals and peat
High Density Residential District Uses
Residential planned   C                   C                 C
unit developments
Single residential    P                   P                 P
Surface water-        C                   C                 C
oriented commercial*
Parks and historic    C                   C                 C
sites
Duplex, triplex, quad P                   P                 P
residential
Forest management     P                   P                 P
Water-Oriented Commercial District Uses
Surface water-        P                   P                 C
oriented commercial
Commercial planned    C                   C                 C
unit development**
Public, semipublic    C                   C                 C
Parks and historic    C                   C                 C
sites
Forest management     P                   P                 P
General Use District Uses
Commercial            P                   P                 C
Commercial planned    C                   C                 C
unit development**
Industrial            C                   C                 N
Public, semipublic    P                   P                 C
Extractive use        C                   C                 C
Parks and historic    C                   C                 C
sites
Forest management     P                   P                 P
Mining of metallic    P                   P                 P
minerals and peat
NOTES TO TABLE:
* - As accessory to a residential planned unit development.
** - Limited expansion of a commercial planned unit development involving up to
six additional dwelling units or sites may be allowed as a permitted use
provided the provisions of §§
151.85 through
151.91 are satisfied.
 
      (2)   Land use districts for rivers and streams:
 
 
 Remote Forested Transition Agricultural Urban Tributary
                        Remote Forested Transition Agricultural Urban Tributary
Special Protection District Uses
Forest management       P      P        P          P            P     P
Sensitive resource      P      P        P          P            P     P
management
Agricultural cropland   P      P        P          P            P     P
and pasture
Agricultural feedlots   C      C        C          C            C     C
Parks and historic      C      C        C          C            C     C
sites
Extractive use          C      C        C          C            C     C
Single residential      C      C        C          C            C     C
Mining of metallic      P      P        P          P            P     P
minerals and peat
Residential District Uses
Single residential      P      P        P          P            P     P
Semipublic              C      C        C          C            C     P
Parks and historic      C      C        C          C            C     P
sites
Extractive uses         C      C        C          C            C     C
Duplex, triplex and     C      C        C          C            P     C
quad residential
Forest management       P      P        P          P            P     P
Mining of metallic      P      P        P          P            P     P
minerals and peat
High Density Residential Uses
Residential planned     C      C        C          C            C     C
unit developments
Single residential      P      P        P          P            P     P
Surface water-oriented  C      C        C          C            C     C
commercials
Semipublic              C      C        G          C            C     C
Parks and historic      C      C        C          C            C     C
sites
Duplex, triplex, quad   P      P        P          P            P     P
residential
Forest management       P      P        P          P            P     P
Water-Oriented Commercial Uses
Surface water-oriented  C      C        C          C            C     C
commercial
Commercial planned unit C      C        C          C            C     C
developments*
Public, semipublic      C      C        C          P            P     P
Parks and historic      C      C        C          C            C     C
sites
Forest management       P      P        P          P            P     P
General Use District Uses
Commercial              C      C        C          C            P     C
Commercial planned unit C      C        C          C            C     C
development**
Industrial              N      C        N          N            C     C
Public, semipublic      C      C        C          C            P     C
Extractive use          C      C        C          C            C     C
Parks and historic      C      C        C          C            C     C
sites
Forest management       P      P        P          P            P     P
Mining of metallic      P      P        P          P            P     P
minerals and peat
NOTES TO TABLE:
* - As accessory to a residential planned unit development.
** - Limited expansion of a commercial planned unit development involving up to
six additional dwelling units or rises may be allowed as a permitted use
provided the provisions of §§
151.85 through
151.91 are satisfied.
 
   (C)   (1)   The land use districts adopted herein, as they apply to
shoreland areas and their delineated boundaries on the official zoning map, are
not consistent with the land use district designation criteria specified in
division (B) herein. These inconsistent land use district designations may
continue until revisions are proposed to change either the land use district
designation within an existing land use district boundary shown on the official
zoning map or to modify the boundary of an existing land use district shown on
the official zoning map.
      (2)   When a revision is proposed to an inconsistent land use district
provision, the following additional criteria and procedures shall apply:
         (a)   Lakes. When a revision to a land use district designation on a
lake is considered, the land use district boundaries and use provisions therein
for all the shoreland areas within the jurisdiction of this chapter on the lake
must be revised to make them substantially compatible with the framework in
divisions (A) and (B) above.
         (b)   Rivers and streams. When a revision to a land use district
designation on a river or stream is proposed, the land use district boundaries
and the use provisions therein for all shoreland on both sides of the river or
stream within the same classification within the jurisdiction of this chapter
must be revised to make them substantially compatible with the framework in
divisions (A) and (B) above. If the same river classification is contiguous for
more than a five-mile segment, only the shoreland for a distance of two and
one-half miles upstream and downstream, or to the class boundary if closer,
need be evaluated and revised.
      (3)   When an interpretation question arises about whether a specific
land use fits within a given “use” category, the interpretation shall be made
by the Board of Adjustment. When a question arises as to whether a land use
district’s boundaries are properly delineated on the official zoning map, this
decision shall be made by the city.
      (4)   When a revision is proposed to an inconsistent land use district
provision by an individual party or landowner, this individual party or
landowner will only be responsible to provide the supporting and/or
substantiating information for the specific parcel in question. The city will
direct the Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer to provide additional information for
this waterbody as is necessary to satisfy divisions (C)(1) and (2) above.
      (5)   The city must make a detailed finding of fact and conclusion when
taking final action that this revision, and the upgrading of any inconsistent
land use district designations on the waterbody, are consistent with the
enumerated criteria and use provisions of this section.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
ZONING AND WATER SUPPLY/SANITARY PROVISIONS
§ 151.35 LOT AREA AND WIDTH STANDARDS.
   The lot area (in square feet) and lot width standards (in feet) for single,
duplex, triplex and quad residential lots created after the date of enactment
of this chapter for the lake and river/stream classifications are the
following:
   (A)   Unsewered lakes:
      (1)   Natural environment:
 
        Riparian Lots Nonriparian Lots
        Area    Width Area    Width
Single  80,000  200   80,000  200
Duplex  120,000 300   160,000 400
Triplex 160,000 400   240,000 600
Quad    200,000 500   320,000 800
 
      (2)   Recreational development:
 
        Riparian Lots Nonriparian Lots
        Area    Width Area    Width
Single  40,000  150   40,000  150
Duplex  80,000  225   80,000  265
Triplex 120,000 300   120,000 375
Quad    160,000 375   160,000 490
 
      (3)   General development:
 
        Riparian Lots Nonriparian Lots
        Area   Width  Area    Width
Single  20,000 100    40,000  150
Duplex  40,000 180    80,000  265
Triplex 60,000 260    120,000 375
Quad    80,000 340    160,000 490
 
   (B)   Sewered lakes:
      (1)   Natural environment:
 
        Riparian Lots Nonriparian Lots
        Area    Width Area   Width
Single  40,000  125   20,000 125
Duplex  70,000  225   35,000 220
Triplex 100,000 325   52,000 315
Quad    130,000 425   65,000 410
 
      (2)   Recreational development:
 
        Riparian Lots Nonriparian Lots
        Area   Width  Area   Width
Single  20,000 75     15,000 75
Duplex  35,000 135    26,000 135
Triplex 50,000 195    38,000 190
Quad    65,000 255    49,000 245
 
      (3)   General development:
 
        Riparian Lots Nonriparian Lots
        Area   Width  Area   Width
Single  15,000 75     10,000 75
Duplex  26,000 135    17,500 135
Triplex 38,000 195    25,000 190
Quad    49,000 255    32,500 245
 
   (C)   There is no minimum lot size requirements for rivers and streams. The
lot width standards for single, duplex, triplex and quad residential
developments for the six river/stream classifications are:
 
                                                Urban and Tributary
        Remote Forested Transition Agricultural No Sewer Sewer
Single  300    200      250        150          100      75
Duplex  450    300      375        225          150      115
Triplex 600    400      500        300          200      150
Quad    750    500      625        375          250      190
 
   (D)   (1)   Residential subdivisions with dwelling unit densities exceeding
those in the tables in divisions (A)(2) and (3) can only be allowed if designed
and approved as residential planned unit developments under §§
151.85 through
151.91. Only land above the ordinary high water level of public waters can be
used to meet lot area standards and lot width standards must be met at both the
ordinary high water level and at the building line. The sewer lot area
dimensions in division (A)(2) above can only be used if publicly-owned sewer
system service is available to the property.
      (2)   Subdivisions of duplexes, triplexes and quads on natural
environment lakes must also meet the following standards.
         (a)   Each building must be set back at least 200 feet from the
ordinary high water level.
         (b)   Each building must have common sewage treatment and water
systems in one location and serve all dwelling units in the building.
         (c)   Watercraft docking facilities for each lot must be centralized
in one location and serve all dwelling units in the building.
         (d)   No more than 25% of a lake’s shoreline can be in duplex, triplex
or quad developments.
      (3)   One guest cottage may be allowed on lots meeting or exceeding the
duplex lot area and width dimensions presented in divisions (A) through (C)
above, provided the following standards are met.
         (a)   For lots exceeding the minimum lot dimensions of duplex lots,
the guest cottage must be located within the smallest duplex-sized lot that
could be created including the principal dwelling unit.
         (b)   A guest cottage must not cover more than 700 square feet of land
surface and must not exceed 15 feet in height.
         (c)   A guest cottage must be located or designed to reduce its
visibility as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by vegetation,
topography, increased setbacks or color, assuming summer leaf-on conditions.
      (4)   Lots intended as controlled accesses to public waters or as
recreation areas for use by owners of nonriparian lots within subdivisions are
permissible and must meet or exceed the following standards.
         (a)   They must meet the width and size requirements for residential
lots and be suitable for the intended uses of controlled access lots.
         (b)   If docking, mooring or over-water storage of more than six
watercraft is to be allowed at a controlled access lot, then the width of the
lot (keeping the same lot depth) must be increased by the percent of the
requirements for riparian residential lots for each watercraft beyond six,
consistent with the following table:
 
Controlled Access Lot Frontage Requirements
Ratio of Lake Size to Shore Length  Required Increase in Frontage (Percent)
(Acres/Mile)
Less than 100                       25
100 to 200                          20
201 to 300                          15
301 to 400                          10
Greater than 400                    5
 
         (c)   They must be jointly owned by all purchasers of lots in the
subdivision or by all purchasers of nonriparian lots in the subdivision who are
provided riparian access rights on the access lot.
         (d)   Covenants or other equally effective legal instruments must be
developed that specify which lot owners have authority to use the access lot
and what activities are allowed. The activities may include watercraft
launching, loading, storage, beaching, mooring or docking. They must also
include other outdoor recreational activities that do not significantly
conflict with general public use of the public water or the enjoyment of normal
property rights by adjacent property owners. Examples of the non-significant
conflict activities include swimming, sunbathing or picnicking. The covenants
must limit the total number of vehicles allowed to be parked and the total
number of watercraft allowed to be continuously moored, docked or stored over
water, and must require centralization of all common facilities and activities
in the most suitable locations on the lot to minimize topographic and
vegetation alterations. They must also require all parking areas, storage
buildings and other facilities to be screened by vegetation or topography as
much as practical from view from the public water, assuming summer, leaf-on
conditions.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.36 PLACEMENT, DESIGN AND HEIGHT OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   (1)   When more than one setback applies to a site, structures and
facilities must be located to meet all setbacks. Where structures exist on the
adjoining lots on both sides of a proposed building site, structure setbacks
may be altered without a variance to conform to the adjoining setbacks from the
ordinary high water level, provided the proposed building site is not located
in a shore impact zone or in a bluff impact zone.
      (2)   Structures shall be located as follows:
         (a)   Structure and on-site sewage system setbacks (in feet) from
ordinary high water level:
                         Setbacks*
Classes of Public Waters Structures        Sewage Treatment System
                         Unsewered Sewered
                                 Setbacks*
Classes of Public Waters         Structures        Sewage Treatment System
                                 Unsewered Sewered
Lakes
Natural environment              150       150     150
Recreational development         100       75      75
General development              75        50      50
Rivers
Remote                           200       200
Forested and transition          150       150
Agriculture, urban and tributary 100       50
NOTE TO TABLE:
* - One water-oriented accessory structure designed in accordance with
division (B)(2) hereof may be set back a minimum ten feet from the ordinary
high water level.
 
         (b)   The following additional setbacks apply, regardless of the
classification:
 
Setback From                                                 Setback (In Feet)
Top of bluff                                                 30
Unplatted cemetery                                           50
Right-of-way line of federal, state or county highway        50
Right-of-way line of town road, public street or other roads 20
or streets not classified
 
         (c)   Structures and accessory facilities, except stairways and
landings, must not be placed within bluff impact zones.
         (d)   Uses without water-oriented needs must be located on lots or
parcels without public waters frontage, or, if located on lots or parcels with
public waters frontage, must either be set back double the normal ordinary high
water level setback or be substantially screened from view from the water by
vegetation or topography, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
   (B)   (1)   Structures must be placed in accordance with any floodplain
regulations applicable to the site. Where these controls do not exist, the
elevation to which the lowest floor, including basement, is placed or flood-
proofed must be determined as follows:
         (a)   For lakes, by placing the lowest floor at a level at least three
feet above the highest known water level or three feet above the ordinary high
water level, whichever is higher;
         (b)   For rivers and streams, by placing the lowest floor at least
three feet above the flood of record, if data are available; and (If data are
not available, by placing the lowest floor at least three feet above the
ordinary high water level or by conducting a technical evaluation to determine
effects of proposed construction upon flood stages and flood flows and to
establish a flood protection elevation. Under all three approaches, technical
evaluations must be done by a qualified engineer or hydrologist consistent with
Minn. Rules parts 6120.5000 to 6120.6200, as they may be amended from time to
time, governing the management of floodplain areas. If more than one approach
is used, the highest flood protection elevation determined must be used for
placing structures and other facilities.)
         (c)   Water-oriented accessory structures may have the lowest floor
placed lower than the elevation determined in this section if the structure is
constructed of flood-resistant materials to the elevation, electrical and
mechanical equipment is placed above the elevation and, if long duration
flooding is anticipated, the structure is built to withstand ice action and
wind-driven waves and debris.
      (2)   Each lot may have one water-oriented accessory structure not
meeting the normal structure setback in division (A) above if this water-
oriented accessory structure complies with the following provisions.
         (a)   The structure or facility must not exceed ten feet in height,
exclusive of safety rails, and cannot occupy an area greater than 250 square
feet. Detached decks must not exceed eight feet above grade at any point.
         (b)   The setback of the structure or facility from the ordinary high
water level must be at least ten feet.
         (c)   The structure or facility must be treated to reduce visibility
as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by vegetation, topography,
increased setbacks or color, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
         (d)   The roof may be used as a deck with safety rails, but must not
be enclosed or used as a storage area.
         (e)   The structure or facility must not be designed or used for human
habitation and must not contain water supply or sewage treatment facilities.
         (f)   As an alternative for general development and recreational
development waterbodies, water-oriented accessory structures used solely for
watercraft storage, and including storage of related boating and water-oriented
sporting equipment, may occupy an area up to 400 square feet provided the
maximum width of the structure is 20 feet as measured parallel to the
configuration of the shoreline.
      (3)   Stairways and lifts are the preferred alternative to major
topographic alterations for achieving access up and down bluffs and steep
slopes to shore areas. Stairways and lifts must meet the following design
requirements.
         (a)   Stairways and lifts must not exceed four feet in width on
residential lots. Wider stairways may be used for commercial properties, public
open-space recreational properties and planned unit developments.
         (b)   Landings for stairways and lifts on residential lots must not
exceed 32 square feet in area. Landings larger than 32 square feet may be used
for commercial properties, public open-space recreational properties and
planned unit developments.
         (c)   Canopies or roofs are not allowed on stairways, lifts or
landings.
         (d)   Stairways, lifts and landings may be either constructed above
the ground on posts or pilings or placed into the ground; provided they are
designed and built in a manner that ensures control of soil erosion.
         (e)   Stairways, lifts and landings must be located in the most
visually inconspicuous portions of lots, as viewed from the surface of the
public water assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, whenever practical.
         (f)   Facilities such as ramps, lifts or mobility paths for physically
handicapped persons are also allowed for achieving access to shore areas;
provided that the dimensional and performance standards of divisions (B)(3)(a)
through (e) above are complied with in addition to the requirements of Minn.
Rules Ch. 1340, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   No structure may be placed on a significant historic site in a
manner that affects the values of the site unless adequate information about
the site has been removed and documented in a public repository.
      (5)   (a)   The Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer must evaluate possible soil
erosion impacts and development visibility from public waters before issuing a
permit for construction of sewage treatment systems, roads, driveways,
structures or other improvements on steep slopes.
         (b)   When determined necessary, conditions must be attached to issued
permits to prevent erosion and to preserve existing vegetation screening of
structures, vehicles and other facilities as viewed from the surface of public
waters, assuming summer, leaf-on vegetation.
   (C)   All structures in residential districts, except churches and
nonresidential agricultural structures, must not exceed 25 feet in height.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.37 SHORELAND ALTERATIONS.
   Alterations of vegetation and topography will be regulated to prevent
erosion into public waters, fix nutrients, preserve shoreland aesthetics,
preserve historic values, prevent bank slumping and protect fish and wildlife
habitat.
   (A)   (1)   Vegetation alteration necessary for the construction of
structures and sewage treatment systems and the construction of roads and
parking areas regulated by §
151.38 are exempt from the vegetation alteration standards that follow.
      (2)   Removal or alteration of vegetation, except for agricultural and
forest management uses, as regulated in §
151.40, is allowed subject to the following standards:
         (a)   Intensive vegetation clearing within the shore and bluff impact
zones and on steep slopes is not allowed. Intensive vegetation clearing for
forest land conversion to another use outside of
these areas is allowable as a conditional use if an erosion control and
sedimentation plan is developed and approved by the soil and water conservation
district in which the property is located.
         (b)   In shore and bluff impact zones and on steep slopes, limited
clearing of trees and shrubs and cutting, pruning and trimming of trees is
allowed to provide a view to the water from the principal dwelling site and to
accommodate the placement of stairways and landings, picnic areas, access
paths, livestock watering areas, beach and watercraft access areas and
permitted water-oriented accessory structures or facilities, provided that:
            1.   The screening of structures, vehicles or other facilities, as
viewed from the water, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, is not
substantially reduced;
            2.   Along rivers, existing shading of water surfaces is preserved;
and
            3.   The above provisions are not applicable to the removal of
trees, limbs or branches that are dead, diseased or pose safety hazards.
   (B)   (1)   Grading and filling and excavations necessary for the
construction of structures, sewage treatment systems and driveways under
validly issued construction permits for these facilities do not require the
issuance of a separate grading and filling permit. However, the grading and
filling standards in this section must be incorporated into the issuance of
permits for construction of structures, sewage treatment systems and driveways.
      (2)   Public roads and parking areas are regulated by §
151.38.
      (3)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(1) and (2) above, a grading and
filling permit will be required for:
         (a)   The movement of more than ten cubic yards of material on steep
slopes or within shore or bluff impact zones; and
         (b)   The movement of more than 50 cubic yards of material outside of
steep slopes and shore and bluff impact zones.
      (4)   The following considerations and conditions must be adhered to
during the issuance of construction permits, grading and filling permits,
conditional use permits, variances and subdivision approvals:
         (a)   1.   Grading or filling in any type 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8
wetland must be evaluated to determine how extensively the proposed activity
would affect the following functional qualities of the wetland:
               a.   Sediment and pollutant trapping and retention;
               b.   Storage of surface runoff to prevent or reduce flood
damage;
               c.   Fish and wildlife habitat;
               d.   Recreational use;
               e.   Shoreline or bank stabilization; and
               f.   Noteworthiness, including special qualities such as
historic significance, critical habitat for endangered plants and animals or
others.
            2.   This evaluation must also include a determination of whether
the wetland alteration being proposed requires permits, reviews or approvals by
other local, state or federal agencies such as a watershed district, the
Minnesota Department of Natural Resources or the United States Army Corps of
Engineers. The applicant will be so advised.
         (b)   Alterations must be designed and conducted in a manner that
ensures only the smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for the shortest
time possible.
         (c)   Mulches or similar materials must be used, where necessary, for
temporary bare soil coverage and a permanent vegetation cover must be
established as soon as possible.
         (d)   Methods to minimize soil erosion and to trap sediments before
they reach any surface water feature must be used.
         (e)   Altered areas must be stabilized to acceptable erosion control
standards consistent with the field office technical guides of the local soil
and water conservation districts and the United States Soil Conservation
Service.
         (f)   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in a manner that
creates an unstable slope.
         (g)   Plans to place fill or excavated material on steep slopes must
be reviewed by qualified professionals for continued slope stability and must
not create finished slopes of 30% or greater.
         (h)   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in bluff impact
zones.
         (i)   Any alterations below the ordinary high water level of public
waters must first be authorized by the Commissioner under M.S. § 105.42, as it
may be amended from time to time.
         (j)   Alterations of topography must only be allowed if they are
accessory to permitted or conditional uses and do not adversely affect adjacent
or nearby properties.
         (k)   Placement of natural rock riprap, including associated grading
of the shoreline and placement of a filter blanket, is permitted if the
finished slope does not exceed three feet horizontal to one foot vertical, the
landward extent of the riprap is within ten feet of the ordinary high water
level and the height of the riprap above the ordinary high water level does not
exceed three feet.
      (5)   Excavations where the intended purpose is connection to a public
water, such as boat slips, canals, lagoons and harbors, must be controlled by
local shoreland controls. Permission for excavations may be given only after
the Commissioner has approved the proposed connection to public waters.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.38 PLACEMENT AND DESIGN OF ROADS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   (1)   Public and private roads and parking areas must be designed to
take advantage of natural vegetation and topography to achieve maximum
screening from view from public waters.
      (2)   Documentation must be provided by a qualified individual that all
roads and parking areas are designed and constructed to minimize and control
erosion to public waters consistent with the field office technical guides of
the local soil and water conservation district or other applicable technical
materials.
   (B)   (1)   Roads, driveways and parking areas must meet structure setbacks
and must not be placed within bluff and shore impact zones, when other
reasonable and feasible placement alternatives exist.
      (2)   If no alternatives exist, they may be placed within these areas and
must be designed to minimize adverse impacts.
   (C)   Public and private watercraft access ramps, approach roads and access-
related parking areas may be placed within shore impact zones provided the
vegetative screening and erosion control conditions of this division are met.
For private facilities, the grading and filling provisions of §
151.37 must be met.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.39 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   The following general and specific standards shall apply:
   (A)   (1)   When possible, existing natural drainageways, wetlands and
vegetated soil surfaces must be used to convey, store, filter and retain
stormwater runoff before discharge to public waters.
      (2)   Development must be planned and conducted in a manner that will
minimize the extent of disturbed areas, runoff velocities, erosion potential
and reduce and delay runoff volumes. Disturbed areas must be stabilized and
protected as soon as possible and facilities or methods used to retain sediment
on the site.
      (3)   When development density, topographic features and soil and
vegetation conditions are not sufficient to adequately handle stormwater runoff
using natural features and vegetation, various types of constructed facilities
such as diversions, settling basins, skimming devices, dikes, waterways and
ponds may be used. Preference must be given to designs using surface drainage,
vegetation and infiltration rather than buried pipes and manmade materials and
facilities.
   (B)   (1)   Impervious surface coverage of lots must not exceed 25% of the
lot area.
      (2)   When constructed facilities are used for stormwater management,
documentation must be provided by a qualified individual that they are designed
and installed consistent with the field office technical guide of the local
soil and water conservation districts.
      (3)   New constructed stormwater outfalls to public waters must provide
for filtering or settling of suspended solids and skimming of surface debris
before discharge.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.40 COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL AND THE LIKE; EXTRACTIVE USES AND MINING.
   (A)   (1)   Surface water-oriented commercial uses and industrial, public or
semipublic uses with similar needs to have access to and use of public waters
may be located on parcels or lots with frontage on public waters. Those uses
with water-oriented needs must meet the following standards:
         (a)   In addition to meeting impervious coverage limits, setbacks and
other zoning standards in this chapter, the uses must be designed to
incorporate topographic and vegetative screening of parking areas and
structures.
         (b)   Uses that require short-term watercraft mooring for patrons must
centralize these facilities and design them to avoid obstructions of navigation
and to be the minimum size necessary to meet the need.
         (c)   Uses that depend on patrons arriving by watercraft may use signs
and lighting to convey needed information to the public, subject to the
following general standards.
            1.   No advertising signs or supporting facilities for signs may be
placed in or upon public waters. Signs conveying information or safety messages
may be placed in or on public waters by a public authority or under a permit
issued by the County Sheriff.
            2.   Signs may be placed, when necessary, within the shore impact
zone if they are designed and sized to be the minimum necessary to convey
needed information. They must only convey the location and name of the
establishment and the general types of goods or services available. The signs
must not contain other detailed information such as product brands and prices,
must not be located higher than ten feet above the ground and must not exceed
32 square feet in size. If illuminated by artificial lights, the lights must be
shielded or directed to prevent illumination out across public waters.
            3.   Other outside lighting may be located within the shore impact
zone or over public waters if it is used primarily to illuminate potential
safety hazards and is shielded or otherwise directed to prevent direct
illumination out across public waters. This does not preclude use of
navigational lights.
      (2)   Uses without water-oriented needs must be located on lots or
parcels without public waters frontage, or, if located on lots or parcels with
public waters frontage, must either be set back double the normal ordinary high
water level setback or be substantially screened from view from the water by
vegetation or topography, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
   (B)   (1)   General cultivation farming, grazing, nurseries, horticulture,
truck farming, sod farming and wild crop harvesting are permitted uses if steep
slopes and shore and bluff impact zones are maintained in permanent vegetation
or operated under an approved conservation plan (Resource Management Systems)
consistent with the field office technical guides of the local soil and water
conservation districts or the United States Soil Conservation Service, as
provided by a qualified individual or agency. The shore impact zone for parcels
with permitted agricultural land uses is equal to a line parallel to and 50
feet from the ordinary high water level.
      (2)   Animal feedlots must meet the following standards:
         (a)   New feedlots must not be located in the shoreland of
watercourses or in bluff impact zones and must meet a minimum setback of 300
feet from the ordinary high water level of all public waters basins.
         (b)   Modifications or expansions to existing feedlots that are
located within 300 feet of the ordinary high water level or within a bluff
impact zone are allowed if they do not further encroach into the existing
ordinary high water level setback or encroach on bluff impact zones.
   (C)   The harvesting of timber and associated reforestation must be
conducted consistent with the provisions of the Minnesota Non-point Source
Pollution Assessment Forestry and the provisions of Water Quality in Forest
Management “Best Management Practices in Minnesota.”
   (D)   (1)   Site development and restoration plan. An extractive use site
development and restoration plan must be developed, approved and followed over
the course of operation of the site. The plan must address dust, noise,
possible pollutant discharges, hours and duration of operation and anticipated
vegetation and topographic alterations. It must also identify actions to be
taken during operation to mitigate adverse environmental impacts, particularly
erosion and must clearly explain how the site will be rehabilitated after
extractive activities end.
      (2)   Setbacks for processing machinery. Processing machinery must be
located consistent with setback standards for structures from ordinary high
water levels of public waters and from bluffs.
   (E)   Mining of metallic minerals and peat, as defined in M.S. §§ 93.44 to
93.51, as they may be amended from time to time, shall be a permitted use
provided the provisions of M.S. §§ 93.44 to 93.51, as they may be amended from
time to time, are satisfied.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.41 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Conditional uses allowable within shoreland areas shall be subject to
the review and approval procedures and criteria and conditions for review of
conditional uses established community-wide.
   (B)   The following additional evaluation criteria and conditions apply
within shoreland areas:
      (1)   Evaluation criteria. A thorough evaluation of the waterbody and the
topographic, vegetation and sod conditions on the site must be made to ensure:
         (a)   The prevention of soil erosion or other possible pollution of
public waters, both during and after construction;
         (b)   The visibility of structures and other facilities as viewed from
public waters is limited;
         (c)   The site is adequate for water supply and on-site sewage
treatment; and
         (d)   The types, uses and numbers of watercraft that the project will
generate are compatible in relation to the suitability of public waters to
safely accommodate these watercraft.
      (2)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits. The city, upon
consideration of the criteria listed above and the purposes of this chapter,
shall attach conditions to the issuance of the conditional use permits as it
deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this chapter. The conditions may
include, but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   Increased setbacks from the ordinary high water level;
         (b)   Limitations on the natural vegetation to be removed or the
requirement that additional vegetation be planted; and
         (c)   Special provisions for the location, design and use of
structures, sewage treatment systems, watercraft launching and docking areas
and vehicle parking areas.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.42 WATER SUPPLY; SEWAGE TREATMENT.
   (A)   Any public or private supply of water for domestic purposes must meet
or exceed standards for water quality of the State Department of Health and the
State Pollution Control Agency.
   (B)   Any premises used for human occupancy must be provided with an
adequate method of sewage treatment, as follows.
      (1)   Publicly-owned sewer systems must be used where available.
      (2)   All private sewage treatment systems must meet or exceed the State
Pollution Control Agency's standards for individual sewage treatment systems
contained in the document titled, “Individual Sewage Treatment Systems
Standards, Minn. Rules Chapter 7080,” a copy of which is hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
      (3)   On-site sewage treatment systems must be set back from the ordinary
high water level in accordance with the setbacks contained in §
151.36.
      (4)   (a)   All proposed sites for individual sewage treatment systems
shall be evaluated in accordance with the criteria in this division (B). If the
determination of a site's suitability cannot be made with publicly available,
existing information, it shall then be the responsibility of the applicant to
provide sufficient soil borings and percolation tests from on-site field
investigations.
         (b)   Evaluation criteria:
            1.   Depth to the highest known or calculated ground water table or
bedrock;
            2.   Soil conditions, properties and permeability;
            3.   Slope; and
            4.   The existence of lowlands, local surface depressions and rock
outcrops;
      (5)   Nonconforming sewage treatment systems shall be regulated and
upgraded in accordance with §
151.56.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
NONCONFORMITIES
§ 151.55 GENERAL.
   All legally established nonconformities as of the date of this chapter may
continue, but they will be managed according to applicable state statutes and
other regulations of the community for the subjects of alterations and
additions, repair after damage, discontinuance of use and intensification of
use, except that the following standards will also apply in shoreland areas.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.56 CONSTRUCTION ON LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   (1)   Lots of record in the office of the County Recorder on the date
of enactment of local shoreland controls that do not meet the requirements of §
151.35 may be allowed as building sites without variances from lot size
requirements provided the use is permitted in the zoning district, the lot has
been in separate ownership from abutting lands at all times since it became
substandard, was created compliant with official controls in effect at the time
and sewage treatment and setback requirements of this chapter are met.
      (2)   A variance from setback requirements must be obtained before any
use, sewage treatment system or building permit is issued for a lot. In
evaluating the variance, the Board of Adjustment shall consider sewage
treatment and water supply capabilities or constraints of the lot and shall
deny the variance if adequate facilities cannot be provided.
   (B)   If, in a group of two or more contiguous lots under the same
ownership, any individual lot does not meet the requirements of §
151.35, the lot must not be considered as a separate parcel of land for the
purposes of sale or development. The lot must be combined with the one or more
contiguous lots so they equal one or more parcels of land, each meeting the
requirements of §
151.35 as much as possible.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.57 ADDITIONS OR EXPANSIONS TO STRUCTURES.
   (A)   All additions or expansions to the outside dimensions of an existing
nonconforming structure must meet the setback, height and other requirements of
§§
151.35 through
151.42. Any deviation from these requirements must be authorized by a variance
pursuant to §
151.09(C).
   (B)   Deck additions may be allowed without a variance to a structure not
meeting the required setback from the ordinary high water level if all of the
following criteria and standards are met:
      (1)   The structure existed on the date the structure setbacks were
established;
      (2)   A thorough evaluation of the property and structure reveals no
reasonable location for a deck meeting or exceeding the existing ordinary high
water level setback of the structure;
      (3)   The deck encroachment toward the ordinary high water level does not
exceed 15% of the existing setback of the structure from the ordinary high
water level or does not encroach closer than 30 feet, whichever is more
restrictive; and
      (4)   The deck is constructed primarily of wood and is not roofed or
screened.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.58 SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEMS.
   (A)   A sewage treatment system not meeting the requirements of §
151.42 must be upgraded, at a minimum, at any time a permit or variance of any
type is required for any improvement on, or use of the property. For the
purposes of this provision, a sewage treatment system shall not be considered
nonconforming if the only deficiency is the sewage treatment system's improper
setback from the ordinary high water level.
   (B)   (1)   The governing body has, by formal resolution, notified the
Commissioner of its program to identify nonconforming sewage treatment systems.
      (2)   The city will require upgrading or replacement of any nonconforming
system identified by this program within a reasonable period of time which will
not exceed two years.
      (3)   Sewage systems installed according to all applicable local
shoreland management standards adopted under M.S. § 105.485, as it may be
amended from time to time, in effect at the time of installation may be
considered as conforming unless they are determined to be failing, except that
systems using cesspools, leaching pits, seepage pits or other deep disposal
methods or systems with less soil treatment area separation above groundwater
than required by Minn. Rules Chapter 7080 for on-site sewage treatment systems,
shall be considered nonconforming.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
SUBDIVISION/PLATTING PROVISIONS
§ 151.70 LAND SUITABILITY.
   (A)   Each lot created through subdivision, including planned unit
developments authorized under §§
151.85 through
151.91 must be suitable in its natural state for the proposed use with minimal
alteration.
   (B)   Suitability analysis by the local unit of government shall consider
susceptibility to flooding, existence of wetlands, soil and rock formations
with severe limitations for development, severe erosion potential, steep
topography, inadequate water supply or sewage treatment capabilities, near-
shore aquatic conditions unsuitable for water-based recreation, important fish
and wildlife habitat, presence of significant historic sites or any other
feature of the natural land likely to be harmful to the health, safety or
welfare of future residents of the proposed subdivision or of the community.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.71 CONSISTENCY WITH OTHER CONTROLS.
   Subdivisions must conform to all official controls of the community. A
subdivision will not be approved where a later variance from one or more
standards in official controls would be needed to use the lots for their
intended purpose. In areas not served by publicly-owned sewer and water
systems, a subdivision will not be approved unless domestic water supply is
available and a sewage treatment system consistent with §§
151.36 and 151.151.42 can be provided for every lot. Each lot shall meet the
minimum lot size and dimensional requirements of §
151.35, including at least a minimum contiguous lawn area, that is free of
limiting factors sufficient for the construction of two standard soil treatment
systems. Lots that would require use of holding tanks must not be approved.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.72 INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Sufficient information must be submitted by the applicant for the
community to make a determination of land suitability.
   (B)   The information shall include at least the following:
      (1)   Topographic contours at ten-foot intervals or less from United
States Geological Survey maps or more accurate sources, showing limiting site
characteristics;
      (2)   The surface water features required in M.S. § 505.02(1), as it may
be amended from time to time, to be shown on plats, obtained from United States
Geological Survey quadrangle topographic maps or more accurate sources;
      (3)   Adequate soils information to determine suitability for building
and on-site sewage treatment capabilities for every lot from the most current
existing sources or from field investigations such as soil borings, percolatibn
tests or other methods;
      (4)   Information regarding adequacy of domestic water supply; extent of
anticipated vegetation and topographic alterations; near-shore aquatic
conditions, including depths, types of bottom sediments and aquatic vegetation;
and proposed methods for controlling stormwater runoff and erosion, both during
and after construction activities;
      (5)   Location of 100-year flood plain areas and floodway districts from
existing adopted maps or data; and
      (6)   A line or contour representing the ordinary high water level, the
“toe” and the “top” of bluffs, and the minimum building setback distances from
the top of the bluff and the lake or stream.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.73 DEDICATIONS.
   When a land or easement dedication is a condition of subdivision approval,
the approval must provide easements over natural drainage or ponding areas for
management of stormwater and significant wetlands.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.74 PLATTING.
   (A)   All subdivisions that create five or more lots or parcels that are two
and one-half acres or less in size shall be processed as a plat in accordance
with M.S. Ch. 505, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   No permit for construction of buildings or sewage treatment systems
shall be issued for lots created after these official controls were enacted
unless the lot was approved as part of a formal subdivision.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.75 CONTROLLED ACCESS OR RECREATIONAL LOTS.
   Lots intended as controlled accesses to public waters or for recreational
use areas for use by nonriparian lots within a subdivision must meet or exceed
the sizing criteria in §
151.38.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
§ 151.85 TYPES PERMISSIBLE.
   (A)   Planned unit developments (PUDs) are allowed for new projects on
undeveloped land, redevelopment of previously built sites or conversions of
existing buildings and land.
   (B)   The land use districts in which they are an allowable use are
identified in the land use district descriptions in §
151.21 and the official zoning map.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.86 PROCESSING.
   Planned unit developments must be processed as a conditional use, except
that an expansion to an existing commercial PUD involving six or less new
dwelling units or sites since the date this chapter was adopted is permissible
as a permitted use provided the total project density does not exceed the
allowable densities calculated in the project density evaluation procedures in
§
151.89. Approval cannot occur until the environmental review process is
complete.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.87 APPLICATION.
   The applicant for a PUD must submit the following documents prior to final
action being taken on the application request.
   (A)   (1)   A site plan and/or plat for the project showing locations of
property boundaries, surface water features, existing and proposed structures
and other facilities, land alterations, sewage treatment and water supply
systems, where public systems will not be provided, and topographic contours at
ten-foot intervals or less.
      (2)   When a PUD is a combined commercial and residential development,
the site plan and/or plat must indicate and distinguish which buildings and
portions of the project are residential, commercial or a combination of the
two.
   (B)   A property owners association agreement (for residential PUDs) with
mandatory membership and all in accordance with the requirements of §
151.90.
   (C)   Deed restrictions, covenants, permanent easements or other instruments
that:
      (1)   Properly address future vegetative and topographic alterations,
construction of additional buildings, beaching of watercraft and construction
of commercial buildings in residential PUDs; and
      (2)   Ensure the long-term preservation and maintenance of open space in
accordance with the criteria and analysis specified in §
151.90.
   (D)   When necessary, a master plan/drawing describing the project and the
floor plan for all commercial structures to be occupied.
   (E)   Those additional documents as requested by the city that are necessary
to explain how the PUD will be designed and will function.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.88 SITE “SUITABLE AREA” EVALUATION.
   Proposed new or expansions to existing planned unit developments must be
evaluated using the following procedures and standards to determine the
suitable area for the dwelling unit/dwelling site density evaluation in §
151.89.
   (A)   The project parcel must be divided into tiers by locating one or more
lines approximately parallel to a line that identifies the ordinary high water
level at the following intervals, proceeding landward:
 
Shoreland Tier Dimensions
                                      Unsewered (Feet) Sewered (Feet)
General development lakes, first tier 200              200
General development lakes, second and 267              200
additional tiers
Recreational development lakes        267              267
Natural environment lakes             400              320
All river classes                     300              300
 
   (B)   (1)   The suitable area within each tier is next calculated by
excluding from the tier area all wetlands, bluffs or land below the ordinary
high water level of public waters.
      (2)   This suitable area and the proposed project are then subjected to
either the residential or commercial planned unit development density
evaluation steps to arrive at an allowable number of dwelling units or sites.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.89 RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL DENSITY EVALUATION.
   (A)   The procedures for determining the “base” density of a PUD and density
increase multipliers are as follows.
   (B)   Allowable densities may be transferred from any tier to any other tier
further from the waterbody, but must not be transferred to any other tier
closer.
      (1)   Residential PUD “base” density evaluation:
         (a)   The suitable area within each tier is divided by the single
residential lot size standard for lakes or, for rivers, the single residential
lot width standard times the tier depth, unless the local unit of government
has specified an alternative minimum lot size for rivers which shall then be
used to yield a base density of dwelling units or sites for each tier.
         (b)   Proposed locations and numbers of dwelling units or sites for
the residential planned unit developments are then compared with the tier,
density and suitability analyses herein and the design criteria in §
151.90.
      (2)   Commercial PUD “base” density evaluation:
         (a)   Determine the average inside living area size of dwelling units
or sites within each tier, including both existing and proposed units and
sites; (Computation of inside living area sizes need not include decks, patios,
stoops, steps, garages or porches and basements unless they are habitable
space.)
         (b)   Select the appropriate floor area ratio from the following
table:
Commercial Planned Unit Development Floor Area Ratios* Public Waters Classes
                    Sewered General    Second and
                    Development Lakes; Additional Tiers on
                    First Tier on      Unsewerd General
Average Unit Floor  Unsewered General  Development Lakes;  Natural Environment
Area (Square Feet)* Development Lakes; Recreational        Lakes and Remote
                    Urban,             Development Lakes;  River Segments
                    Agricultural,      Transition and
                    Tributary River    Forested River
                    Segments           Segments
Commercial Planned Unit Development Floor Area Ratios* Public Waters Classes
                    Sewered General    Second and
                    Development Lakes; Additional Tiers on
                    First Tier on      Unsewerd General
Average Unit Floor  Unsewered General  Development Lakes;  Natural Environment
Area (Square Feet)* Development Lakes; Recreational        Lakes and Remote
                    Urban,             Development Lakes;  River Segments
                    Agricultural,      Transition and
                    Tributary River    Forested River
                    Segments           Segments
1, 000              .108               .054                .027
1,100               .116               .058                .029
1,200               .125               .064                .032
1,300               .133               .068                .034
1,400               .142               .072                .036
1,500               .150               .075                .038
NOTE TO TABLE:
* - For average unit floor areas less than shown, use the floor area ratios
listed for 200 square feet. For areas greater than shown, use the ratios
listed for 1,500 square feet. For recreational camping areas, use the ratios
listed at 400 square feet. Manufactured home sites in recreational camping
areas shall use a ratio equal to the size of the manufactured home, or if
unknown, the ratio listed for 1,000 square feet.
 
         (c)   Multiply the suitable area within each tier by the floor area
ratio to yield total floor area for each tier allowed to be used for dwelling
units or sites;
         (d)   Divide the total floor, area by tier computed in division (B)(2)
(c) above by the average inside living area size determined in division (B)(2)
(a) above; and (This yields a base number of dwelling units and sites for each
tier.)
         (e)   Proposed locations and numbers of dwelling units or sites for
the commercial planned unit development are then compared with the tier,
density and suitability analyses herein and the design criteria in §
151.90.
      (3)   Density increase multipliers:
         (a)   Increases to the dwelling unit or dwelling site base densities
previously determined are allowable if the dimensional standards in §§
151.35 through
151.42 are met or exceeded and the design criteria in §
151.90 are satisfied. The allowable density increases in division (B)(3)(b)
below will only be allowed if structure setbacks from the ordinary high water
level are increased to at least 50% greater than the minimum setback or the
impact on the waterbody is reduced an equivalent amount through topography or
additional means acceptable to the local unit of government and the setback is
at least 25% greater than the minimum setback.
         (b)   Allowable dwelling unit or dwelling site density increases for
residential or commercial planned unit developments:
 
Density Evaluation Tiers Maximum Density Increase within Each Tier (Percent)
First                    50
Second                   100
Third                    200
Fourth                   200
Fifth                    200
 
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.90 MAINTENANCE AND DESIGN CRITERIA.
   (A)   (1)   Before final approval of a planned unit development, adequate
provisions must be developed for preservation and maintenance in perpetuity of
open spaces and for the continued existence and functioning of the development:
      (2)   Deed restrictions, covenants, permanent easements, public
dedication and acceptance or other equally effective and permanent means must
be provided to ensure long-term preservation and maintenance of open space. The
instruments must include all of the following protections:
         (a)   Commercial uses prohibited (for residential PUDs);
         (b)   Vegetation and topographic alterations other than routine
maintenance prohibited;
         (c)   Construction of additional buildings or storage of vehicles and
other materials prohibited; and
         (d)   Uncontrolled beaching of watercraft prohibited.
      (3)   Unless an equally effective alternative community framework is
established, when applicable, all residential planned unit developments must
use an owners’ association with the following features.
         (a)   Membership must be mandatory for each dwelling unit or site
purchaser and any successive purchasers.
         (b)   Each member must pay a pro rata share of the association’s
expenses and unpaid assessments can become liens on units or sites.
         (c)   Assessments must be adjustable to accommodate changing
conditions.
         (d)   The association must be responsible for insurance, taxes and
maintenance of all commonly owned property and facilities.
   (B)   Planned unit developments must contain open space meeting all of the
following criteria.
      (1)   At least 50% of the total project area must be preserved as open
space.
      (2)   Dwelling units or sites, road rights-of-way or land covered by road
surfaces, parking areas or structures, except water-oriented accessory
structures or facilities, are developed areas and shall not be included in the
computation of minimum open space.
      (3)   Open space must include areas with physical characteristics
unsuitable for development in their natural state and areas containing
significant historic sites or unplatted cemeteries.
      (4)   Open space may include outdoor recreational facilities for use by
owners of dwelling units or sites by guests staying in commercial dwelling
units or sites and by the general public.
      (5)   Open space may include subsurface sewage treatment systems if the
use of the space is restricted to avoid adverse impacts on the systems.
      (6)   Open space must not include commercial facilities or uses, but may
contain water-oriented accessory structures or facilities.
      (7)   The appearance of open space areas, including topography,
vegetation and allowable uses, must be preserved by use of restrictive deed
covenants, permanent easements, public dedication and acceptance or other
equally effective and permanent means.
      (8)   The shore impact zone, based on normal structure setbacks, must be
included as open space. For residential PUDs, at least 50% of the shore impact
zone area of existing developments or at least 70% of the shore impact zone
area of new developments must be preserved in its natural or existing state.
For commercial PUDs, at least 50% of the shore impact zone must be preserved in
its natural state.
   (C)   Erosion control and stormwater management erosion control and
stormwater management plans must be developed and the PUD must:
      (1)   Be designed, and the construction managed, to minimize the
likelihood of serious erosion occurring either during or after construction;
and (This must be accomplished by limiting the amount and length of time of
bare ground exposure. Temporary ground covers, sediment entrapment facilities,
vegetated buffer strips or other appropriate techniques must be used to
minimize erosion impacts on surface water features. Erosion control plans
approved by a soil and water conservation district may be required if project
size and site physical characteristics warrant.)
      (2)   Be designed and constructed to effectively manage reasonably
expected quantities and qualities of stormwater runoff. Impervious surface
coverage within any tier must not exceed 25% of the tier area, except that for
commercial PUDs 35% impervious surface coverage be allowed in the first tier of
general development lakes with an approved stormwater management plan and
consistency with §
151.37.
   (D)   Centralization and design of facilities and structures must be done
according to the following standards:
      (1)   Planned unit developments must be connected to publicly owned water
supply and sewer systems, if available. On-site water supply and sewage
treatment systems must be centralized and designed and installed to meet or
exceed applicable standards or rules of the Minnesota Department of Health and
§§
151.36 and
151.42. On-site sewage treatment systems must be located on the most suitable
areas of the development and sufficient lawn area free of limiting factors must
be provided for a replacement soil treatment system or each sewage system.
      (2)   Dwelling units or sites must be clustered. into one or more groups
and located on suitable areas of the development. They must be designed and
located to meet or exceed the following dimensional standards for the relevant
shoreland classification: setback from the ordinary high water level, elevation
above, the surface water features and maximum height. Setbacks from the
ordinary high water level must be increased in accordance with §
151.89 for developments with density increases.
      (3)   Shore recreation facilities, including, but not limited to swimming
areas, docks and watercraft mooring areas and launching ramps, must be
centralized and located in areas suitable for them. Evaluation of suitability
must include consideration of land slope, water depth, vegetation, soils, depth
to groundwater and bedrock or other relevant factors. The number of spaces
provided for continuous beaching, mooring or docking of watercraft must not
exceed one for each allowable dwelling unit or site in the first tier
(notwithstanding existing mooring sites in an existing commercially used
harbor). Launching ramp facilities, including a small dock for loading and
unloading equipment, may be provided for use by occupants of dwelling units or
sites located in other tiers.
      (4)   Structures, parking areas and other facilities must be treated to
reduce visibility as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by
vegetation, topography, increased setbacks, color or other means acceptable to
the local unit of government, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions. Vegetative
and topographic screening must be preserved, if existing, or may be required to
be provided.
      (5)   Accessory structures and facilities, except water-oriented
accessory structures, must meet the required principal structure setback and
must be centralized.
      (6)   Water-oriented accessory structures and facilities may be allowed
if they meet or exceed design standards contained in §
151.36 and are centralized.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
§ 151.91 CONVERSIONS.
   Local governments may allow existing resorts or other land uses and
facilities to be converted to residential planned unit developments if all of
the following standards are met.
   (A)   Proposed conversions must be initially evaluated using the same
procedures for residential planned unit developments involving all new
construction. Inconsistencies between existing features of the development and
these standards must be identified.
   (B)   Deficiencies involving water supply and sewage treatment, structure
color, impervious coverage, open space and shore recreation facilities must be
corrected as part of the conversion or as specified in the conditional use
permit.
   (C)   Shore and bluff impact zone deficiencies must be evaluated and
reasonable improvements made as part of the conversion. These improvements must
include, where applicable, the following:
      (1)   Removal of extraneous buildings, docks or other facilities that no
longer need to be located in shore or bluff impact zones;
      (2)   Remedial measures to correct erosion sites and improve vegetative
cover and screening of buildings and other facilities as viewed from the water;
and
      (3)   If existing dwelling units are located in shore or bluff impact
zones, conditions are attached to approvals of conversions that preclude
exterior expansions in any dimension or substantial alterations. The conditions
must also provide for future relocation of dwelling units, where feasible, to
other locations, meeting all setback and elevation requirements when they are
rebuilt or replaced.
   (D)   Existing dwelling unit or dwelling site densities that exceed
standards in §
151.89 may be allowed to continue but must not be allowed to be increased,
either at the time of conversion or in the future. Efforts must be made during
the conversion to limit impacts of high densities by requiring seasonal use,
improving vegetative screening, centralizing shore recreation facilities,
installing new sewage treatment systems or other means.
(Ord. 180, passed 12-13-93)
CHAPTER 152: ELBOW LAKE MUNICIPAL AIRPORT AND HELIPORT ZONING ORDINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Purpose and authority
   
152.02   Short title
   
152.03   Definitions
District Regulations; General
   
152.15   Airport airspace obstruction zoning
   
152.16   Heliport airspace obstruction zoning
   
152.17   Land use safety zoning
   
152.18   Airport and Heliport Zoning Map
   
152.19   Nonconforming uses
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.30   Permits
   
152.31   Variances
   
152.32   Hazard marking and lighting
   
152.33   Airport and Heliport Zoning Administrator
   
152.34   Airport and Heliport Zoning Board of Adjustment
   
152.35   Appeals
   
152.36   Judicial review
   
152.37   Conflicts
   
152.38   Severability
   
152.39   Effective date
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   The Elbow Lake-Grant County Joint Airport Zoning Board, created and
established by joint action of the City Council, the Board of County
Commissioners of Grant County, and Board of Supervisors of Sanford Township,
pursuant to the provisions and authority of M.S. § 360.063, as it may be
amended from time to time, hereby finds and declares that:
   (A)   An airport hazard endangers the lives and property of users of the
Elbow Lake Municipal Airport, and property or occupants of land in its
vicinity, and also, if of the obstructive type, in effect reduces the size of
the area available for the landing, takeoff and maneuvering of aircraft, thus
tending to destroy or impair the utility of the Elbow Lake Municipal Airport
and the public investments therein;
   (B)   The creation or establishment of an airport hazard is a public
nuisance and an injury to the region served by the Elbow Lake Municipal
Airport;
   (C)   A heliport hazard endangers the lives and property of users of the
Prairie Ridge Hospital and Health Services Heliport, and property or occupants
of land in its vicinity; and also if of the obstructive type, in effect reduces
the size of the area available for the landing, takeoff, and maneuvering of
aircraft, thus tending to destroy or impair the utility of said Heliport;
   (D)   The creation or establishment of a heliport hazard is a public
nuisance and an injury to the region served by the Prairie Ridge Hospital and
Health Services Heliport;
   (E)   For the protection of the public health, safety, order, convenience,
prosperity and general wealth, and for the promotion of the most appropriate
use of land, it is necessary to prevent the creation or establishment of
airport and heliport hazards;
   (F)   The prevention of airport and heliport hazards should be accomplished,
to the extent legally possible, by the exercise of police power without
compensation;
   (G)   The prevention of the creation or establishment of airport and
heliport hazards and the elimination, removal, alteration, mitigation or
marking and lighting of existing airport and heliport hazards are public
purposes for which political subdivisions may raise and expend public funds;
and
   (H)   The Elbow Lake Municipal Airport and Prairie Ridge Hospital and Health
Services Heliport are essential public facilities that serve important public
transportation roles and provide a public good.
(Ord. passed 11-2-20)
§ 152.02 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Elbow Lake Municipal Airport and
Heliport Zoning Ordinance." Those sections of land affected by this chapter are
indicated in "Exhibit A," which is attached to the ordinance passed on November
2, 2020.
(Ord. passed 11-2-20)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRPORT. The Elbow Lake Municipal Airport located in Section 17, Township
129 North, Range 42 West, Grant County, Minnesota.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION. The established elevation of the highest point on the
usable landing area which is established to be 1,204 feet above mean sea level.
   AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure or tree or use of land which obstructs the
airspace required for, or is otherwise hazardous to, the flight of aircraft in
landing or taking off at the airport; and any use of land which is hazardous to
persons or property because of its proximity to the airport.
   APPROACH/DEPARTURE PATH. The flight track helicopters follow when landing at
or departing from a heliport. The approach/departure paths may be straight or
curved.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of
Transportation.
   CONFORMING USE. Any structure, tree or object of natural growth or use of
land that complies with all the applicable provisions of this chapter or any
amendments to this chapter.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof designed or used as a residence or
sleeping place of one or more persons.
   FINAL APPROACH AND TAKEOFF AREA (FATO). The area surrounding the touchdown
and liftoff area (TLOF) over which the pilot completes the final phase of the
approach to a hover or a landing and from which the pilot initiates takeoff.
The FATO elevation is the lowest elevation of the edge of the TLOF.
   HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this chapter and shown on the zoning maps, the datum shall be mean sea
level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   HELIPORT. The Prairie Ridge Hospital and Health Services Heliport located in
Elbow Lake, Minnesota.
   HELIPORT ELEVATION. The established elevation of the lowest point on the
usable landing area which is established to be 1,229 feet above mean sea level.
   HELIPORT HAZARD. Any structure, tree, or use of land which obstructs the
airspace required for, or is otherwise hazardous to, the flight of aircraft in
landing or taking off at the heliport; and any use of land which is hazardous
to persons or property because of its proximity to the heliport.
   LANDING AREA. The area of the airport used for the landing, taking off or
taxiing of aircraft.
   LANDING POSITION. An area, normally located in the center of an elongated
TLOF, on which the helicopter lands.
   LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL LOT. A single lot located in an area which is zoned
for single-family or two-family residences and in which the predominant land
use is such type of residences.
   LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE. A single-family or two-family home.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any pre-existing structure, tree, natural growth or use
of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or an
amendment hereto.
   NON-PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway with a straight-in instrument
approach procedure using either ground-based or satellite-based air navigation
facilities. A runway having an existing or planned straight-in instrument
approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only horizontal
guidance, and for which no precision approach facilities are planned or
indicated on an approved planning document.
   OBSTRUCTION TO AIR NAVIGATION. Any fixed or mobile object, including a
parked helicopter, of greater height than any of the heights or surfaces
presented in this chapter.
   OTHER-THAN-UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for and intended to
be used by jet aircraft or aircraft of more than 12,500 pounds maximum gross
weight; or is 4,900 feet or more in length.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association or body politic and includes a trustee, receiver,
assignee, administrator, executor, guardian or other representative.
   PLANNED. Proposed future airport developments that are so indicated on a
planning document having the approval of the Federal Aviation Administration,
Minnesota Department of Transportation Office of Aeronautics, and the City of
Elbow Lake.
   PRIMARY SURFACE. Heliport primary surface that coincides in size and shape
with the designated final approach and takeoff area (FATO) as defined in the
latest edition of the FAA Heliport Design Advisory Circular No. 150/5390-2C.
   PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway with an instrument approach procedure
utilizing an Instrument Landing System (ILS), a Microwave Landing System (MLS),
a Precision Approach Radar (PAR), a Transponder Landing System (TLS), or a
satellite-based system capable of operating to the same level of precision
guidance provided by the other included systems. Also, a runway for which a
precision instrument approach system is planned and is so indicated on an
approved planning document.
   RUNWAY. Any existing or planned paved surface or turf covered area of the
airport which is specifically designated and used for the landing and/or taking
off of aircraft.
   SAFETY AREA. A defined area on a heliport surrounding the FATO intended to
reduce the risk of damage to helicopters accidentally diverging from the FATO
and to protect people from injury and property from damage due to the operation
of the helicopter.
   SLOPE. An incline from the horizontal expressed in an arithmetic ratio of
horizontal magnitude to vertical magnitude.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ef785a5082e03bce271720e28ed5475d504007ad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1138.png]
 
      Slope = 3:1 = 3 feet horizontal to 1 foot vertical.
   STRUCTURE. An object constructed or installed by humans, including, but
without limitation, buildings, towers, smokestacks, earth formations and
overhead transmission lines.
   TOUCHDOWN AND LIFTOFF AREA (TLOF). A load-bearing, generally paved area,
normally centered in the FATO, on which the helicopter lands and/or takes off.
   TRAVERSE WAYS. For the purpose of determining height limits as set forth in
this chapter, shall be increased in height by 17 feet of interstate highways;
15 feet for all other public roadways; ten feet or the height of the highest
mobile object that would normally traverse the road, whichever is greater, for
private roads; 23 feet for railroads; and for waterways and all other traverse
ways not previously mentioned, an amount equal to the height of the highest
mobile object that would normally traverse it.
   TREE. Any object of natural growth.
   UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by
propeller-driven aircraft of 12,500 pounds maximum gross weight and less and is
less than 4,900 feet in length.
   VISUAL RUNWAY. A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures, with no straight-in instrument approach procedure
and no instrument designation indicated on an approved planning document.
   WATER SURFACES. The same meaning as land for the establishment of protected
zones.
(Ord. passed 11-2-20)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS; GENERAL
§ 152.15 AIRPORT AIRSPACE OBSTRUCTION ZONING.
   (A)   In order to carry out the purposes of this chapter, the following
airspace zones are hereby established: Primary Zone, Horizontal Zone, Conical
Zone, Approach Zone and Transitional Zone and whose locations and dimensions
are as follows:
      (1)   Primary Zone. All that land which lies directly under an imaginary
primary surface longitudinally centered on a runway and extending 200 feet
beyond each end of Runway 14/32 and ending at the end coordinates of Runway 11/
29. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the
elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline. The width of the
primary surface is 500 feet for Runway 14/32 and 250 feet for Runway 11/29.
      (2)   Horizontal Zone. All that land which lies directly under an
imaginary horizontal surface 150 feet above the established airport elevation
or a height of 1,354 feet above mean sea level, the perimeter of which is
constructed by swinging arcs of specified radii from the center of each end of
the primary surface of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by lines
tangent to those arcs. The radius of each arc is 5,000 feet.
      (3)   Conical Zone. All that land which lies directly under an imaginary
conical surface extending upward and outward from the periphery of the
horizontal surface at a slope of 20:1 for a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet
as measured outward from the periphery of the horizontal surface.
      (4)   Approach Zone. All that land which lies directly under an imaginary
approach surface longitudinally entered on the extended centerline at each end
of the runway. The inner edge of the approach surface is at the same width and
elevation as, and coincides with, the primary surface. The approach surface
inclines upward and outward at a slope of 20:1 for Runway 14/32 and Runway 11/
29. The approach surface expands uniformly to a width of 2,000 feet for Runway
14/32 at a distance of 5,000 feet, and then continues at the same rate of
divergence to the periphery of the conical surface. The approach surface
expands uniformly to a width of 1,250 feet for Runway 11/29 at a distance of
5,000 feet, then continues at the same rate of divergence to the periphery of
the conical surface.
      (5)   Transitional Zone. All that land which lies directly under an
imaginary transitional surface extending upward and outward at right angles to
the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope of 7:1 from
the sides of the primary surfaces and from the sides of the approach surfaces
until they intersect the horizontal surface or the conical surface.
   (B)   Height restrictions. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and
except as necessary and incidental to airport operations, no structure or tree
shall be constructed, altered, maintained or allowed to grow in any airspace
zone created in §
152.15(A) so as to project above any of the imaginary airspace surfaces
described in §
152.15(A). Where an area is covered by more than one height limitation, the
more restrictive limitations shall prevail.
   (C)   Boundary limitations. The airspace obstruction height zoning
restrictions set forth in this section shall apply for a distance not to exceed
one and one-half miles beyond the perimeter of the airport boundary and in that
portion of an airport hazard area under the approach zone for a distance not
exceeding two miles from the airport boundary.
(Ord. passed 11-2-20)
§ 152.16 HELIPORT AIRSPACE OBSTRUCTION ZONING.
   (A)   Airspace zones. In order to carry out the purpose of this chapter, as
set forth above, the following airspace zones are hereby established: Primary
Zone, Horizontal Zone, Conical Zone, Approach Zone, and Transitional Zone, and
whose locations and dimensions are as follows:
      (1)   Primary Zone. All that land which lies directly under an imaginary
primary surface that coincides in size and shape with the designated FATO. The
elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the elevation of
the lowest point on the TLOF.
      (2)   Approach Zone. All that land which lies directly under an imaginary
approach surface. The approach surface may be defined by a single magnetic
direction from the center of the heliport or as an arc from the center of the
heliport. The inner edge of the approach surface starts at the elevation of the
primary surface, at the end of the primary surface and extends a distance equal
to half of the FATO width on either side of the defining direction or arc. The
approach surface inclines upward at a slope of 8:1 and expands uniformly to a
width of 250 feet on either side of the defining direction or arc at a distance
of 4,000 feet from the primary surface. The approach surface may be curved and
if curved, the curve may not start until 300 feet from the primary surface and
the minimum turning radius must be at least 886 feet.
      (3)   Transitional Zone. All that land which lies directly under an
imaginary surface extending upward and outward at right angles to the approach
zone direction or arc centerline and centerline extended at a slope of 2:1 from
the sides of the primary surfaces and from the sides of the approach surfaces
for 250 feet from the edge of the primary surface and 250 feet from the
defining direction or arc.
      (4)   Lateral Extension Zones. All that land which lies directly under an
imaginary surface starting from the point where the approach/departure path
meets the primary surface, extending upward at the same slope as the approach/
departure path and expanding uniformly outward to be 100 feet wide at 2,000
feet from the primary surface. Lateral extensions may be used to mitigate
obstructions in Transitional Zones.
   (B)   Height restrictions. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, and
except as necessary and incidental to heliport operations, no structure or tree
shall be constructed, altered, maintained, or allowed to grow in any airspace
zone created in §
152.16(A) so as to project above any of the imaginary air space surfaces
described in said §
152.16(A) hereof. Where an area is covered by more than one height limitation,
the more restrictive limitation shall prevail.
   (C)   Boundary limitations. The heliport airspace obstruction height zoning
restrictions set forth in this section shall apply for a distance not to exceed
one mile beyond the perimeter of the heliport boundary.
(Ord. passed 11-2-20)
§ 152.17 LAND USE SAFETY ZONING.
   (A)   Safety zone boundaries. In order to carry out the purpose of this
chapter, to restrict the uses which may be hazardous to the operational safety
of aircraft operating to and from the Elbow Lake Municipal Airport and the
Prairie Ridge Hospital and Health Services Heliport, and to limit population
and building density in the runway approach areas, thereby creating sufficient
open space to protect life and property in case of an accident, the following
land use safety zones are hereby created and established:
      (1)   Airport Safety Zone A. All that land in that portion of the
approach zones of a runway, as defined in §
152.15(A), which extends outward from the end of the primary surface a distance
equal to two-thirds of the planned length of the runway, which distance shall
be 2,667 feet for Runway 14/32 and 2,750 feet for Runway 11/29 as identified on
the Zoning Ordinance Map.
      (2)   Airport Safety Zone A-1. All that land in that portion of the
approach zones of a runway, as defined in §
152.15(A), which extends outward from the end of the primary surface a distance
equal to two-thirds of the planned length of the runway, which distance shall
be 2,750 feet for Runway 11/29 only, as identified on the Zoning Ordinance Map.
      (3)   Airport Safety Zone B. All that land in that portion of the
approach zones of a runway, as defined in §
152.15(A), which extends outward from Safety Zone A a distance equal to one-
third of the planned length of the runway, which distance shall be 1,333 feet
for Runway 14/32 and 1,375 feet for Runway 11/29, as identified on the Zoning
Ordinance Map.
      (4)   Airport Safety Zone C. All that land which is enclosed within the
perimeter of the horizontal zone, as defined in §
152.15(A), and which is not included in Safety Zone A, Safety Zone A-1, or
Safety Zone B, as identified on the Zoning Ordinance Map.
      (5)   Heliport Ground Impact Area. All land within an area that extends
200 feet from the center of the heliport in all directions, as identified on
the Zoning Ordinance Map.
      (6)   Heliport Inner Approach Area. All land in that portion of the
Approach Zones, Transitional Zones and Lateral Extension Zones, where they are
utilized, between 200 feet from the center of the heliport to 1,000 feet from
the center of the heliport, as identified on the Zoning Ordinance Map.
      (7)   Heliport Outer Area. All land within 4,100 feet of the center of
the heliport that is not included in the other two areas, as identified on the
Zoning Ordinance Map.
   (B)   Use restrictions.
      (1)   Generally. Subject at all times to the height restrictions set
forth in §§
152.15(B) and
152.16(B), no use shall be made of any land in any of the safety zones, defined
in §
152.17(A) above, which creates or causes interference with the operation of
radio or electronic facilities on the airport or heliport or with radio or
electronic communications between the airport or heliport and aircraft, makes
it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport or heliport lights and
other lights, results in glare in the eyes of the pilots using the airport or
heliport, impairs visibility in the vicinity of the airport or heliport or
otherwise endangers the landing, taking off or maneuvering of aircraft.
      (2)   Airport Safety Zone A. Subject at all times to the height
restrictions set forth in §
152.15(B) and to the general restrictions contained in §
152.17(B)(1) above, areas designated as Zone A shall contain no buildings,
temporary structures, exposed transmission lines, or other similar above-ground
land use structural hazards, except as necessary and incidental to airport
operations, and shall be restricted to those uses which will not create,
attract or bring together an assembly of persons thereon. Permitted uses may
include, but are not limited to, agriculture (seasonal crops) horticulture,
animal husbandry, raising of livestock, wildlife habitat, light outdoor
recreation (non-spectator), cemeteries and auto parking without light standards
or other above ground structures.
      (3)   Airport Safety Zone A-1. Subject at all times to the height
restrictions set forth in §
152.15(B) and to the general restrictions contained in §
152.17(B)(1) above, areas designated as Zone A-l shall contain no temporary
structures, exposed transmission lines, or other similar above-ground land use
structural hazards, except as necessary and incidental to airport operations,
and shall be restricted to those uses which will not create, attract or bring
together an assembly of persons thereon. Permitted uses may include, but are
not limited to, agriculture (seasonal crops) horticulture, animal husbandry,
raising of livestock, wildlife habitat, light outdoor recreation (non-
spectator), cemeteries and auto parking without light standards or other above
ground structures; and, lot/plat single family dwellings in the City of Elbow
Lake, Minnesota, Code of Ordinances, Title XV: Land Usage,
Chapter 153 Zoning, "Zoning and Subdivision Ordinance, Elbow Lake, Minnesota;"
and, the restrictions set forth below:
         (a)   Each use shall be on a site whose area shall not be less than
three acres;
         (b)   Each use shall not create, attract, or bring together a site
population that would exceed 15 times that of the site acreage;
         (c)   Each site shall have no more than one building plot upon which
any number of structures may be erected.
         (d)   A building plot shall be a single, uniform, and non-contrived
area, whose shape is uncomplicated and whose area shall not exceed the
following minimum ratios with respect to the total site area:
 
Site area at But less than Ratio of site area Building plot area Maximum site
least        (acres)       to building plot   (square feet)      population
(acres)                    area
3            4             12:1               10,900             45
4            6             10:1               17,400             60
6            10            8:1                32,600             90
10           20            6:1                72,500             150
20           and up        4:1                218,000            300
 
         (e)   The following uses are specifically prohibited in Zone A-1:
churches, hospitals, schools, theaters, stadiums, hotels, motels, trailer
courts, campgrounds and other places of public or semi-public assembly.
      (4)   Airport Safety Zone B. Subject at all times to the height
restrictions set forth in §
152.15(B) and to the general restrictions contained in §
152.17(B)(1) above, areas designated as Zone B shall be restricted in use as
follows:
         (a)   Each use shall be on a site whose area shall not be less than
three acres;
         (b)   Each use shall not create, attract, or bring together a site
population that would exceed 15 times that of the site acreage;
         (c)   Each site shall have no more than one building plot upon which
any number of structures may be erected.
         (d)   A building plot shall be a single, uniform, and non-contrived
area, whose shape is uncomplicated and whose area shall not exceed the
following minimum ratios with respect to the total site area:
Site area at But less than Ratio of site area Building plot area Maximum site
least        (acres)       to building plot   (square feet)      population
(acres)                    area
Site area at But less than Ratio of site area Building plot area Maximum site
least        (acres)       to building plot   (square feet)      population
(acres)                    area
3            4             12:1               10,900             45
4            6             10:1               17,400             60
6            10            8:1                32,600             90
10           20            6:1                72,500             150
20           and up        4:1                218,000            300
 
         (e)   The following uses are specifically prohibited in Zone B:
churches, hospitals, schools, theaters, stadiums, hotels, motels, trailer
courts, campgrounds and other places of public or semi-public assembly.
      (5)   Airport Safety Zone C. Zone C is subject only to the height
restrictions set forth in §
152.15(B) and to the general restrictions contained in §
152.17(B)(1) above.
      (6)   Heliport Ground Impact Area. Subject at all times to the height
restrictions set forth in §
152.16(B) and to the general restrictions contained in §
152.17(B)(1), areas designated as Ground Impact Areas shall be able to be
cleared of vehicle and pedestrian traffic. No construction or agricultural
activities may occur within this zone.
      (7)   Inner Approach Area. Subject at all times to the height
restrictions set forth in §
152.16(B) and to the general restrictions contained in §
152.17(B)(1), in areas designated as Inner Approach Areas, no construction may
occur without evaluation of the impact to the heliport surfaces and helicopter
operations. Annual agricultural production activities shall be permitted when
approved by the Airport and Heliport Zoning Administrator.
      (8)   Outer Area. Subject at all times to the height restrictions set
forth in §
152.16(B) and to the general restrictions contained in §
152.17(B)(1), in areas designated as Outer Approach Areas, no construction may
occur without evaluation of the impact to the heliport surfaces and helicopter
operations. Annual agricultural production activities shall be permitted when
approved by the Airport and Heliport Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Boundary limitation. The land use zoning restrictions set forth in
this section shall apply for a distance not to exceed one mile beyond the
perimeter of the airport and heliport boundaries and in that portion of an
airport hazard area under the Approach Zone for a distance not exceeding two
miles from the airport boundary.
(Ord. passed 11-2-20)
§ 152.18 AIRPORT AND HELIPORT ZONING MAP.
   The several zones herein established are shown on the Elbow Lake Municipal
Airport and Prairie Ridge Hospital and Health Services Heliport Zoning Map,
consisting of two sheets, prepared by Bollig, Inc. (Bollig), and dated August
2019, attached to the ordinance passed on November 2, 2020 and made a part
hereof, which map together with such amendments thereto as may from time to
time be made, and all notations, references, elevations, data, zone boundaries
and other information thereon, shall be and the same is hereby adopted as part
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-2-20)
§ 152.19 NONCONFORMING USES.
   The regulations prescribed by this chapter shall not be construed to require
the removal, lowering or other changes or alteration of any structure or tree
not conforming to the regulations as of the effective date of this chapter and
the amendments contained herein, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of
any nonconforming use. Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the
construction, alteration or intended use of any structure, the construction or
alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date of this chapter and
its amendments and is diligently prosecuted and completed within two years
thereof.
(Ord. passed 11-2-20)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.30 PERMITS.
   (A)   Future uses. Except as specifically provided in divisions (A)(1) and
(2) hereunder, no material change shall be made in the use of land and no
structure shall be erected, altered, or otherwise established in any zone
hereby created unless a permit therefore shall have been applied for and
granted by the Zoning Administrator hereinafter provided for. Each application
for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which the permit is desired, with
sufficient particularity to permit it to conform to the regulations herein
prescribed. If the determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be
granted.
      (1)   However, a permit for a tree or structure of less than 75 feet of
vertical height above the ground shall not be required in the horizontal and
conical zones or in approach and transitional zones beyond a horizontal
distance of 4,200 feet from each end of the runway or in the Heliport Outer
Area, except when the tree or structure, because of terrain, land contour or
topographic features would extend above the height limit prescribed for the
respective zone.
      (2)   Nothing contained in this foregoing exception shall be constructed
as permitting or intending to permit any construction, alteration or growth of
any structure or tree in excess of any of the height limitations established by
§
152.15 and the land use limitations set forth in §
152.16 and §
152.17.
   (B)   Existing uses. Before any existing use or structure may be replaced,
substantially altered or repaired, or rebuilt within any zone established
herein, a permit must be secured authorizing the replacement, change or repair.
No permit shall be granted that would allow the establishment or creation of an
airport or heliport hazard or permit a nonconforming use, structure or tree to
become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on the effective date of
this chapter or any amendments thereto, or than it is when the application for
a permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for such a permit shall
be granted.
   (C)   Nonconforming uses: abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the Zoning
Administrator determines that a nonconforming structure or tree has been
abandoned or more than 80% torn down, physically deteriorated or decayed, no
permit shall be granted that would allow the structure or tree to exceed the
applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations.
Whether application is made for a permit under this section or not, the Zoning
Administrator may order the owner of the abandoned or partially destroyed
nonconforming structure, at his or her own expense, to lower, remove,
reconstruct or equip the same in the manner necessary to conform to the
provisions of this chapter. In the event the owner of the nonconforming
structure shall neglect or refuse to comply with such order for ten days after
receipt of written notice of the order, the Zoning Administrator may, by
appropriate legal action, proceed to have the abandoned or partially destroyed
nonconforming structure lowered, removed, reconstructed or equipped and assess
the cost and expense thereof against the land on which the structure is or was
located. Unless such an assessment is paid within 90 days from the service of
notice thereof on the owner of the land, the sum shall bear interest at the
rate of 8% per annum from the date the cost and expense are incurred until
paid, and shall be collected in the same manner as are general taxes.
(Ord. passed 11-2-20)
§ 152.31 VARIANCES.
   Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any structure, permit
the growth of any tree or use his or her property not in accordance with the
regulations prescribed in this chapter may apply to the Board of Adjustment,
hereinafter provided, for a variance from the regulations. The Zoning
Administrator or the Board of Adjustment may request review of a variance
application by the MN/DOT Airport Zoning Administrator prior to making a
decision. If a person applies for a variance by certified mail to the members
of the Board and the Board fails to grant or deny the variance within four
months after the last member receives the application, the variance shall be
deemed granted by the Board. When the variance is granted by reason for the
failure of the Board to act on the variance, the person receiving the variance
shall notify the Board and the Commissioner, by certified mail, that the
variance has been granted. The applicant shall include a copy of the original
application for the variance with this notice to the Commissioner. The variance
shall be effective for 60 days after this notice is received by the
Commissioner subject to any action taken by the Commissioner pursuant to M.S. §
360.063, subd. 6a. Such variances shall be allowed where it is duly found that
a literal application or enforcement of the regulations would result in
practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship and relief granted would not be
contrary to the public interest, but do substantial justice and be in
accordance with the spirit of this chapter; provided any variance so allowed
may be subject to any reasonable conditions that the Board of Adjustment or
Commissioner may deem necessary to effectuate the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-2-20)
§ 152.32 HAZARD MARKING AND LIGHTING.
   (A)   Nonconforming uses. The owner of any nonconforming structure or tree
is hereby required to permit the installation, operation and maintenance
thereon of markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the
airport or the heliport the presence of the airspace hazards. The markers and
lights shall be installed, operated and maintained at the expense of the City
of Elbow Lake for the airport and Prairie Ridge Hospital and Health Services
for the heliport.
   (B)   Permits and variances. Any permit or variance deemed advisable to
effectuate the purpose of this chapter and be reasonable in the circumstances,
and granted by the Zoning Administrator or Board of Adjustment as the case may
be, shall require the owner of the structure or tree in question, at his or her
own expense, to install, operate and maintain thereon the markers and lights as
may be necessary to indicate to pilots the presence of an airport or heliport
hazard.
(Ord. passed 11-2-20)
§ 152.33 AIRPORT AND HELIPORT ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the Elbow Lake City Zoning Administrator to
administer and enforce the regulations prescribed herein. Application for
permits and variances shall be made to the City Zoning Administrator upon a
form furnished by him or her. Permit application shall be promptly considered
and granted or denied by the City Zoning Administrator in accordance with the
regulations prescribed herein. Variance applications shall be forthwith
transmitted by the City Zoning Administrator for action by the Board of
Adjustment, hereinafter provided for.
(Ord. passed 11-2-20)
§ 152.34 AIRPORT AND HELIPORT ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Establishment. The Elbow Lake Board of Adjustment shall serve as the
Board of Adjustment for the Elbow Lake Airport and Heliport Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   Powers. The Board of Adjustment shall have and exercise the following
powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the Zoning Administrator in the enforcement of this
chapter;
      (2)   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this chapter
upon which the Board of Adjustment, under regulations, may be required to pass;
and
      (3)   To hear and decide specific variances.
   (C)   Procedures.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for its governance and
procedure in harmony with the provisions of this chapter. Meetings of the Board
of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other
times as the Board of Adjustment may determine. The Chairperson or, in his or
her absence, the Acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All hearings of the Board of Adjustment shall be
public. The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing
the vote of each member upon each question or, if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall immediately be filed in the office of the
Zoning Administrator and shall be a public record.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall make written findings of fact and
conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal
conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming or modifying any order,
requirement, decision or determination which comes before it under the
provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board of
Adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision or
determination of the Zoning Administrator or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this chapter or
to affect any variation in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-2-20)
§ 152.35 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected by any decision of the
Zoning Administrator made in its administration of this chapter may appeal to
the Board of Adjustment. The appeals may also be made by any governing body of
a municipality, county or airport or heliport zoning board, which is of the
opinion that a decision of the Zoning Administrator is an improper application
of this chapter as it concerns the governing body or board.
   (B)   All appeals hereunder must be taken within 30 days of the Zoning
Administrator's decision, by filing with the Zoning Administrator a notice of
appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The Zoning Administrator shall forthwith
transmit to the Board of Adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon
which the action appealed from was taken. In addition, any person aggrieved, or
any taxpayer affected by any decision of the Zoning Administrator made in its
administration of this chapter who desires to appeal such decision shall submit
an application for a variance, by certified mail, to the members of the Board
of Adjustment in the manner set forth in M.S. § 360.068, subd. 2.
   (C)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Board of
Adjustment, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reasons
of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in its opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed except by order of the Board of Adjustment on notice to the Zoning
Administrator and on due cause shown.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing any party may appear
in person or by agent or by attorney.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment may, in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may make the order,
requirement, decision or determination, as may be appropriate under the
circumstances, and to that and shall have all the powers of the Zoning
Administrator.
(Ord. passed 11-2-20)
§ 152.36 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the Board
of Adjustment, or of any action of the commissioner taken under M.S. § 360.063,
subd. 6 or 6a, or any governing body of a municipality, county or joint airport
zoning board, which believes that a decision of the Board of Adjustment or
action of the Commissioner is illegal may appeal in accordance with M.S. Ch.
14.
(Ord. passed 11-2-20)
§ 152.37 CONFLICTS.
   Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this chapter and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict is with respect to the height of structures or
trees, the use of land or any other matter, the more stringent limitation or
regulation shall govern and prevail.
(Ord. passed 11-2-20)
§ 152.38 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   In any case in which the provision of this chapter, although generally
reasonable, is held by a court to interfere with the use or enjoyment of a
particular structure or parcel of land to such an extent, or to be so onerous
in their application to such a structure or parcel of land, as to constitute a
taking or deprivation of that property in violation of the constitution of this
state or the Constitution of the United States, such holding shall not affect
the application of this chapter as to other structures and parcels of land, and
to this end the provisions of this chapter are declared severable.
   (B)   Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared by the
courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the chapter as a whole or any part thereof other than the parts so
declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. passed 11-2-20)
§ 152.39 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect after publication. Copies thereof shall be
filed with the Commissioner through the Office of Aeronautics, the State of
Minnesota, and the Grant County Recorder.
(Ord. passed 11-2-20)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Every person who shall construct, establish, substantially change, alter or
repair any existing structure or use, or permit the growth of any tree without
having complied with the provisions of this chapter or who, having been granted
a permit or variance under the provisions of this chapter, shall construct,
establish, substantially change, or substantially alter or repair any existing
growth or structure or permit the growth of any tree, except as permitted by
such permit or variance, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished
by a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for not more than 90 days or
by both. Each day a violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate
offense. The Airport and Heliport Zoning Administrator may enforce all
provisions of this chapter through such proceedings for injunctive relief and
other relief as may be proper under M.S. § 360.073 and other applicable law.
(Ord. passed 11-2-20)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Purpose
   
153.003   Legal authority
   
153.004   Compliance
   
153.005   Definitions
Zoning Use Districts
   
153.015   Description
   
153.016   Boundaries
   
153.017   Interpretation
District Requirements
   
153.030   Agricultural (A), (AS)
   
153.031   Residential A (RA), (RAS)
   
153.032   Residential B (RBS)
   
153.033   Commercial (CA)
   
153.034   Commercial (CB)
   
153.035   Industrial (I)
   
153.036   Commercial-Industrial (CI)
General Requirements - All Districts
   
153.050   Residential yard storage
   
153.051   Refuse
   
153.052   Screening
   
153.053   Landscaping
   
153.054   Parking
   
153.055   Loading and unloading
   
153.056   Non-conforming uses
   
153.057   Mobile homes
   
153.058   Camp sites
   
153.059   Abandonments
   
153.060   Exemptions
General Requirements - Shoreland Area
   
153.075   Sanitation standards
   
153.076   Shoreland alterations
   
153.077   Non-conforming uses
   
153.078   Planned unit development
   
153.079   Exemptions
Subdivision Regulations
General Provisions
   153.085   Purpose
   
153.086   Legal authority
   
153.087   General requirements
Subdivision Regulations
Procedures
   
153.095   Pre-application meeting
   
153.096   Preliminary plat
   
153.097   Final plat
Subdivision Regulations
Presentation Requirements
   
153.105   Preliminary plat
   
153.106   Final plat
Subdivision Regulations
Design Standards
   
153.115   Streets
   
153.116   Easements
   
153.117   Blocks
   
153.118   Lots
   
153.119   Natural features
   
153.120   Planned unit development
Subdivision Regulations
Required Improvements
   
153.135   Requirements
   
153.136   Monuments
   
153.137   Streets
   
153.138   Water supply facilities
   
153.139   Sanitary sewerage
   
153.140   Storm drainage
   
153.141   Street name signs
   
153.142   Specifications
   
153.143   Financing
   
153.144   Dedications
Subdivision Regulations
Administration
   
153.155   Administrator
   
153.156   Building Permits
   
153.157   Appeals
   
153.158   Variance
   
153.159   Special use permits
   
153.160   Amendments and changes
   
153.161   Enforcement and penalties
   
153.162   Metes and bounds description
   
Appendix A:  On-Site Parking Requirements
   
Appendix B: On-Site Loading and Unloading Requirements
   
Appendix C: Absorption Area Requirements for Private Residences and Other
Establishments
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be entitled: “Zoning and Subdivision Ordinance, Elbow
Lake, Minnesota”.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the health, safety, and general
welfare of the people of the city. To this end, this chapter regulates the use
and development of the incorporated area and shorelands of public waters of the
city.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.003 LEGAL AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by the laws of
M.S. § 379.462, as it may be amended from time to time, and in furtherance of
the policies declared in M.S. Chapters 105, 115, and 116, as they may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.004 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure located in the city shall be erected or altered which does not
comply with the regulations of this chapter, nor shall any structure or
premises be used for any purpose other than a use permitted by this chapter. No
building permit shall be issued by any governing official for the construction
of any building, structure or improvement on any land henceforth subdivided
until all requirements of this chapter have been fully complied with.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE or STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use of
structure.
   AGRICULTURAL. The use of land for agricultural purposes, including farming,
dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture and
animal and poultry husbandry and the necessary accessory uses for packing,
treating or storing the produce; provided, however, that the operation of any
such accessory uses shall be secondary to that of the normal agricultural
activities.
   AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE. Any structure existing or erected and used
principally for agricultural purposes, with the exception of dwelling units.
   ALLEYS. Any strip of land publicly or privately owned, less than 24 feet in
width between property lines, set aside for public vehicular access to abutting
property.
   ARTERIAL STREET or HIGHWAY. A street or highway of considerable continuity
designed primarily to serve as an intercommunication link between various
sectors of the area and beyond (such as from within the city to outlying
areas).
   BLOCK. The property abutting on one side of a street and lying between the
two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets or railroad right-of-ways or
unsubdivided acreage.
   BOAT HOUSE. A structure not more than one story high used for storage of
boats, boat motors, boating equipment, life jackets, gas cans, water skies, or
marina equipment.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a building
drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other
drainage pipes inside the walls of any building and conveys the same to the
building sewer.
   BUILDING LINE. That line measured across the width of the lot at the point
where the main structure is placed in accordance with setback provisions.
   BUILDING SEWER. The part of the horizontal portion of the building drainage
system extending from the building drain to its connection with the septic tank
and carrying the sewage of but one building.
   CLEAR-CUTTING. The removal of an entire stand of trees.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street designed to serve the internal traffic
circulation of a recognized land use area which distributes and collects with
“arterial streets” or “highways”.
   COMMERCIAL. Business activity of a normal wholesale or retail nature and
including such travel related facilities as automobile accessory stores and
gasoline filling stations, bowling alley, cafe (including drive-in eating
establishments), dairy product stores, self-service laundry, liquor stores,
motel, hotels, restaurant and resorts and related recreation uses.
   CROWDING POTENTIAL. The ratio of total acreage of a water body to shore
miles.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A comparatively short street having but one end open to traffic
and the other end being permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
   DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES. Those goals determined from time to time in plan or
policy form as part of the city's comprehensive planning program that indicates
how the city wishes to develop itself in line with orderly and logical
direction.
   DWELLING. A house.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached residence designed for/or occupied by
one family only.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A residence designed for/or occupied by two families
only, with separate housekeeping and cooking facilities for each.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A residence designed for/or occupied by three or
more families, with separate housekeeping and cooking facilities for each.
   ESTIMATED VALUE. Value determined by multiplying square footage of total
floor area of a structure times the most current State of Minnesota valuation
data.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a single housekeeping unit and using
common cooking facilities; provided that, unless all members are related by
blood or marriage, no such FAMILY shall contain over five persons.
   FLOODPLAIN. The areas adjoining a watercourse which have been or hereafter
may be covered by the regional flood.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of the watercourse and those portions of the adjoining
flood plains which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the regional
flood.
   GRADING. Changing the natural topography of the land.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any use customarily conducted entirely within a dwelling
and carried on by the inhabitants therein, which use is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not change
the character thereof.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A sewage disposal system, other than a
public or community system, which receives sewage from an individual
establishment. Unless otherwise indicated, the word “system” as it appears in
this chapter, means “INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.”
   INDUSTRIAL. Any activity engaged in the cleaning, servicing, testing, repair
or storage of goods or products.
   LOCAL STREETS. A street designed for access to abutting property and not
intended to facilitate through traffic.
   LOT. Land occupied or to be occupied by a building and its accessory
buildings or by a dwelling group and its accessory buildings, together with
such open spaces as are required under the provisions of this chapter, having
not less than the minimum area required by this chapter for a building site in
the district in which such lot is situated and having its principal frontage on
a street.
   LOT DEPTH. The distance between front and rear lot lines. The rear lot line
shall be that line which abuts any alley. Where no lines of the lot abut an
alley, the average of the longest sides of the lot shall be the depth. If a lot
is square and no side thereof abuts an alley, then the depth shall be the sides
of the lot which run perpendicular to the front of any building existing or
hereafter constructed on the lot.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance between straight side lot lines measured at a point
equidistant from the front and rear lot lines.
   MOBILE HOME. A movable living unit designed for year-round occupancy.
   MOBILE HOME COURT. A parcel of land under single ownership which has been
planned and improved for the placement of mobile homes for non-transient use.
   MUNICIPALITY. Any city.
   NON-CONFORMING USES. Any use of land established before the effective date
of a municipal ordinance which does not conform to the use restrictions of a
particular zoning district. This should not be confused with substandard
dimensions of a conforming use.
   NORMAL HIGH WATER MARK. A mark delineating the highest water level which has
been maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape.
   PARKING SPACE, ON-SITE. An on-site parking space shall comprise not less
than 180 square feet of parking stall plus necessary maneuvering space. Space
for maneuvering incidental to parking or unparking shall not encroach upon any
public way. Every ON-SITE PARKING SPACE shall be accessible from a public way.
   PERCOLATION TESTER. An individual who is certified by Grant County who has
presented bona fide evidence to the Zoning Administrator that he successfully
completed a course in soil percolation testing.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A type of development which may incorporate a
variety of land uses planned and developed as a unit.
   PLAT. The map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider’s plan for
subdivision is presented to the City Council for approval.
   PUBLIC WATERS. Any waters of the state which serve a beneficial public
purpose, as defined in M.S. § 150.37, Subd. 6 as it may be amended from time to
time.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur with an average frequency in the magnitude of the 100 year
recurrence interval.
   SETBACKS. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure and the normal
high water mark or between a structure and a road or highway right-of-way line.
   SHORELAND. Land located within the following distances from public waters:
      (1)   1,000 feet from normal high water mark of the lake, pond or
flowage; and
      (2)   300 feet from a river or stream, or the landward extent of a flood
plain designated by ordinance on such river or stream, whichever is greater;
however, the practical limits of shorelands may be less whenever the waters
involved are bounded by natural topographic divides which extend landward from
the waters for lesser distances.
   SIGN. Any words, lettering, parts of letters, figures, numerals, phrases,
sentences, emblems, devices, designs, trade names or trade marks by which
anything is publicized and such as are commonly used to designate an
individual, a firm, an association, a corporation, a profession, a business or
a commodity or product and which is visible from any public street and used to
attract the attention of the public.
   SPECIAL USE. A use which is permitted within a zoning district only when
allowed by the City Council or their legally designated agent if certain
conditions are met which eliminate or minimize the incompatibility with other
permitted uses of the district.
   STRUCTURE. An object constructed or installed by man, including, but without
limitations, buildings, towers, smoke-stacks, and overhead transmission lines.
   SUBDIVISION. Improved or unimproved land or lands which are divided for the
purpose of sale or lease, or divided successfully within a five year period for
the purpose of sale or lease, into three or more lots or parcels of less than
five acres each, contiguous in area and which are under common ownership or
control.
   SUBSTANDARD USE. Any use of shorelands existing prior to the date of
enactment of any municipal ordinance which is permitted within the applicable
zoning district but does not meet the minimum lot area and length of water
frontage, structure setbacks, or other dimensional standards of the ordinance.
   VARIANCE. Any modification or variation of official controls where it is
determined that, because of hardships, strict enforcement of the official
controls is impractical.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
ZONING USE DISTRICTS
§ 153.015 DESCRIPTION.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, the city is hereby divided into the
following zoning use districts:
OUTSIDE SHORELAND MANAGEMENT AREA WITHIN SHORELAND MANAGEMENT AREA
DESIGNATION ABBREVIATION          DESIGNATION ABBREVIATION
OUTSIDE SHORELAND MANAGEMENT AREA WITHIN SHORELAND MANAGEMENT AREA
DESIGNATION  ABBREVIATION         DESIGNATION  ABBREVIATION
Agricultural    (A)            Agricultural    (AS)
Residence A     (RA)           Residence A     (RAS)
Commercial A    (CA)           Residence B     (RBS)
Commercial B    (CB)              --        --
Industrial      (I)               --        --
Commercial-     (CI)              --        --
Industrial
 
   (B)   A brief description of the zoning use districts is as follows:
      (1)   Agricultural (A). Rural land lying outside the area of apparent
urban development that is reserved for agricultural purposes. Provision will be
made for single-family development as part of a farmstead. Passive recreational
development and cemeteries would also be permitted. Provision for change of
land use would be permitted subject to careful review by the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   Residence A (RA). Single-family and duplex residences at a
comparatively low concentration of development, together with such uses as
schools, parks, churches and certain public facilities. Provisions would also
be made for customary home occupations and professional offices in the home.
Residential uses permitted in the (A) district would also be permitted in the
(RA) district.
      (3)   Residence B (RB); (RBS). Uses permitted in the (RA) district at a
higher density of development, with the inclusion of apartment residences.
      (4)   Commercial A (CA). Downtown area, permitting offices and a full
range of business and commercial enterprises.
      (5)   Industrial (I). All industrial uses after local review to assure
that the proposed industry would be protected from and compatible with
neighboring uses in the same and adjoining districts. The utilization of this
district is applicable to existing and proposed industrial areas. It provides
for the establishment of detailed restrictions on proposed development and
permits the building of an area for industrial use that possesses the character
of an “industrial park” (reservation of land, programmed provision of public
facilities and guided development).
      (6)   Commercial-Industrial (CI). This zone is intended to accommodate
both (CB) and (I) uses with special emphasis on planned sites with off-street
parking, loading and circulation facilities. All industrial uses are subject to
the requirements of the (I) district and all commercial uses are subject to the
requirements of the (CB) district.
   (C)   The boundaries of the Shoreland Management Area are hereby established
at 1,000 feet from the normal high water mark of Elekkefjord Lake. The
Shoreland Management Area shall include the following zoning districts:
      (1)   Agricultural (AS)
      (2)   Residence A (RAS)
      (3)   Residence B (RBS)
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.016 BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The zoning use districts are as shown on the zoning map which,
together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference
and declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (B)   The boundaries of said districts shall be as shown upon the map
attached to and made part of this chapter which shall be designated as the
“zoning map.” The said map and all notations, references and other things shown
thereon shall be as much a part of this chapter as if the matters and things
shown by this map were all fully described herein.
   (C)   The map shall be duly authenticated by the city. It shall by kept and
maintained by the Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer, which copy shall be the final
authority; distances not specifically indicated on the map shall be determined
by the scale of the map. The official zoning map shall be registered with the
County Register of Deeds. Each zoning map amendment shall be registered with
the County Register of Deeds. Each zoning map amendment shall also be
registered.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.017 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
health, safety, order, convenience, prosperity and general welfare. It is not
intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way to impair or
interfere with any existing provision of laws or ordinances or any rules,
regulations or permits previously adopted or issued or which shall be adopted
pursuant to law relating to the use of buildings or premises; nor is it
intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul easements,
covenants or other agreements between parties; provided however, that where
this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or
premises than are imposed or required by such existing provisions of law or
ordinance or by such rules or regulations or by such easements, covenants, or
agreements, the provision of this chapter shall control.
   (B)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the zoning map, the Planning Commission shall
interpret the district boundaries.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.030 AGRICULTURAL (A), (AS).
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   All uses commonly classed as agricultural, with no restrictions as
to operation or maintenance of vehicles or machinery as are incident to the
uses; and
      (2)   Single-family dwellings (not to include mobile homes) and their
normal accessory buildings.
   (B)   Uses by special permit.
      (1)   Churches, chapels, temples and synagogues including Sunday schools,
convents and parish houses meeting the requirements of the district;
      (2)   Parks, playgrounds and elementary schools;
      (3)   The offices of members of recognized professions, provided the
professions are carried on in their respective residences;
      (4)   Home occupations, provided that no articles for sale shall be
displayed so as to be visible from streets or roadways;
      (5)   Accessory buildings other than private garages and customary
agricultural structures;
      (6)   Junior and senior high schools and incidental uses when situated on
the same site or unit of property;
      (7)   Cemeteries; and
      (8)   Camp sites, resorts and mobile home courts.
   (C)   Height limit. Non-agricultural structures shall not exceed a height of
35 feet.
   (D)   Lot requirements, (A).
      (1)   No dwelling unit shall be constructed in the district on a lot of
less than one acre in area or on a lot of less than 150 feet in width.
      (2)   Each lot shall have a front yard of not less than 30 feet.
      (3)   Each lot shall have a rear lot of not less than 30 feet.
      (4)   Each lot shall have a side yard along each side of each building;
the sum of the width of the two side yards shall not be less than 30% of the
width of the lot divided equally between the two yards.
      (5)   In cases where an accessory structure is attached to the main
building or within five feet therefrom, it shall comply in all respects with
the requirements of this chapter applicable to the main building. An accessory
building, unless attached to and made a part of the main building as above
provided, shall not be closer than three feet to any lot line or public right-
of-way, except that the accessory buildings shall not encroach upon required
front yards.
   (E)   Lot requirements, (AS).
      (1)   Structures must be elevated at least three feet above the ordinary
high water mark.
      (2)   No structure shall be closer than 50 feet in sewered areas, and 75
feet in non- sewered areas from the ordinary high water mark.
      (3)   No structure shall be placed nearer than 50 feet from the right-of-
way line of any federal, state or county trunk highway; or 30 feet from the
right-of-way line of any municipal street.
      (4)   The total area of all impervious structures on a lot shall not
exceed 30% of the total lot area.   
   (F)   Parking requirements. As set forth in
Appendix A.
   (G)   Loading and unloading requirements. As set forth in
Appendix B.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.031 RESIDENTIAL A (RA), (RAS).
   (A)   Uses permitted, (RA).
      (1)   Single-family dwellings (not to include mobile homes) and their
normal accessory buildings;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Churches, chapels, temples and synagogues including Sunday schools,
convents and parish houses meeting the requirements of the district;
      (4)   Parks, playgrounds and elementary schools;
      (5)   The offices of members of recognized professions, such as doctors
of medicine and dentistry, chiropractors and engineers, lawyers and architects,
provided such professions are carried on in the respective residences; and
      (6)   Home occupations in the residence, provided that the occupations
are carried on in the main building, and provided further that not more than
25% of the floor space of the residence is used for this purpose, and that no
articles for sale be displayed so as to be visible from the street.
   (B)   Uses by special permit, (RA).
      (1)   Accessory buildings other than private garages;
      (2)   Hospitals or sanatoriums, philanthropic or eleemosynary
institutions, except correctional institutions and animal hospitals. Any
building permitted to be used shall be set back not less than 50 feet from any
lot or street line and then the appearance of the building shall be in
appropriate harmony with the residential character of the area;
      (3)   Junior and senior high schools and incidental uses when situated on
the same site or unit of property; and
      (4)   Cemeteries and funeral homes.
   (C)   Height limit, (RA). Same as specified for (A) districts.
   (D)   Lot requirements, (RA).
      (1)   Residential A (RA).
         (a)   Each dwelling unit together with its accessory buildings
hereafter erected shall be located on a lot having an area of not less than
10,000 square feet and width of not less than 75 feet and depth of not less
than 120 feet.
         (b)   All lots shall front on and have ingress and egress by means of
a public right-of-way.
         (c)   All dwellings and accessory buildings on any lot shall not cover
more than 30% of the area of the lot.
         (d)   No building shall be closer than 30 feet to the street line of
which it faces.
         (e)   There shall be a side yard along each building the sum of width
shall not be less than 30% of the width of the lot; provided that no side yard
shall be less than nine feet; and provided further that all lots subdivided
prior to the passage of this chapter shall have a side yard of not less than
four feet.
         (f)   Each lot shall have a rear yard of not less than 25 feet in
depth.
         (g)   Accessory buildings shall be located as set forth in §
153.030(D)(5) above.
      (2)   Residential A (RAS).
         (a)   Structure must be elevated at least three feet above the
ordinary high water mark.
         (b)   Each dwelling unit together with its accessory buildings
hereafter erected shall be located on a lot having an area of not less than:
 
SQUARE FOOTAGE AREA DESCRIPTION
20,000         Non-sewered areas
15,000         Sewered, water frontage areas
10,000         Sewered, no water frontage areas
 
         (c)   Each dwelling unit together with its accessory buildings erected
shall be located on a lot having a width of at least 75 feet in sewered areas
and 100 feet in non-sewered areas and a depth of not less than 120 feet.
         (d)   No structure shall be closer than 50 feet in sewered areas, and
75 feet in non-sewered areas from the ordinary high water mark.
         (e)   No structure shall be placed nearer than 50 feet from the right-
of-way line of any federal, state, or county trunk highway; or 30 feet from the
right-of-way line of any municipal street.
         (f)   The total area of all impervious surfaces on a lot shall not
exceed 30% of the total lot area.
   (E)   Parking requirements, (RA); (RAS). As set forth in
Appendix A.
   (F)   Loading and unloading requirements, (RA); (RAS). As set forth in
Appendix B.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.032 RESIDENTIAL B (RBS).
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   All uses permitted in the (RA) zone; and
      (2)   Apartment houses.
   (B)   Uses by special permits. All uses by special permit in the (RA) zone.
   (C)   Height limit. No structure shall be higher than 35 feet above grade.
   (D)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   The following minimum lot requirements shall apply to all single-
family dwellings and two-family dwellings in the (RBS) zone:
         (a)   Structure must be elevated at least three feet above the
ordinary high water mark.
         (b)   Each dwelling unit together with its accessory buildings
hereafter erected, shall be located on a lot having an area of not less than:
 
SQUARE FOOTAGE AREA DESCRIPTION
20,000         Non-sewered areas
15,000         Sewered, water frontage areas
10,000         Sewered, no water frontage areas
 
         (c)   Each dwelling unit together with its accessory buildings erected
shall be located on a lot having a width of at least 75 feet in sewered areas
and 100 feet in non-sewered areas, and depth of not less than 120 feet.
         (d)   No structure shall be closer than 50 feet in sewered areas and
75 feet in non-sewered areas from the ordinary high water mark.
         (e)   No structure shall be placed nearer than 50 feet from the right-
of-way line of any federal, state, or county trunk highway; or 30 feet from the
right-of-way line of any municipal street.
         (f)   The total area of all impervious surfaces on a lot shall not
exceed 30% of the total lot area.
         (g)   All lots shall front on and have ingress and egress by means of
a public right-of-way.
         (h)   There shall be a side yard along each side of each building the
sum of the width of which shall not be less than 30% of the width of the lot,
provided that no side yard shall be less than five feet; and provided further
that all lots subdivided prior to the passage of this chapter shall have a side
yard of not less than four feet.
         (i)   Each lot shall have a rear yard of not less than 25 feet.
         (j)   Accessory buildings shall be located as set forth in §
153.030(D)(5).
      (2)   The following minimum lot requirements shall apply to all apartment
houses (a multiple family dwelling):
         (a)   Structures must be elevated at least three feet above the
ordinary high water mark.
         (b)   Each dwelling unit together with its accessory building
hereafter erected, shall be located on a lot having an area of not less than:
 
SQUARE FOOTAGE AREA DESCRIPTION
20,000         Non-sewered areas
15,000         Sewered, water frontage areas
10,000         Sewered, no water frontage areas
 
         (c)   Each dwelling unit together with its accessory buildings
hereafter erected shall be on a lot having a width of at least 75 feet in
sewered areas and 100 feet in non-sewered areas and depth of not less than 120
feet.
         (d)   No structure shall be closer than 50 feet in sewered areas and
75 feet in non-sewered areas from the ordinary high water mark.
         (e)   No structure shall be placed nearer than 50 feet from the right-
of-way line of any federal, state, or county trunk highway, or 30 feet from the
right-of-way line of any municipal street.
         (f)   The total area of all impervious surfaces on a lot shall not
exceed 30% of the total lot area.
         (g)   Each lot containing an apartment house, or several apartment
houses grouped as a self-contained site arrangement, shall front on, and have
ingress and egress by means of a public right-of-way.
         (h)   All apartment houses erected on a single lot shall have a side
yard of not less than 15 feet on each side, provided, however, that where
several such apartment houses are grouped as a self- contained site
arrangement, the minimum distance between apartment houses in the interior of
the group arrangement shall not be less than one-half the height of the
individual buildings but in no case less than 15 feet and that such apartment
houses located adjacent to adjoining lots shall be set back from such lots a
minimum of 15 feet.
         (i)   Each lot shall have a rear yard of not less than 35 feet.
         (j)   Accessory buildings shall be located as set forth in §
153.030(D)(5).
   (E)   Parking requirements. As set forth in
Appendix A.
   (F)   Loading and unloading requirements. As set forth in
Appendix B.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.033 COMMERCIAL (CA).
   (A)   Use permitted. All uses of a legitimate commercial nature, such as
retail, wholesale, service, office, financial, recreational, professional and
lodging; provided that, no industry or manufacturing shall be permitted.
   (B)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   No minimum lot area requirements.
      (2)   No percentage of lot coverage requirements.
      (3)   In the (CA) zone, no commercial building shall be erected,
reconstructed, altered or moved nearer to the street line on which it faces
than the average setback observed by the commercial buildings on the same side
of the street and fronting thereon within the same block. In no case, however,
shall the building setback line be nearer to the center of the street on which
it faces than one-half of the width of the street.
      (4)   No side yard is required on commercial lots in the (CA) zone where
no openings are provided in the walls of commercial buildings adjacent to
interior lot lines.
      (5)   Where openings are provided in the walls of commercial buildings
adjacent to interior lot lines, there will be a side yard on that side of the
lot not less than four feet in width.
      (6)   Each commercial lot in the (CA) zone shall have a rear yard not
less than 15 feet in depth.
   (C)   Loading and unloading requirements. As set forth in
Appendix B.
   (D)   Height limit. No structure shall be higher than 30 feet above grade,
except as may be issued a special use permit.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.034 COMMERCIAL (CB).
   (A)   Uses permitted. Any legitimate use the Planning Commission may
recommend and the City Council approves and which will not be detrimental to
the district, which will meet other specified requirements relative to the
district as specified in this chapter.
   (B)   Height limit. No structure shall be higher than 30 feet above grade.
   (C)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   No minimum lot requirements.
      (2)   No percent of lot coverage restrictions.
      (3)   In the (CB) zone no building shall be erected, reconstructed,
altered or moved nearer to the street line on which it faces than 50 feet,
except that it may observe the average setback of the buildings in the block.
      (4)   Side yards in the (CB) zone shall be 15 feet.
      (5)   Each lot in the (CB) zone shall have a rear lot yard not less than
20 feet in depth.
   (D)   Lot requirement exemptions. As set forth in §
153.031(D).
   (E)   Parking requirements. As set forth in
Appendix A.
   (F)   Loading and unloading requirements. As set forth in
Appendix B.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.035 INDUSTRIAL (I).
   (A)   Uses permitted. Manufacturing and processing uses which the Planning
Commission may recommend and the City Council approve under the provision of
the issuance of a special use permit.
   (B)   Height limit. No structure shall be higher than 30 feet above grade,
except as may be issued a special use permit.
   (C)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   No minimum lot area or setback requirements.
      (2)   No percent of lot coverage restrictions; provided, however, that
the off-street parking and loading requirements of this chapter are met.
   (D)   Parking requirements. As set forth in
Appendix A.
   (E)   Loading and unloading requirements. As set forth in
Appendix B.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.036 COMMERCIAL-INDUSTRIAL (CI).
   The following are permitted uses and requirements.
   (A)   Commercial uses as set forth in §
153.034(A) and meeting all requirements therein set forth; and
   (B)   Industrial uses as set forth in §
153.035(A) and meeting all requirements set forth in the (CB) zone.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS - ALL DISTRICTS
§ 153.050 RESIDENTIAL YARD STORAGE.
   In the (A), (RA), and (RB) Zoning Use Districts, all materials and equipment
shall be stored within a building or fully screened so as not to be visible
from adjoining properties except for the following; laundry drying and
recreational equipment, equipment temporarily being used on the premises,
agricultural equipment and materials, if these are intended for use on the
premises, off-street parking of passenger automobiles and pick-up trucks.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.051 REFUSE.
   In all zoning use districts, all waste materials, debris, refuse or garbage
shall be kept in an enclosed building or proper container for such purposes.
The owner of vacant land shall be responsible for keeping such land free of
refuse.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.052 SCREENING.
   Where any business or industrial use (i.e. structure, parking or storage) is
adjacent to property zoned for residential use, that business or industry shall
provide appropriate screening along the boundary of the residential property.
Screening shall also be provided where a business or industry is across the
street from a residential zone, but not on that side of a business or industry
considered to be the front as determined by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.053 LANDSCAPING.
   In all zoning use districts, developed uses shall provide a landscaped yard
along all streets, except as may be specially provided for unified
developments. Except for driveways and access walks, the yard shall extend
along the entire frontage of the lot and along both streets in the case of a
corner lot.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.054 PARKING.
   (A)   Surface and drainage. On-site parking areas shall be improved with a
durable surface. Such areas shall be so graded and drained as to dispose of all
surface water accumulation within the area. These requirements shall also apply
to open sales lots for cars, trucks, and other equipment.
   (B)   Determination of areas. A parking space shall not be less that 300
square feet of standing and maneuvering area. When application of these
regulations results in a requirement of a fractional space, the fraction up to
and including one-half shall be disregarded. Fractions over one-half shall
count as one additional space.
   (C)   Required on-site parking spaces or area so devoted shall be as set
forth in
Appendix A.
   (D)   Sale of parking areas. Property that constitutes required off-street
parking area may not be separated through sale or other means, from the
property containing the principal use for which the parking area is required.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.055 LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   Required on-site loading and unloading facilities shall be as set
forth in
Appendix B.
   (B)   Loading and unloading berths shall not be less than 15 feet in width,
30 feet in length, nor less than 15 feet in height, and shall be provided with
access to a street unless provided otherwise by such means as customer or
employee parking space on the same premise. The location, dimensions and means
of ingress and egress of such loading and unloading space shall be designated
upon the plans and specifications submitted for a building permit to enable the
determination therefrom whether or not this provision is being reasonably
complied with.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.056 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   Any existing building or premises and any lawful use therein at the time of
the passage of this section, may be continued therein although non-conforming
to the regulations of the district in which they are maintained. Any such use
may be changed or converted or extended throughout the building, provided in
either case that no structural alterations, except as required by existing laws
and ordinances, are made therein, and no new building or addition thereto is
erected. In any district no building or premises, not conforming to the
regulations of the use district in which it is maintained, shall be converted
to a use that would not conform to the regulations of the use district in which
the original non-conforming use would be permitted. A building which does not
conform to the regulations of the district in which it is located may not be
rebuilt in the event it is destroyed unless approval is given by the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.057 MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   No mobile home shall hereafter be located within the city unless it
has been granted a special use permit in zone (CB) or is located in a mobile
home park or court. No mobile home may be located on leased property unless
located in a mobile home court or park. In their review of mobile home parks or
courts, the city shall look particularly for adequate provision of the
following facilities:
      (1)   A continuing supply of safe and palatable water.
      (2)   Sanitary facilities and a safe method of sewage disposal.
      (3)   Electricity for artificial lighting and to serve equipment used in
the mobile home space.
      (4)   Patio or outdoor sitting space equal to 108 square feet for each
mobile home space.
      (5)   Tenant storage to the extent of 90 cubic feet of individual storage
space per mobile home space.
      (6)   Parking space equal to one space per mobile home plus adequate on-
site parking to serve the visiting public.
      (7)   Laundry drying facilities and public toilets.
      (8)   Recreational facilities.
      (9)   Management office and storage area.
      (10)   Garbage and trash disposal facilities.
      (11)   Adequate and safe access and egress to major public roads.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.058 CAMP SITES.
   (A)   No camp site shall be permitted within the city unless it has been
approved and licensed by the State of Minnesota and granted a special use
permit under the terms of this chapter.
   (B)   In their review the Planning Commission shall look particularly for
the reasonable provision of the same level and type of facilities as outlined
above in §
153.057.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.059 ABANDONMENTS.
   (A)   No use, structure, sign, building, or any other piece or article of
real estate or personal property may be abandoned or permitted in any public or
private place, because of disuse or neglect to become unsightly or offensive to
the public.
   (B)   Any non-conforming use or use authorized by this chapter, when
abandoned or discontinued, shall be removed or restored to as near its original
state as is practicable.
   (C)   Any citizen may make complaint to the district court for an order of
compliance to this section.
   (D)   The penalty for such offense shall be the obligation to remove or to
correct such unsightly or offensive thing or condition or remove or restore
such abandoned or discontinued use within a time fixed by the court, the same
may be ordered removed or corrected and the cost thereof assessed against the
owner of such property or the real estate on which the same is found to exist,
together with all costs of prosecution.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.060 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The following uses, being essential for the operation of any zoning
use district are exempt from all the provisions of this chapter and are
permitted in any district: poles, towers, wires, cable, conduits, vaults,
pipelines, laterals, or any other similar distributing equipment of a public
utility; and provided further that fences, walls, hedges or shrubbery may be
erected, placed, maintained or grown to a height not exceeding five feet unless
as otherwise specified in this chapter.
   (B)   A structure may be closer than the minimum setback requirements from
street right-of-way or the ordinary highwater mark provided that it may observe
the average setback of residential buildings on the same side of the street and
fronting thereon within the same block.
   (C)   A structure may be erected on a lot of less than minimum area and
width provided all of the following conditions are complied with:
      (1)   It existed by virtue of a recorded plat or deed at the time of the
adoption of this chapter.
      (2)   Such use is permitted in the zoning district.
      (3)   The lot is in separate ownership from abutting lands.
      (4)   All sanitary requirements of the city are complied with.
   (D)   The lot requirements need not necessarily apply to new plotted land
under single ownership, which is proposed for development as a unit. Such
developments shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for their
consideration and referral to the City Council for approval. Plans for such
development shall include plans and other drawings indicating function, floor
plans, elevations and typical vehicular circulation system, ingress and egress
points and control, special landscape and fencing treatment along abutting land
uses of a different type and the layout of adequate off-street parking and
loading and unloading facilities and sewer service. Smaller lot sizes may be
allowed for planned unit developments provided any attached conditions are met,
such as limits on overall density, minimum size of planned unit development, or
restriction to residential uses.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS - SHORELAND AREA
§ 153.075 SANITATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   The 1969 edition of the Minnesota Individual Sewage Disposal System
Code of Minimum Standards recommended by the Minnesota Department of Health and
as modified by the City Council of Elbow Lake is hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this chapter as if fully set forth herein, and all
development proposed in any of the zoning use districts established by this
chapter shall comply with the sanitation standards therein contained. The
Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer shall mark three copies of this code as official
copies and file them in his office for use and examination.
   (B)   Licensing.
      (1)   No, persons, firm, or corporation shall engage in the business of
installing and constructing sewage disposal systems, excavating or altering for
said purpose of installation within the city without first obtaining a license
to carry on such occupation from either the City Council of Elbow Lake or Grant
County Commissioners and procuring and posting with either the Clerk-
Administrator- Treasurer or the County Auditor a bond in the amount of $1,000
in favor of the city or county and the public, conditioned upon the faithful
performance of contracts and compliance with this chapter. Such license shall
be revoked or refused by the City Council or County Commissioners for cause.
Any installation, construction or alteration of a sewage disposal system by a
licensee in violation of this chapter or refusal on the part of a licensee to
correct such defective work performed by such licensee shall be cause for
revocation of or refusal to renew a license. If such licensee who has not
complied with this chapter has been licensed by Grant County but not the City
of Elbow Lake, such licensee must then also obtain a license from the city to
continue to carry on such occupation within the city.
      (2)   The annual license fee shall be $10. Application for such license
shall be made annually on a form furnished by the Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer
or County Auditor.
      (3)   Before any license issued under the provision of this section may
be revoked or its renewal refused, the licensee shall be given a hearing to
show cause why such license should not be revoked or refused. Notice of time,
place, and purpose of such hearing shall be in writing.
   (C)   Permits.
      (1)   No person, firm, or corporation shall install an individual sewage
disposal system in the city without first obtaining a permit from the Clerk-
Administrator-Treasurer or any other person designated by the Council for the
specific installation and at the time of applying for said permit, shall pay a
fee therefor of $5. Such permits shall be valid for a period of six months from
the date of issue.
      (2)   Applications for permits shall be made in writing upon printed
blanks or forms furnished by the city and shall be signed by the applicant.
      (3)   Each application for a permit shall have thereon the correct legal
description of the property on which the proposed installation is to take place
and each application for a permit shall be accompanied by a plot of the land
showing the location of any proposed or existing buildings located on the
property with respect to the boundary and complete plans of the proposed system
with substantiating data, if necessary, attesting to the compliance with the
minimum standards of this chapter.
      (4)   A complete plan shall include the location, size, and design of all
parts of the systems to be installed. The application shall also show the
present or proposed location of water supply facilities and water supply piping
and the name of the persons, firm, or corporation who is to install the system
and shall provide such further information as may be required by the City
Planning Commission.
      (5)   The results of two soil percolation tests taken by a certified
percolation tester shall be required prior to issuing a sewage system permit.
Percolation tests shall be taken in the immediate area of proposed soil
absorption area of the system.
   (D)   Construction requirements. Every individual sewage system installed
after the effective date of this chapter shall conform to the standards of the
code herein adopted by reference.
   (E)    Inspection.
      (1)   The Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer or any other person designated by
the Council shall cause such inspection or inspections as are necessary to
determine compliance with this chapter. No part of the system shall be covered
until it has been inspected and accepted. It shall be the responsibility of the
applicant for the permit to notify the city that the job is ready for
inspection or reinspection and it shall be the duty of the city to make the
indicated inspections within a 24 hour working day period, excluding Saturday,
Sunday, or legal holidays, after such notice has been given. It shall be the
duty of the owner or occupant of the property to give the city free access to
the property at reasonable times for the purpose of making such inspections.
Upon satisfactory completion and final inspection of the system, the city shall
issue to the applicant a certificate of approval.
      (2)   If upon inspection the city discovers that any part of the system
is not constructed in accordance with the minimum standards provided in this
chapter the applicant shall pay an additional fee of $3 for the second
inspection. For each reinspection that is necessary, a fee of $10 will be
charged. The applicant shall be responsible for the correction or elimination
of all defects and no system shall be placed or replaced in service until all
defects have been corrected or eliminated.
      (3)   There shall be open for city inspection purposes only, a hole not
less than two inches in diameter and four feet in depth from the bottom of the
lowest point in the soil absorption area of the system.
   (F)   Water supply.
      (1)   Any public or private supply of water for domestic purposes must
conform to Minnesota Department of Health standards for water quality.
      (2)   Private wells shall be placed in areas not subject to flooding and
upslope from any source of contamination. Wells already existing in areas
subject to flooding shall be floodproofed in accordance with procedures
established in Statewide Standards and Criteria for the management of Flood
Plain Areas of Minnesota.
   (G)   Sewage disposal. Any premises used for human occupancy shall be
provided with an adequate method of sewage disposal to be maintained in
accordance with acceptable practices.
      (1)   Public or municipal collection and treatment facilities must be
used where feasible.
      (2)   All private sewage systems shall conform to applicable standards,
criteria, rules and regulations of the Minnesota Department of Health, the
Pollution Control Agency, and any applicable local government regulations in
terms of size, construction, use and maintenance.
      (3)   Location and installation of a septic tank and soil absorption
system shall be such that, with reasonable maintenance, it will function in a
sanitary manner and will not create a nuisance, endanger the safety of any
domestic water supply nor pollute or contaminate any waters of the state. In
determining a suitable location for the system, consideration shall be given to
the size and slope of the lot, slope of natural and finished grade, soil
permeability, high ground water elevation, geology proximity to existing or
future supplies, accessibility for maintenance and possible expansion of the
system.
         (a)   Placement of soil absorption systems shall be subject to the
following specifications: ten feet from a lot line; 20 feet from a building
intended for human occupancy; and 50 feet from a well or other water supply
source.
         (b)   Minimum seepage area of the disposal field (total flat area of
trench bottom exclusive of sidewall area) shall be determined by the
percolation test procedure as specified in the 1969 edition of the Minnesota
Individual Sewage Disposal System Code of Minimum Standards and
Appendix C.
      (4)   Septic, tank and soil absorption systems shall be set back from the
normal high water mark at least 50 feet.
      (5)   Septic tank and soil absorption or similar systems shall not be
acceptable for disposal of domestic sewage for developments on lots adjacent to
public waters under the following circumstances:
         (a)   Low swampy areas or areas subject to recurrent flooding; or
         (b)   Areas where the highest known ground water table is within four
feet of the soil absorption system; or
         (c)   Areas of exposed bedrock or shallow bedrock within four feet of
the bottom of the soil absorption system or where subsurface conditions
significantly restrict percolation of effluent; or
         (d)   Areas of ground slope where there is danger of seepage of the
effluent onto the surface of the ground in accordance with the following
critical slope values:
 
PERCOLATION RATE CRITICAL SLOPE
Less than 3      20% or more
3-45             15% or more
45-60            10% or more
 
            1.   Absorption area for seepage pits is figured as effective
sidewall area beneath the inlet.
            2.   Absorption area for standard trenches is figured as trench-
bottom area.
            3.   In every case sufficient area should be provided for at least
two bedrooms.
            4.   Unsuitable for seepage pits if over 30.
            5.   Unsuitable for absorption systems if over 60.
   (H)   Alternative methods of sewage disposal, such as holding tanks,
privies, electric or gas incinerators, biological and/or tertiary waste
treatment plants or land disposal systems, may be permitted; provided such
facilities meet the standards, criteria, rules, and regulations of the
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and the Minnesota Department of Health.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.076 SHORELAND ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Grading and filling in shoreland areas or any alteration of natural
topography where the slope of the land is toward a public water or watercourse
leading to a public water must be authorized by a special use permit.
   (B)   In granting a special use permit for grading and filling, the
following conditions shall be met:
      (1)   The smallest amount of bare ground be exposed for as short a time
as feasible.
      (2)   Temporary ground cover such as mulch be used and permanent cover
such as sod be planted.
      (3)   Diversions, silting basins, terraces and other methods to trap
sediment be used.
      (4)   Lagooning be conducted in such a manner as to avoid creation of
fish trap conditions.
      (5)   Fill is stablized according to accepted engineering standards.
      (6)   Fill will not restrict a floodway or destroy the storage capacity
of a flood plain.
      (7)   Sides of a channel or artificial watercourse be established to
prevent slumping.
      (8)   Side channels or artificial watercourses be constructed with side
slopes of two units horizontal distance to one unit vertical or flatter, unless
bulkheads or riprapping are provided.
   (C)   Excavation on shorelands where the intended purpose is connection to a
public water, such as boat slips, canals, lagoons and harbors, shall require a
permit from the Clerk-Administrator- Treasurer or any other person designated
by the City Council before construction is begun. Such permit may be obtained
only after the Commissioner of Natural Resources has approved the proposed
connection to public waters. Approval shall be given only if the proposed work
is consistent with applicable state regu1ations for work in beds of public
waters.
   (D)   Any work which will change or diminish the course, current, or cross
section of a public water shall be approved by the Commissioner before the work
is begun. This includes the construction of channels and ditches, lagooning,
dredging of the Flekkefjord Lake bottom for removal of muck, silt or weeds and
filling in the lake bed. Approval shall be constructed to mean the issuance by
the Commissioner of a permit under the procedures of M.S. § 105.42, as it may
be amended from time to time, and other related statutes.
   (E)   The removal of natural vegetation shall be restricted to prevent
erosion into public waters to consume nutrients in the soil and to prevent
shoreland aesthetics. However:
      (1)   Selective removal may be practiced to allow a view corridor to the
water. However, such removal shall leave sufficient cover to screen cars,
dwellings, and other structures, except boat houses, piers, docks, and marinas
from view from Flekkefjord Lake.
      (2)   No clear cutting shall be allowed.
      (3)   This section shall not apply to permitted uses which normally
require the removal of the natural vegetation.
      (4)   Natural vegetation shall be restored insofar as feasible after any
construction project.
   (F)   The placement of roads and parking areas shall be controlled in
accordance with the following criteria in order to retard the runoff of surface
waters and excess nutrients:
      (1)   No impervious surface shall be placed within 50 feet of the
ordinary high water mark.
      (2)   Where feasible and practical, all roads and parking areas shall
meet the setback requirements established for structures within the Shoreland
Management Area.
      (3)   Natural vegetation or other natural material shall be used in order
to screen parking areas when viewed from the water.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.077 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Any lawful use existing at the time of this chapter, except that
sanitary facilities inconsistent with §
153.075(G) shall be eliminated within two years of notification of non-
conformance by the Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer or any other person designated
by the Council, but not to exceed the date of (five years from current
effective date). Sewage systems with straight pipe discharge into public waters
or other extreme non-conforming systems shall be corrected within 60 frost-free
days from the date of notification.
   (B)   If this order is not complied with, the nuisance will be abated and
the cost of so doing will be charged and assessed against the property and such
amount will be certified to the County Auditor, Grant County, Minnesota as
other taxes are collected and paid.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.078 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary plans must first be approved by the Commissioner of
Natural Resources.
   (B)   Central Sewage facilities must be provided which meet the standards,
criteria, rules or regulation of the Minnesota Department of Health and the
Pollution Control Agency.
   (C)   Open space is preserved.
   (D)   There is not more than one centralized boat launching facility for
each planned unit development.
   (E)   Any attached conditions, such as limits on overall density, minimum
length of water frontage may be demanded.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.079 EXEMPTIONS.
   The total area of all impervious surfaces on a lot shall not exceed 30% of
the total lot area, except:
   (A)   Boathouses may be located landward of the ordinary high water mark as
a conditional use provided they are not used for habitation and they do not
contain sanitary facilities.
   (B)   Location of piers and docks shall be controlled by applicable state
and local regulations.
   (C)   Where development exists on both sides of a proposed building site,
structural setbacks may be altered to take setbacks of existing structures into
account.
   (D)   Commercial, industrial, or permitted open space uses closer to such
water than the setback specified in this chapter.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.085 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these regulations is to regulate the subdividing of land
within the city and within an area extending two miles beyond the city limits.
Such extra-territorial power shall be continued only until Grant County, Elbow
Lake Township, and Sanford Township duly adopts and administers Countywide
subdivision controls. These controls are enacted to assure that developing
areas will contribute in the creation of an attractive, stable and wholesome
community environment in which adequate municipal services and safe streets
will be provided.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.086 LEGAL AUTHORITY.
   The enactment of these regulations are in pursuance of the authority granted
by M. S. § 462.358, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.087 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any plat, hereafter made for each subdivision or each part thereof
lying within the jurisdiction of this chapter, shall be prepared, presented for
approval and recorded as herein prescribed. The regulations contained herein
shall apply to the subdivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two or
more lots, tracts or other division of land for the purpose of sale or of
building development whether immediate or future, including the re-subdivision
or platting of land or lots.
   (B)   No land shall be subdivided which is held unsuitable for the proposed
use by the City Council for the reason of flooding, inadequate drainage, soil
and rock formations with severe limitations for development, severe erosion
potential, unfavorable topography, inadequate water supply or sewage disposal
capabilities or any other feature likely to be harmful to the health, safety or
welfare of the future residents of the proposed subdivision or of the
community. The City Council in applying the provisions of this section shall in
writing recite the particular facts upon which it bases its conclusion that the
land is not suitable for the proposed use and afford the subdivider an
opportunity to present evidence regarding suitability at a public hearing.
Thereafter the City Council may affirm, modify or withdraw its determination of
unsuitability.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS PROCEDURES
§ 153.095 PRE-APPLICATION MEETING.
   (A)   The following procedures shall be followed in administering this
chapter and no real property within its jurisdiction shall be subdivided and
offered for sale or a plat recorded until a pre-application meeting has been
held and a preliminary plat and a final plat of the proposed subdivision have
been reviewed by the Planning Commission and until the final plans of group
developments for housing, commercial, industrial or other uses or any
combination of uses shall be presented in the same manner as other plats for
review and approval.
   (B)   Prior to the submission of any plat for consideration to the Planning
Commission under the provisions of this chapter, the subdivider shall meet with
the Planning Commission, or any individual to whom the Commission may delegate
this responsibility to introduce himself as a potential subdivider and learn
what shall be expected of him in such capacity. Such initial meeting shall
constitute the pre-application meeting.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.096 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The subdivider shall submit to the Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer or
any other person designated by the council six copies of a preliminary plat of
his proposed subdivision, the requirements of which are as set forth in this
chapter. Said preliminary plat shall be submitted to the Planning Commission
(who, for the purpose of this chapter, shall be designated the platting
authority) two weeks prior to their next regularly scheduled meeting and shall
be accompanied by a fee of $25 plus $1 for each lot up to a maximum of $150.
   (B)   In instances where the proposed subdivision lies outside the city
limits, the Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer shall submit one copy of the
preliminary plat to the governing body of the town within the subdivision is
proposed and one copy to the Grant County Planning Advisory Commission not
later than three days after receipt of said plat from the subdivider. The
County Planning Advisory Commission's reactions to said plat shall be presented
to the City Planning Commission at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
   (C)   The City Planning Commission shall review the preliminary plat
considering the reaction in division (B) above and from the standpoint of the
public health and welfare, tax balance of industry, agriculture and residences
and city planning. The Planning Commission shall conduct a public hearing on
the proposed plat as required by law. The Commission shall notify the owner or
subdivider as to the time and place of the Planning Commission meeting, at
which time he will be afforded an opportunity to appear.
   (D)   If approved, the Planning Commission shall express its approval or
conditional approval and state the conditions of such approval, if any, or if
disapproved, shall express its disapproval and its reason(s) therefor. Such
approval or disapproval shall be transmitted to the City Council.
   (E)   After the City Council receives the report of the Planning Commission,
the Council shall act to approve or disapprove the plat and the Council may,
before acting upon the preliminary plat, submit it to any employee or technical
advisor of the city they may designate for further review and study. If the
Council shall disapprove said plat, the grounds for any such refusal shall be
set forth in the proceedings of the Council and reported to the person or
persons applying for such approval.
   (F)   Approval shall mean the acceptance of the design as a basis for
preparation of the final plat.
   (G)   At the time the preliminary plat is filed, if a zoning change would be
required to accommodate the proposed use, the subdivider shall submit to the
Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer a petition for appropriate rezoning.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.097 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The owner or subdivider shall file six copies of the final plat with
the Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer or any other person designated by the Council
at least two weeks before the next regularly scheduled Planning Commission
meeting and within 90 days of the date of the last approval of the preliminary
plat. These copies of the final plat shall conform substantially to the
preliminary plat as approved. Final plat approval shall become null and void on
all plats which are not filed within the time herein specified unless an
extension is requested in writing to the City Council and for good cause
granted by the Council.
   (B)   The subdivider may file a final plat limited to such portion of the
preliminary plat which he proposed to record and develop at one time, provided
that such portion conforms to all requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   The Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer or any other person designated by
the Council shall refer two copies of the final plat to the Planning Commission
for their review and report.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall check the final plat to see that it is
in substantial agreement with the preliminary plat as approved and that it
meets all ordinances and regulations of the city. In the event that the plat
involves special problems or is in conflict with city development objectives or
with the planning studies being conducted by the Planning Commission, the
Commission shall notify the owner or subdivider as to the time and place of the
Planning Commission meeting at which he shall be afforded an opportunity to
appear.
   (E)   Any proposed plat in the Shoreland Management Area, which is
inconsistent with provisions of this chapter shall be reviewed by the
Commissioner of Natural Resources before approval by the City Council may be
granted. Such review shall require that the proposed plats be received by the
Commissioner at least ten days before a hearing is called by the City Council
for consideration of approval of a final plat.
   (F)   Copies of all plats within the Shoreland Management Area shall be
submitted to the Commissioner within ten days of final approval by the
municipality.
   (G)   The subdivider shall install monuments in accordance with the
requirements of M.S. § 505.02, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   When a final plat meets all the conditions of this chapter, the
Planning Commission shall recommend approval to the City Council and the
Council shall act thereon. Following final plat approval or disapproval by the
Council, the Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer shall notify the subdivider of the
Council's action and within 30 days thereafter the final plat, if approved,
shall be filed with the County Register of Deeds.
   (I)   Any approval of the final plat by the Council shall be null and void
if the plat is not recorded with the Register of Deeds of the County within 30
days after the date of approval unless application for an extension of time is
made, in writing, during the 30 day period, to the City Council and granted by
the Council. A duplicate and five paper prints of the final plat - after the
plat has been recorded with the Register of Deeds of the County - shall be
filed with the County Auditor. Said plat shall not be filed unless it is
accompanied by a certified copy of the resolution approving it.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
PRESENTATION REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.105 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Scale: one inch equals 100 feet.
   (B)   Identification and description:
      (1)   Proposed name of subdivision, which name shall not duplicate or be
similar in pronunciation to the name of any plat theretofore recorded in the
city;
      (2)   Location by section, town, range, or by other legal description;
      (3)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, surveyor and designer
of the plan;
      (4)   Graphic scale;
      (5)   North point; and
      (6)   Date of preparation.
   (C)   Existing conditions in tract and in surrounding area to a distance of
300 feet:
      (1)   Boundary line of proposed subdivision clearly indicated;
      (2)   Total approximate acreage;
      (3)   Platted streets, railroad right-of-way and utility easements;
      (4)   Boundary lines and ownership of adjoining unsubdivided land;
      (5)   Sewers, water mains, culverts or other underground facilities;
      (6)   Permanent buildings and structures; and
      (7)   Lakes, watercourses and marsh areas and such other information as
soil tests andcontours at vertical intervals of not more than two feet, if
requested by the Planning Commission to aid in their review. All elevation data
shall be mean sea level or some other assumed, workable data.
   (D)   Subdivision design features:
      (1)   Layout and width of proposed streets and utility easements showing
street names, lot dimensions, parks and other public areas. The name of any
street heretofore used in the city shall not be used, unless the proposed
street is an extension of an already named street, in which event the name
shall be used. The street layout shall include all contiguous land owned or
controlled by the subdivider.
      (2)   Proposed use of all parcels and, if zoning change is required,
proposed rezoning.
      (3)   Preliminary street grades and drainage plan shall be shown on a
copy of the contour map, if required.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.106 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Plans for the provision of safe and palatable water, sewage disposal,
drainage and flood controls;
   (B)   Such information as found necessary for review by the Planning
Commission;
   (C)   Evidence that ground water control is at least four feet below the
level of finished grades or plan for solving ground water problem;
   (D)   Data required as set forth in M.S. Chapter 505, as it may be amended
from time to time;
   (E)   An identification system for all lots and blocks;
   (F)   The size (in square feet) and dimensions of all lots;
   (G)   Certification by a registered land surveyor to the effect that the
plat represents a survey made by him and that monuments and markers shown
thereon exist as located and that all dimensional and geodetic details are
correct;
   (H)   Notarized certification by owners, and by any mortgage holder of
record of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and other
public areas;
   (I)   Certifications showing that all taxes and liens currently due on the
property to be subdivided have been paid in full;
   (J)   Form for approval by City Council:
      The City Council of the City of Elbow Lake, Minnesota, hereby approves
this final plat this _________ day of __________________, 19______.
Signed:______________________
   Mayor
Signed:______________________
   Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 153.115 STREETS.
   (A)   All subdivision layouts shall be developed in proper relation to
existing and proposed streets, roads, topography, surface water, vegetative
cover, other natural features, and the most advantageous development of
adjoining areas.
   (B)   Public streets shall be designed and located to take into account:
      (1)   Existing and planned streets;
      (2)   Topographic conditions including the bearing capacity and erosion
potential of the soil;
      (3)   Public convenience and safety including facilitating fire
protection, snow plowing, and pedestrian traffic;
      (4)   Requirements of public utility facilities;
      (5)   The proposed uses of land to be served;
      (6)   Anticipated traffic volumes; and
      (7)   Further resubdivision possibilities.
   (C)   Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the arrangement of streets
in new subdivisions shall make provision for the proper projection of streets.
When a new subdivision adjoins unsubdivided land susceptible to being
subdivided, then the new streets shall be carried to the boundaries of such
unsubdivided land.
   (D)   The following width and grade standards of street design shall be
observed by the subdivider:
 
STREETS                       DISTANCE*       MIN. GRADE MAX. GRADE
Highways and arterial streets 100 to 150 feet 6%         0.5%
Collector streets             80 feet         8%         0.5%
Local streets                 66 feet         10%        0.5%
NOTE TO TABLE:
* - Distance is measured from lot line to lot line.
 
Where new streets extend existing adjoining streets, their projections shall be
at the same or greater width, but in no case less than the minimum required
width.
   (E)   Tangents of at least 100 feet in length shall be introduced between
reverse curves on collector streets and 50 feet on lesser streets.
   (F)   Local streets shall be so aligned that their use by through traffic
will be discouraged.
   (G)   Street jogs with center line offsets of less than 150 feet shall be
avoided.
   (H)   Insofar as practical, street intersections shall be at right angles
and no intersection shall be at an angle of less than 45 degrees. It must be
evidenced that safe and efficient traffic flow is encouraged.
   (I)   Maximum length of permanent cul-de-sac streets shall be 400 feet
measured along the center line from the intersection of origin to the end of
right-of-way. Each cul-de-sac shall be provided at the closed end with a
turnaround having a minimum outside roadway diameter of 80 feet and a minimum
street property line diameter of 100 feet.
   (J)   Half-streets shall be prohibited except where the City Council finds
it to be practical to require the dedication of the other half when the
adjoining property is subdivided.
   (K)   Proposed street obviously in alignment with existing and named streets
shall bear the names of such existing streets. In other cases, the name for the
proposed street shall not duplicate existing street names.
   (L)   Street surfacing done by the developer shall be approved by the City
Council.
   (M)   Private streets shall not be approved nor shall public improvements be
approved for any previously existing private street.
   (N)   No person shall sell any parcel of land in a subdivision located in
the city if it abuts on a road which has not been accepted as a public road and
is not required to be maintained by the city.
   (O)   Where a proposed plat is adjacent to a major throughfare, the City
Council may require the developer to provide local service drives along the
right-of-way of such facilities or they may require that lots should back on
the throughfare, in which case, vehicular and pedestrian access between the
lots and throughfare shall be prohibited.
   (P)   The street arrangements shall not be such as to cause hardship to
owners of adjoining property in platting their own land and providing
convenient access to it.
   (Q)   Curb lines at street intersections shall be rounded at a radius of not
less than 20 feet.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.116 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Utility easements as required by the City Council shall be provided
for utilities, where necessary. They shall be centered on rear and other lot
line or within alley right-of-ways. They shall have continuity of alignment
from block to block. At deflection points, easements for pole line anchors
shall be provided where necessary.
   (B)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage
right-of-way substantially in alignment with the lines of such watercourse,
together with such further width of construction or both, as will be adequate
for storm water runoff. The easement shall include not only the stream channel,
but also adjoining areas that have been subject to flooding in years of heavy
runoff.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.117 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Block lengths shall not exceed 1,200 feet and, if possible, shall not
be less than 400 feet in length. In blocks longer than 800 feet, a pedestrian
crossway with a minimum right-of-way of ten feet shall be required near the
center of the block. The use of additional accessways to schools, parks, and
other destinations may also be required.
   (B)   A block shall be so designed as to provide two tiers of lots of
appropriate depth unless it adjoins a railroad or highway or arterial street
and unless the rear lot line abuts a different land use, or topographical
conditions necessitate a single tier of lots. In these cases, the lot depth
shall be at least 15 feet greater than minimum requirements.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.118 LOTS.
   (A)   Where possible, side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight
street lines or radial to curved street lines. Each lot shall front on a public
street or highway. Lots with frontage on two parallel streets shall be
permitted only under unusual circumstances.
   (B)   Minimum lot sizes within the city shall in all cases conform to zoning
regulations in force. Corner lots shall be platted at least 15 feet wider than
the minimum lot width required if no provision is so made in the Zoning
Ordinance in force.
   (C)   There shall be no direct vehicular access from residential lots to
highways or arterial streets, and residential lots shall be seperated from
trunk highways and arterial streets and railroad right-of-way by a 25 foot
buffer strip, which may be in the form of added depth or width of lots backing
on or siding along the throughfare or railroad right-of-way.
   (D)   Lot remnants which are below the minimum lot size must be added to
adjacent or surrounding lots rather than be allowed to remain as an unusable
outlot or parcel unless the owner can show plans for the future use of such
remnants.
   (E)   The shape of individual lots may render portions unuseable for
installing private sewage disposal systems or providing adequate separating
distances between them and watercourses or water wells. Therefore, any part of
a lot less than 30 feet wide shall not be used in computing the minimum lot
area.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.119 NATURAL FEATURES.
   In the subdividing of land, due regard shall be shown for all natural
features which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and stability to the
proposed development.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.120 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Altered zoning standards may be allowed as exemptions to this chapter
for planned unit development provided:
      (1)   Preliminary plans are first approved by the Commissioner of Natural
Resources.
      (2)   Central sewage facilities are installed which meet the standards,
criteria, rules or regulations of the Minnesota Department of Health and the
Pollution Control Agency.
      (3)   Open space is preserved.
      (4)   That the following factors are carefully evaluated to ensure that
the increased density of development is consistent with the resource
limitations of the public water:
         (a)   Suitability of the site for the proposed use;
         (b)   Physical and aesthetic impact of increased density;
         (c)   Level of current development;
         (d)   Amount and ownership of undeveloped shoreland;
         (e)   Levels and types of water surface use and public access; and
         (f)   Possible effects on over-all public use.
      (5)   Any commercial, recreational, community, or religious facility
allowed as part of the planned unit development shall conform to all applicable
federal and state regulations including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   Licensing provisions or procedures;
         (b)   Waste disposal regulations;
         (c)   Water supply regulations;
         (d)   Building codes;
         (e)   Safety regulations;
         (f)   Regulations concerning the appropriation and use of Public
Waters as defined in M.S. Chapter 105, as it may be amended from time to time;
and
         (g)   Applicable regulations of the Minnesota Environmental Quality
Council.
      (6)   Any attached conditions are met, such as limits on overall density,
minimum size of the planned unit development, restriction to residential uses,
or minimum length of water frontage.
      (7)   The final plan for a planned unit development shall not be
modified, amended, repealed, or otherwise altered unless approved in writing by
the developer, the City Council and the Commissioner of Natural Resources.
      (8)   There is not more than one centralized boat launching facility,
beach, dock, or other recreation facility for each planned unit development.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.135 REQUIREMENTS.
   Before the City Council approves a final plat, the subdivider shall give
satisfactory assurances of the provision of §§
153.136 through
153.143.
§ 153.136 MONUMENTS.
   Steel monuments shall be placed at all block corners, angle points, points
of curves in streets and at intermediate points as shown on the final plat. All
U.S., state, county or other official benchmarks, monuments or triangulation
stations in or adjacent to the property shall be preserved in precise position.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.137 STREETS.
   All the streets shall be improved in accordance with the engineering
specifications established by the City Council.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.138 WATER SUPPLY FACILITIES.
   Where there is an existing public water supply system on or near the
subdivision, the City Council shall determine the feasibility of service and
the requirements to be followed by the subdivider in connecting to the system.
Where there is no existing public water supply, individual water supply systems
will be permitted in accordance with minimum standards and regulations of the
Minnesota Department of Health.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.139 SANITARY SEWERAGE.
   (A)   In areas that have a sanitary sewage system on or near the proposed
subdivision, the City Council shall determine the feasibility of service and
the procedures to be followed by the subdivider in joining the system.
   (B)   In areas that are not to be served by sewer systems, on-site sewage
disposal systems utilizing septic tank and soil absorption fields will be
permitted only where soil borings and percolation tests indicate the systems
will function adequately. Disposal systems shall be constructed to meet the
requirements of the Minnesota Department of Health, the standards set out in §
153.075 , and other state and local requirements. The subdivider shall carry
out sufficient soil borings and percolation tests to adequately portray the
character of the soil, ground water levels, and depth to bedrock. Each lot
shall have at least 50% of its area free of all of the limiting conditions set
forth in §
153.075.
   (C)   The City Council may prohibit the installation of sewage disposal
facilities utilizing septic tanks and soil absorption fields where such systems
would impair water quality, and the City Council may require alternative
methods of waste treatment and disposal including, but not limited to,
biological and or territory or incinerator or chemical toilets.
   (D)   Plans for private sewage disposal systems not utilizing septic tank
and soil absorption fields as specified in division (C), shall be approved in
writing by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency or Minnesota Department of
Health. The subdivider shall clearly indicate on the face of the plat and in
any deed of conveyance that septic tank and soil absorption fields are not to
be used.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.140 STORM DRAINAGE.
   Storm drainage facilities, where required, shall be designated to permit the
unimpeded flow of natural watercourses; insure the drainage of all points along
the line of streets; and provide positive drainage away from on-site sewage
disposal facilities. In designing storm facilities, special consideration shall
be given to protection against shoreland erosion and siltation of surface
waters and preventing excess runoff on adjacent property.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.141 STREET NAME SIGNS.
   These shall be placed at all street intersections within or abutting the
subdivisions and shall conform to the standard of design accepted for all
street name signs by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.142 SPECIFICATIONS.
    All of the improvements shall conform to engineering standards and
specifications as required by the City Council.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.143 FINANCING.
   Before a final plat is approved by the City Council, the subdivider shall
satisfactorily demonstrate how the required improvements are to be provided.
This could take the form of a letter of intent to provide the improvements as
the subdivision develops and change the cost against the price of the lots; or
leave the ultimate provision of the improvements up to the purchasers of the
land through the process of petition, city construction and property
assessment; or whatever assurances would be acceptable to the City Council.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.144 DEDICATIONS.
   (A)   The City Council may require that suitable sites in the subdivision be
dedicated or reserved for future public use, such as schools, parks,
playgrounds, public access and open spaces as needed by the subdivision.
   (B)   Any part of a street or other public way which is indicated on a
comprehensive plan or plan component shall conform to the arrangement, width
and location indicated, and shall be offered for dedication to the city.
   (C)   The City Council may require that easements for drainage ways of
widths sufficient to accommodate storm water runoff be provided.
   (D)   The City Council may require that easements for public utilities be
provided.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.155 ADMINISTRATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer or any other
person authorized by the City Council, to cause the provisions of this chapter
to be properly enforced and to administer the same.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.156 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   A building permit shall be obtained before the construction or moving
of any structure or part thereof, and for installing, converting, or remodeling
and structures or parts thereof.
   (B)   Before a building permit is issued, the terms of this chapter shall be
met.
   (C)   Application for a building permit shall be made to the Clerk-
Administrator-Treasurer or any other person authorized by the City Council, on
blank forms furnished by the city. Each application for a permit to construct
or alter any building shall be accompanied by a plan drawn to scale showing the
dimensions of the lot to be built upon and the size and location of the
building and accessory building to be erected. Application for any kind of
building permit shall contain such other information as may be deemed necessary
for the proper enforcement of this chapter. The fee for a building permit shall
be $25, but no fee shall be charged if the proposed work will change the
outside dimensions by 50 square feet or less.
   (D)   The Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer or any other person authorized by
the City Council may issue building permits if all provisions of this chapter
are met or he may refer applications to the Planning Commission for review
prior to issuance. The City Council shall be notified monthly of permits
issued.
   (E)   Prior to construction a site inspection shall be made by authorized
personnel appointed by the City Council.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.157 APPEALS.
   There is hereby established a Board of Adjustment and Appeals which board
shall hear any appeals from decisions of the Planning Board. The Board of
Adjustment and Appeals decision shall be final, subject to judicial review. The
City Council shall act as a Board of Adjustment and Appeals, and shall meet at
such time and place as is necessary to carry on the business at hand. The Board
of Adjustment and Appeals must meet within 30 days after written notice has
been personally served upon the City Mayor. The Board shall have the powers set
forth in M.S. § 462.359, Subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to time.
Copies of all notices of any public hearings to consider variances, amendments,
or special uses in the Shoreland Management Area shall be received by the
Commissioner of Natural Resources at least ten days prior to such hearings.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.158 VARIANCE.
   (A)   In any case where, upon application of any responsible parties to the
Board of Adjustment, it appears, that by reason of exceptional circumstances,
the strict enforcement of any provision of the standards would cause
unnecessary hardship or that strict conformity with the standards would be
unreasonable, impracticable, or not feasible under the circumstances, the Board
of Adjustment may permit a variance therefrom upon such conditions as it may
prescribe consistent with the general purposes of this chapter and the intent
of this and all other applicable state and local regulations and laws, provided
that:
      (1)   The condition causing the hardship is unique to that property;
      (2)   The variance is proved necessary in order to secure for the
applicant a right or rights that are enjoyed by other owners in the same area
or district;
      (3)   The granting of the variance will not be contrary to the public
interest or damaging to the rights of other persons or to property values in
the neighborhood; and
      (4)   The granting of the variance will not be contrary to management
policies of the area or district.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted simply because there are no objections or
because those who do not object out number those who do; nor for any other
reason than a proved hardship.
   (C)   Public notice that a specific variance will be considered at the next
regular meeting of the Board of Adjustment shall be placed in a newspaper of
general circulation at least ten days before a public hearing.
   (D)   Notice shall be sent to all property owners within 350 feet of the
property for which the appeal is filed.
   (E)   A copy of all variances granted shall be forwarded to the Commissioner
of Natural Resources within ten days of such action.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.159 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   A special use is one that may or may not be compatible with other uses
in the district within which it is located. The compatibility must be judged on
the basis of the particular circumstances and may require the imposing of
conditions. The procedure for issuance of special use permits as provided for
in this chapter is as follows:
      (1)   The applicant for a special use permit shall file his application
in writing in the office of the Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer and pay a fee of
five dollars when the application is filed. Said fee shall be payable to the
city.
      (2)   The Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer or any other person designated by
the Council shall refer the application to the Planning Commission. Property
owners within 350 feet of the property in question shall be given notice within
48 hours of filing of an application and shall be given not less than seven
days notice of pending of same and when same will be considered.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall consider the application at its next
regular meeting or a special meeting, held no later than seven days following
notification of property owners as noted in division (A)(2).
      (4)   The applicant or his representative shall appear before the
Planning Commission and answer any questions concerning the proposed special
use.
      (5)   The Planning Commission shall consider possible adverse effects of
the proposed special use and what additional requirements may be necessary to
prevent such adverse effects.
      (6)   The report of the Planning Commission shall be referred to the City
Council and placed on the agenda of the Council at its next regular meeting
following referral from the Planning Commission.
      (7)   The City Council shall take action on the application within 72
hours after receiving the report of the Planning Commission. If it grants the
special use permit, the City Council may impose special conditions it considers
necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.160 AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES.
   (A)   An amendment to this chapter may be initiated by the City Council, the
Planning Commission or by petition of affected property owners.
   (B)   Any affected property owner petitioning for an amendment to this
chapter shall make application in writing to the Clerk-Administrator-Treasurer.
The application shall be accompanied by a fee of $25 payable to the city.
   (C)   Public notice concerning an amendment to the zoning ordinance will be
considered at the next regular meeting of the Planning Commission and shall be
placed in a newspaper of general circulation at least ten days before the
public hearing.
   (D)   In addition to the general notice to the public, separate notice ten
days before the hearing shall be required for all property owners residing
within 350 feet of the area where a request concerning a zoning change will be
the subject of the hearing.
   (E)   The County Board and Town Board of the township within the proposed
amendment is located shall receive notification if within the extra territorial
limits of this chapter.
   (F)   No change shall be made until the proposed change has been referred to
the Planning Commission for report thereon and an attested copy of such report
has been filed with the Council. Failure of the Planning Commission so to
report within 45 days or such longer period as may be designated by the Council
after such reference shall be deemed to be approval of the proposed change.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
§ 153.161 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who unlawfully violates any of the terms and provisions of
this chapter shall be charged with a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not
more than $300, or by imprisonment not exceeding 90 days. All fines for
violations shall be credited to the city.
   (B)   In the event of a violation or a threatened violation of this chapter,
the City Council or any member thereof, in addition to other remedies, may
institute appropriate actions or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct or
abate such violations or threatened violations, and it shall be the duty of the
City Attorney to institute such action.
   (C)   Any taxpayer or taxpayers of the city may institute mandamus
proceedings in District Court to compel specific performance by the proper
official or officials of any duty required by this chapter.
(Ord. 126, 6-28-76)
§ 153.162 METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION.
   (A)   No conveyance of land shall be recorded or filed if the land is
described in the conveyance by metes and bounds or by reference to an
unapproved, registered land survey made after the effective date of this
chapter. The foregoing provision does not apply to a conveyance if the land
described:
      (1)   Was a separate parcel of record at the date of adoption of this
chapter.
      (2)   Was the subject of a written agreement to convey entered into prior
to such time;
      (3)   Was a separate parcel of not less than 2 ½ acres in area and 150
feet in width on the effective date of this chapter or in a single parcel of
land of not less than five acres and having a width of not less than 300 feet.
   (B)   In any case in which compliance with the foregoing restriction will
create an unnecessary hardship and failure to comply does not interfere with
the purpose of the subdivision regulations, the City Council may waive such
compliance by adoption of a resolution to that effect and the conveyance may
then be filed or recorded. Any owner or agent of the owner of land who conveys
a lot or parcel in violation of the provisions of this subdivision shall
forfeit and pay to the municipality a penalty of not less than $100 for each
lot or parcel so conveyed.
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
APPENDIX A: ON-SITE PARKING REQUIREMENTS
Use Required Spaces or Area
Use                             Required Spaces or Area
Residential                     One per dwelling unit
Churches /auditoriums**         One per six seats
Pre-schools                     One per each two employees
Elementary schools              One per each two employees
Secondary schools               One per each two employees and one per each
                                five pupils
Parks/playgrounds*              One per each two employees
Swimming pools*                 One per each two employees
Public halls/community centers  Equal in number to 30% of the capacity of
                                people
Hospitals/medical institutions* One per each two beds and one per each staff
                                doctor
                                Three square feet of parking area for each
Commercial (CB)                 square foot of space open to the public, but no
                                less than 900 square feet, plus one per each
                                three employees
Industrial*                     One per each three employees and one per each
                                managerial personnel
Commercial/industrial           Commercial buildings same as (CB) zone;
                                Industrial buildings same as (I) zone
NOTES TO TABLE:         
* - Adequate to serve visiting public as demonstrated to the Planning
Commission.
** - Additional required for building containing an auditorium, such as
schools.
 
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
APPENDIX B: ON-SITE LOADING AND UNLOADING REQUIREMENTS
Use Required Berths
Use                         Required Berths
                            One per each building containing 10,000 square
Educational                 feet* to 200,000 square feet, plus one per each
                            additional 200,000 square feet
Religious                   Same as educational
                            One per each building containing at least 10,000
Health/medical institutions square feet to 100,000 square feet, plus one per
                            each additional 100,000 square feet
                            One per each building containing at least 10,000
Recreational facilities     square feet of building area, plus one per each
                            additional 100,000 square feet
Commercial                  One per each individual building**
                            One per each building containing 40,000 square feet
Industrial                  and two per each building containing 40,000 square
                            feet to 100,000 square feet
Commercial/industrial       Commercial buildings, same as commercial zone;
                            industrial buildings same as industrial zone
NOTES TO TABLE:            
   * - Square feet represents gross floor area so measured.
   ** - Adequate to meet needs of the use as demonstrated to the Planning
Commission.
 
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
APPENDIX C: ABSORPTION AREA REQUIREMENTS FOR PRIVATE RESIDENCES AND OTHER
ESTABLISHMENTS
   Required absorption area in square feet standard trench and seepage pit.
 
PERCOLATION RATE* PER BEDROOM** PER GALLON OF WASTE PER DAY
1 or less            70         0.2
NOTES TO TABLE:
   * - Time required for water to fall one inch in minutes.
   ** - Per bedroom column provides for residential garbage grinders and
automatic sequence washing machines.
 
(Ord. 126, passed 6-28-76)
CHAPTER 154: ANTI-BLIGHT REGULATIONS
Section
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Findings
   
154.03   Definitions
   
154.04   Exceptions
   
154.05   Location of sexually oriented businesses
   
154.06   Sign restrictions for sexually oriented businesses
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to control, through zoning regulations,
certain land uses that have a direct and detrimental effect on the character of
the city's residential and commercial neighborhoods. The City Council
specifically recognizes the sanctity and fundamental nature of free speech and
does not intend to regulate or ban speech based on content.
§ 154.02 FINDINGS.
   The City Council makes the following findings regarding the effect sexually-
oriented businesses have on the character of the city's neighborhoods. In
making these findings, the City Council accepts the recommendations and
conclusions of the Report of the Attorney General's Working Group on the
Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses, dated June 6, 1989, which is
adopted by reference. This chapter shall have no force and effect until the
City Council accepts these recommendations by resolution of a majority of its
members, using the model resolution contained in the
Appendix in Chapter 115 of this code.
   (A)   Sexually oriented businesses have an impact on the neighborhoods
surrounding them which is distinct from the impact caused by other uses.
   (B)   Residential and commercial neighborhoods located within close
proximity to sexually oriented businesses experience the following negative
impacts:
      (1)   Increased crime rates, particularly in sex-related crimes such as
rapes, prostitution, indecent exposure and other lewd and lascivious behavior;
      (2)   Property values which are either diminished or fail to appreciate
at the rate of other comparable properties not located in proximity to sexually
oriented businesses;
      (3)   Increased transiency and decreased stability of ownership;
      (4)   Deteriorated neighborhood appearance from litter and graffiti;
      (5)   Sex-related harassment of residents and customers by motorists and
pedestrians;
      (6)   A perception that the area is “unsafe”; and
      (7)   Difficulty in attracting and retaining customers, employees, and
desirable tenants.
   (C)   The adverse impacts which sexually oriented businesses have on
surrounding areas diminish as the distance from the sexually oriented business
increases.
   (D)   The adverse impacts of sexually oriented businesses are exacerbated
when the uses are located near each other.
   (E)   The presence of liquor establishments in the immediate vicinity of
sexually oriented businesses also compounds the adverse impacts on the
neighborhood.
   (F)   Sexually oriented businesses can exert a dehumanizing influence on
persons attending places of worship, children attending day care centers or
schools, and people using public parks and libraries.
   (G)   Sexually oriented businesses can significantly contribute to the
deterioration of residential neighborhoods and can impair the character and
quality of the residential housing in the area where they are located, thereby
exacerbating the shortage of affordable and habitable housing for city
residents.
   (H)   The concentration of sexually oriented businesses in one area can have
a substantially detrimental effect on that area and on the overall quality of
urban life. A cycle of decay can result from the influx and concentration of
sexually oriented businesses. The presence of such businesses is perceived by
others as an indication that the area is deteriorating and the result can be
devastating: other businesses move out of the vicinity and residents flee from
the area. The resulting decline in real estate values erodes the city's tax
base and contributes to overall urban blight.
   (I)   Land-use regulations are appropriate to minimize the detrimental
effects that sexually oriented businesses have on adjacent land uses.
§ 154.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and terms shall have the following meanings when used in
this section, except as provided otherwise in §
154.04:
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Shall include the following:
      (1)   A business that meets any of the following criteria, measured on a
daily, weekly, monthly, or yearly basis:
         (a)   Has more than 25% of its inventory, stock-in-trade, or publicly
displayed merchandise in sexually oriented materials;
         (b)   Devotes more than 25% of its floor area (not including
storerooms, stock areas, bathrooms, basements, or any portion of the business
not open to the public) to sexually oriented materials; or
         (c)   Derives more than 25% of its gross revenues from sexually
oriented materials; or
      (2)   A business that engages for any length of time in a sexually
oriented use as defined in this section, or any other use that has an emphasis
on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED MATERIALS. Visual, printed, or aural materials, and other
objects or devices, which:
      (1)   Contain, depict, simulate, or describe specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas;
      (2)   Are marketed for use in conjunction with, or are primarily used
only with or during, specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Are designed for sexual stimulation.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED USE. Includes any of the following activities and
businesses, even if the activity exists for only a short-time:
      (1)   ADULT BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business that
provides the service of applying paint, ink or other substance, whether
transparent or non-transparent, to the body of a patron when the person is
nude.
      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment or business used for the barter,
rental, or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures, slides,
records, audiotape, videotape, movies, or motion picture film if it meets the
criteria established in the definition of “sexually oriented business,” as
defined in this section.
      (3)   ADULT CABARET. A business or establishment that provides dancing or
other live entertainment distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on:
         (a)   The depiction of nudity, specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas; or
         (b)   The presentation, display, or depiction of matter that seeks to
evoke, arouse, or excite sexual or erotic feelings or desire.
      (4)   ADULT COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A business or establishment that
provides the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or
discussion distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (5)   ADULT CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A business or establishment that
provides the services of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or
discussion distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (6)   ADULT HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club that is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (7)   ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL. A hotel or motel that presents material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (8)   MASSAGE PARLOR/HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health club that
provides massage services distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (9)   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A business or establishment with
a capacity of less than 50 persons that as a prevailing practice presents on-
premises viewing of movies, motion pictures, or other material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (10)      ADULT MODELING STUDIO. A business or establishment that
provides live models who, with the intent of providing sexual stimulation or
sexual gratification, engage in specified sexual activities or display
specified anatomical areas while being observed, painted, painted upon,
sketched, drawn, sculptured, photographed or otherwise depicted.
      (11)      ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited where coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are used to show images
to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (12)      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A motion picture theater with a
capacity of 50 or more persons that as a prevailing practice presents material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons.
      (13)      ADULT NOVELTY PUNINESS. An establishment or business that has a
variety of items for sale if it meets the criteria established in the
definition of “sexually oriented business,” as defined in this section.
      (14)      ADULT SAUNA. A sauna that excludes minors by reason of age, and
that provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of
bathing, relaxation or reducing, if the service provided by the sauna is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      (15)      ADULT STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or portion of a
building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation or reducing, if the building or
portion of a building restricts minors by reason of age and if the service
provided by the steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Shall include the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
area, buttock, anus, or female breast below a point immediately above the top
of the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a state of sexual arousal, whether or not
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Shall include the following:
      (1)   Actual or simulated: sexual intercourse; oral copulation; anal
intercourse; oral- anal copulation; bestiality; direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals; flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship; the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship; anilingus; coprophagy; coprophilia; cunnilingus; fellatio;
necrophilia; pedophilia; piquerism or zooerastia;
      (2)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal, or tumescence;
      (3)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation,
coitus, or masturbation;
      (4)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks, or female breasts;
      (5)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude, who
are clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes and engaged in the
flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other physical restraint of any
person;
      (6)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling, or other sexually oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; or
      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, or vaginal or anal
irrigation.
§ 154.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   This section does not regulate the following:
   (A)   Any material with significant literary content or social commentary;
   (B)   A business where sexually oriented materials are sold, bartered,
distributed, leased, furnished, or otherwise provided for off-site use or
entertainment, if (1) the sexually oriented material on each item is blocked
from view by an opaque cover as required under M.S. § 617.293, as it may be
amended from time to time, and (2) each item is in an area accessible only by
an employee of the business;
   (C)   Any person or organization exempted under M.S. § 617.295, as it may be
amended from time to time;
   (D)   Any activity regulated under M.S. § 617.251, as it may be amended from
time to time;
   (E)   Displaying works of art showing specified anatomical areas, so long as
no sexually oriented materials are for sale and the business does not have a
liquor license; and
   (F)   Movies rated G, PG, PG-13, NC-17 or R.
§ 154.05 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A sexually-oriented business may locate only in the CA, CB, I and CI
zones.
   (B)   No person may operate a sexually oriented business on property, any
part of which is within the area circumscribed by a circle that has a radius of
250 feet from any of the uses listed below. Distances must be measured by
following a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects,
between the closest points on the boundary lines of the property parcels where
the two uses are located. This distance requirement applies to the following
uses:
      (1)   Property used or zoned for residential uses;
      (2)   A day care facility, school, library, park, playground, state or
federal wildlife area or preserve, religious institution or other public
recreational facility;
      (3)   Premises licensed under
Chapter 112, Liquor Regulations; and
      (4)   Another sexually-oriented business.
Cross-reference:
   Sexually Oriented Businesses,
Ch. 115
§ 154.06 SIGN RESTRICTIONS FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   In order to protect children from exposure to lurid signs and materials, to
avoid the appearance that the windows are boarded up and that the property is
deteriorating, and to preserve the value of property surrounding sexually
oriented businesses, the following sign regulations apply to all sexually
oriented businesses. To the extent that the following provisions are
inconsistent with section 300.30, the following provisions apply.
   (A)   All signs must be flat wall signs. No signs may be freestanding,
located on the roof or contain any flashing lights, moving elements or
electronically or mechanically changing messages.
   (B)   No merchandise, photos or pictures of the products or entertainment on
the premises may be displayed in or immediately behind window areas or any
other area, if they can be viewed from outside the portion of the building in
which the business is located.
   (C)   Window areas must not be covered or made opaque in any way. No signs
may be placed in a window. A sign no larger than one square foot must be placed
on the main entrance door and must state, “adults only.” The letters of this
message must be a minimum of two inches high. The only other information on
this sign may be the hours of operation.
Cross-reference:
   Sexually Oriented Businesses,
Ch. 115
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this section is a misdemeanor under Minnesota law and is
subject to the penalties and provisions of §
10.99
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
      
III.   CONSTRUCTION; IMPROVEMENTS
      
IV.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
38       5-1-1905    Annexation of certain property; extension of the corporate
                     limits
141      2-10-75     Annexation of certain property
2024-10  1-2-24      Annexation of certain property; extension of the corporate
                     limits
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
67       7-29-40     Electric light and power franchise
89       4-6-53      Gas distribution franchise
90       12-7-53     Gas distribution franchise
110      6-9-67      Gas distribution franchise
123      10-6-69     Community antenna systems
157      - -         Cable television franchise; repeal of Ord. 123
163      - -         Cable television franchise; amendment of Ord. 157
169      - -         Cable television franchise extension; repeal of Ord. 127
179      11-1-93     Transfer of a cable communi cations system franchise;
                     amendment of Ord. 172
178      11-4-93     Changing the name of the franchise in cable communications
                     system franchise; amendment of Ord. 169
--       12-6-10     Cable Communications franchise to Runestone Telecom
                     Association
                    
 
TABLE III: CONSTRUCTION; IMPROVEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
13       2-13-1889   Widening and extending Washburn Avenue
33       5-23-1900   Construction of sidewalks
36       4-10-1905   Construction of sidewalks
37       4-10-1905   Construction of sidewalks
48       6-7-26      Establishment of sewer district; construction
                    
 
TABLE IV: ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
182      5-5-97      Rezoning certain property to CI, commercial- industrial
                     Rezoning Lots 3, 4, 5, and 6, Block 4, Citizens Addition,
--       10-1-12     from Residence A (RA) to Commercial A (CA); rezoning Lots
                     1, 2, 7, and 8, Citizens Addition, from Agricultural (A)
                     to Commercial (CA)
                     Rezoning Government Lot 3, Section 9, Township 129, Range
10       6-27-23     42, Parcel No. 19-0754-000, commonly known as the
                     Courthouse Grounds from Residential B (RB) to Commercial A
                     (CA)
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Minnesota Rules
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Section Code Section
M.S. Section        Code Section
7.08                151.08
12.25               32.01,
                    32.04
12.31               32.06
Ch. 14              152.36
14.57 - 14.70       112.26,
                    112.99
14.57 - 14.69       115.13
15.99               153.80, 153.82, 153.83
88.16 - 88.22       90.70
93.44 - 93.51       151.08,
                    151.40
103I.301 - 103I.345 51.06
Ch. 105             151.01, 153.03
105.37(14),(15)     151.08
105.42              151.37
105.485             151.58
Ch. 115             153.03
115.01(8)           52.01
115.07              52.01
Ch. 116             153.03
Ch. 134             31.01
134.11              31.01
157.16              112.03
157.16(3)(d)        112.03
162.359             153.77
168B.011, Subd. 3   90.15
Ch. 169             70.01
169.045, Subd. 7    76.06
169.14              91.02
169.522             76.06
216B.097            53.06
Ch. 238             113.16
260.185             130.99
Ch. 278             115.13
326.40              51.70
326.40, Subd. 2     51.70
327.31, Subd. 3     153.05
Ch. 329             110.03
Ch. 333             115.08
                    112.01,
                    112.02,
Ch. 340A            112.15,
                    112.18,
                    112.26,
                    112.99 
340A.101            112.03,
                    112.17
340A.401(1)         112.17 
340A.404(4)(a)      112.17
340A.404(4)(b)      112.17
340A.404(5)         112.17
340A.408(2)(b)      112.17
340A.409            112.20
340A.414(6)         112.17
340A.504            112.42
340A.504(3)(c)      112.17
340A.509            112.02
340A.801            112.20
347.51              94.32
347.54              94.32
347.151             94.32
                    114.01,
Ch. 349             114.02,
                    114.15
349.11 - 349.21     114.99
349.11 - 349.23     114.06,
                    114.07
349.12              114.04
349.12, Subd. 25    114.13
349.16              114.13
349.166             114.09
349.213             114.02
360.063             152.01
360.063, subd. 6    152.36
360.063, subd. 6a   152.31,
                    152.36
360.068, subd. 2    152.35
364.03, Subd. 3     115.06
366.011             32.09
366.012             32.09
366.102             53.06
360.073             152.99
379.462             153.03
412.141             30.02
412.321 - 412.391   31.04
412.341             31.04
415.01              32.09,
                    53.06
429.01, subd. 2     10.50
                    90.01,
429.101             90.02,
                    90.43
444.075             53.06
Ch. 462             151.01
462.357, Subd. 6    151.08,
                    151.09
462.357, Subd. 7    153.77
462.358             153.84
462.361             153.81
463.15 - 463.26     90.01
463.17              90.20
Ch. 505             151.74, 153.84
505.02(1)           151.72
514.67              90.01
518B.01             115.12,
                    115.13
609.293 - 609.352   115.12,
                    115.13
609.746 - 609.749   115.12,
                    115.13
609.75 - 609.763    114.06,
                    114.99
609.79              115.12,
                    115.13
617.251             115.04,
                    154.04
617.293             115.04,
                    154.04
617.295             115.04,
                    154.04
624.20, Subd. 1(c)  130.03
624.717             130.02
626.84, Subd. 1(g)  30.19
626.862             10.20
3401.414            112.44
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA RULES
Minn. Rules Part Code Section
Minn. Rules Part      Code Section
Ch. 1340              151.36
Ch. 1510              90.70
Ch. 4715              51.31
Ch. 4725              51.06
6120.2500 - 6120.3900 151.01,
                      151.03
6120.3200, subpart 3  151.21
6120.3300             151.20 
6120.5000 - 6120.6200 151.36
Ch. 7030              90.18
                      52.16,
Ch. 7080              151.42,
                      151.58
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
13       2-13-1889   T.S.O. III
33       5-23-1900   T.S.O. III
37       4-10-1905   T.S.O. III
36       4-10-1905   T.S.O. III
38       5-1-1905    T.S.O. I
48       6-7-26      T.S.O. III
49       6- -26      72.02
51       - -         92.01
63       1-18-38     Ch. 74, Sch. I
67       7-29-40     T.S.O. II
80       2-6-50      72.01
83       10-1-51     71.02
89       4-6-53      T.S.O. II
90       12-7-53     T.S.O. II
95       4-4-60      50.07
97       4-3-61      150.02
104      7-1-63      33.01
107      10-4-65     31.04
109      2-17-66     31.03
110      6-9-67      T.S.O. II
117      4-1-68      31.02
121      1-6-69      130.01
123      10-6-69     T.S.O. II
                     153.01 - 153.05, 153.15 - 153.17, 153.30 - 153.36, 153.50
126      1-4-71      - 153.62, 153.75 - 153.79,
                     Ch. 153, App. I
131      2-5-73      73.01,
                     73.02
135      9-17-73     153.05, 153.32, 153.34, 153.59
139      11-4-74     70.01
140      2-10-75     153.76
141      2-10-75     T.S.O. I
144      11-3-75     30.01
145      5-3-76      150.01
151      2-6-78      72.02
152      7-5-78      71.01
154      3-14-79     73.01,
                     73.02
155      7-2-79      91.03
156      7-2-79      50.03
157      - -         T.S.O. II
158      9-8-80      50.03
163      - -         T.S.O. II
166      - -         50.01 -
                     50.06
168      2-6-84      31.01
169      - -         T.S.O. II
                     113.01,
                     113.15 -
172      4-30-90     113.35,
                     113.45 -
                     113.47
173      3-4-91      30.03
175      6-7-92      91.01 -
                     91.05
178      11-4-93     T.S.O. II
179      11-1-93     T.S.O. II
                     151.01 -
                     151.09,
                     151.20,
                     151.21,
                     151.35 -
180      12-13-93    151.42,
                     151.55 -
                     151.58,
                     151.70 -
                     151.75,
                     151.85 -
                     151.91
181      10-7-96     30.02
182      5-5-97      T.S.O. IV
                     94.01,
                     94.04,
                     94.15 -
183      - -         94.20,
                     94.30,
                     94.31,
                     94.35
                     94.01,
                     94.04,
                     94.15 -
185      3-1-99      94.20,
                     94.30,
                     94.31,
                     94.35
187      - -         90.15 -
                     90.21
                     52.01,
                     52.02,
188      7-17-01     52.15 -
                     52.19,
                     52.99
                     112.01 -
                     112.03,
                     112.15 -
189      5-6-02      112.26,
                     112.40 -
                     112.44,
                     112.99
190      5-2-05      Adopting Ordinance
192      12-5-05     31.04
193      3-6-06      31.01
- -      8-4-08      53.01 -
                     53.07
                     76.01 -
- -      11-2-09     76.07,
                     76.99
- -      12-7-09     Ch. 75, Sch. I
- -      12-7-09     90.15
- -      12-6-10     T.S.O. II
- -      4-2-12      94.36
- -      10-1-12     T.S.O. IV
10       7-10-14     112.15,
                     112.17
- -      7-5-16      32.09
- -      - -         94.50 -
                     94.61
18-01    11-6-17     111.01
- -      2-3-20      94.36
                     152.01 -
                     152.03,
                     152.15 -
- -      11-2-20     152.19,
                     152.30 -
                     152.39,
                     152.99
                     10.30 -
- -      4-5-21      10.36,
                     10.45 -
                     10.51
10       6-27-23     T.S.O. IV
2024-10  1-2-24      T.S.O. I
                    
 
