EMILY, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-6 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 24-13, passed 12-10-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-01
   CITY OF EMILY
   COUNTY OF CROW WING
   STATE OF MINNESOTA
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF EMILY, MINNESOTA,
AMENDING, RESTATING, REVISING, UPDATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES, AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES.
WHEREAS Minnesota Statutes §§ 415.02 and 415.021 authorize the city to cause
its ordinances to be codified and printed in a book, now therefore:
The City Council of Emily, Minnesota ordains:
Section 1. The general ordinances of the city as amended, restated, revised,
updated, codified, and compiled in book form, including penalties for the
violations of various provisions thereof, are adopted and shall constitute the
Code of Ordinances of the City of Emily. This Code of Ordinances also adopts,
by reference, certain statutes and adrninistrative rules of the State of
Minnesota as named in the Code of Ordinances.
Section 2. The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following titles:
      Rules of Construction; General Penalty
      City Council
      Organizations and Officials
      Personnel Policies
      Public Safety
      Sewers
      Water
      Traffic Rules and Parking Regulations
      Recreational and Other Vehicles, as amended
      Public Property
      Health and Safety; Nuisances
      Animals
      Streets and Sidewalks, including Right-of-Way Regulation Management
      Pawnbrokers
      Liquor Regulations
      General Offenses
      Gambling
      Rental Properties
      Property Maintenance
      Land Use and Subdivisions, including 906 2nd Series amendment
      Floodplain Management
Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to subjects treated in the Code of
Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this
ordinance, except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in part in
the Code of Ordinances; provided this repeal shall not affect any offense
committed or penalty incurred, or any right established prior to the effective
date of this ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions of
ordinances levying taxes; appropriating money; annexing or detaching territory;
establishing franchises; granting special rights to certain persons;
authorizing public improvements; authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money; authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property;
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use; or
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
this repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code of Ordinances.
All fees established in prior ordinances shall remain in effect unless amended
in this Code of Ordinances, or until an ordinance adopting a fee schedule is
adopted or amended.
Section 4. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances shall be a sufficient
publication of any ordinance included in it and not previously published in the
city’s official newspaper. The city clerk shall cause a substantial quantity of
the Code of Ordinances to be printed for general distribution to the public at
actual cost, and shall furnish a copy of the Code of Ordinances to the County
Law Library or its designated depository. The official copy of this Code of
Ordinances shall be marked and be kept in the office of the city clerk.
Section 5. The Code of Ordinances is declared to be prima facie evidence of the
law of the city and shall be received in evidence as provided by Minnesota
Statutes by the courts of the State of Minnesota.
Section 6. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances, and the Code of
Ordinances itself, shall take effect upon publication of this ordinance in the
city’s official newspaper.
Passed by the City Council of Emily, Minnesota this  3rd  day of  January ,
2019.
Roger Lund /s/
Roger Lund
Mayor
Attested:
Cari Johnson /s/
Cari Johnson, MCMC
City Clerk/Treasurer
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules and supplements by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
 
   
10.99   General penalty, enforcement; administrative citations
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   (1)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Emily City Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted.
      (2)   Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of the city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance.
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. Emily, Minnesota. The term CITY, when used in this code, may also
be used to refer to the City Council and its authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Crow Wing County, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in those cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws.
   (B)   (1)   This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued,
penalties incurred or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this
code.
      (2)   The liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments,
penalties or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not
been enacted.
   (C)   In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Clerk/Treasurer and a copy added to the city website for public inspection. The
Clerk/Treasurer shall provide a copy for sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES AND SUPPLEMENTS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code
of ordinances, all future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes
adopted by reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted
by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
code was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
   (B)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code
of ordinances, all future supplements are hereby adopted as if they had been in
existence at the time this code was enacted, unless there is clear intention
expressed in the code to the contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the city’s Police Department, or the
County Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall have the authority to administer and
enforce this code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain
individuals designated within the code or by the Clerk/Treasurer or City
Council shall have the authority to administer and enforce the provisions
specified. All and any person or persons designated may issue a citation in
lieu of arrest or continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Clerk/Treasurer and any city official or employee designated
by this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may
with the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or
resident of a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or
otherwise enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Clerk/Treasurer, peace officer or any employee or official charged with the
duty of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable
cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting
the inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only
to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (E)   Every licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property
within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or entrance to
the property by the City Clerk/Treasurer or any other authorized city officer
or employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are being complied with
and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit the inspection
of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for termination of any and all
permits, licenses or city service to the property. Mailed notice shall be given
to the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of the property,
stating the grounds for the termination, and the licensee, owner, resident or
other person in control of the property shall be given an opportunity to appear
before the City Clerk/Treasurer to object to the termination before it occurs,
subject to appeal of the Clerk/Treasurer’s decision to the City Council at a
regularly scheduled or special meeting.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY, ENFORCEMENT; ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of
this code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including state statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including state statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
      (3)   Pursuant to M.S. § 631.48, as it may be amended from time to time,
in either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs of
prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
      (4)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
      (5)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section, if any
person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of this code,
the Council or any city official designated by it, may institute appropriate
proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the violation.
   (B)   (1)   Purpose. The City Council determines that there is a need for
alternative methods of enforcing the city codes. While criminal fines and
penalties have been the most frequent enforcement mechanism, there are certain
negative consequences for both the city and the accused. The delay inherent in
that system does not ensure prompt resolution. Citizens resent being labeled as
criminals for violations of administrative regulations. The higher burden of
proof and the potential of incarceration do not appear appropriate for most
administrative violations. The criminal process does not always regard city
code violations as being important. Accordingly, the City Council finds the use
of administrative citations and the imposition of civil penalties is a
legitimate and necessary alternative method of enforcement. This method of
enforcement is in addition to any other legal remedy that may be pursued for
city code violations.
      (2)   Alternative methods of enforcement. This administrative enforcement
procedure seeks to gain compliance with certain provisions of the city code
prior to any formal criminal or civil court action. The administrative hearing
process provided for in this section shall be in addition to any other legal or
equitable remedy available to the city for city code violations. If the final
adjudication in the administrative penalty procedure is a finding of no
violation, then the city may not prosecute a criminal violation in district
court based on the same set of facts. This does not preclude the city from
pursuing an administrative penalty or a criminal conviction for a violation of
the same provision of the city code based on a different set of facts. A
different date of violation shall constitute a different set of facts and a
separate offense.
      (3)   Authority to issue order to correct letters and administrative
citations. The following city employees and agents are authorized to issue
order to correct letters and administrative citations for violations of the
city codes:
         (a)   Licensed peace officers and community service officers of the
city’s Police Department;
         (b)   Building Inspectors;
         (c)   Animal Control Officer;
         (d)   City Engineer;
         (e)   Planning and Zoning Administrator;
         (f)   Fire Chief or Fire Inspector of the city’s Fire Department; and
         (g)   Housing Inspector; and
         (h)   An Appointed Authority of the City Council.
      (4)   Administrative offenses; schedules of fines and fees.
         (a)   A violation of any provision of the city code or a violation of
the terms and conditions of a city approval, including permits and licenses,
required and granted under this code is an administrative offense which may be
subject to an administrative citation and civil penalties pursuant to this
division (B). Each day a violation exists constitutes a separate offense.
         (b)   An administrative offense may be subject to a civil penalty.
         (c)   The City Council shall adopt a Fee Schedule Ordinance of
recommended fines for offenses initiated by administrative citation. The City
Council is not bound by that schedule when a matter is appealed for
administrative review.
         (d)   The City Council may adopt fees as set forth in the Fee Schedule
Ordinance to be paid to Administrative Hearing Officers.
         (e)   The City Council shall adopt written standard operating
procedures for administering the administrative citation program.
      (5)   Order to correct; administrative citations. Upon the reasonable
belief that an administrative offense has occurred, the city officials listed
in division (B)(3) above shall serve on the violator an order to correct the
violation. If compliance is not achieved within the timeline prescribed in the
order to correct the violation, the official is authorized to issue an
administrative citation. An administrative citation shall be presented in
person or by first class mail to the person responsible for the violation.
Service shall be deemed complete upon depositing the citation in the U.S. mail,
properly addressed to last known address of the person to be served and postage
prepaid. The citation shall state the following:
         (a)   Date, time and nature of the offense;
         (b)   The relevant portion of the city code that was allegedly
violated;
         (c)   The amount of the scheduled civil fine, and the manner for
paying the fine;
         (d)   The city code violation and the amount of the administrative
civil penalty may be contested to be heard before an independent Hearing
Officer by notifying the City Clerk/Treasurer or designated representative in
writing within 14 days of the date of the citation in accordance with division
(B)(9) below; and
         (e)   Failure to pay the administrative civil penalty may result in it
being assessed against the property as provided in M.S. Ch. 429, as it may be
amended from time to time.
      (6)   Exceptions to issuance of order to correct letter. For violations
of the following, the city shall not be required to issue a compliance letter
and may proceed directly to the issuance of an administrative citation as
provided in division (B)(5) above:
         (a)   Repeat offender. If the same owner commits a subsequent
violation within 12 months after a compliance letter has been issued for the
same or similar offense;
         (b)   License violations. For any license violations, including not
having a license;
         (c)   Traffic or parking violations. For traffic or parking violations
issued;
         (d)   Animal violations. For any violations of §
152.076 of this code of ordinances; and
         (e)   Noise violations. For any violation of §
152.071 of this code of ordinances.
      (7)   Reasonable extensions. Following service of the order to correct,
the city shall attempt to work with the owner to resolve the violation,
including, but not limited to, responding to reasonable extensions for
compliance. A property owner may request an extension to come into compliance,
which may be granted or denied by the city. If an extension to come into
compliance is requested and granted, and the property owner does not come into
compliance by the extension date, an administrative citation shall be issued
and the administrative fine imposed with the citation for the violation shall
not be rescinded. Additionally, a request for an extension to the compliance
deadline shall constitute an admission to the violation and a waiver of a right
to request a hearing under division (B)(9) below.
      (8)   Payment of penalty and correction of violation. If the owner pays
the administrative civil penalty and corrects the city code violation, no
further action will be taken against the owner or the owner’s real property for
that same violation under the same set of facts. If payment is made, but
correction is not accomplished, a subsequent administrative citation may be
issued, criminal proceedings may be initiated, or any other proceedings or
remedies available in order to enforce correction of the violation. If no
payment is made and no correction of the violation is made, the city may assess
the administrative civil penalty against the property owner pursuant to M.S.
Ch. 429, as it may be amended from time to time, issue a subsequent
administrative citation and commence a new administrative process, initiate
criminal proceedings or initiate other enforcement action authorized by law, or
a combination hereof.
      (9)   Request for hearing. An owner or occupant may contest the
administrative citation and the amount of the fine by requesting a hearing, in
writing, within 14 days of the date of the citation, to the City Clerk/
Treasurer. A hearing request must be made in writing and executed by the
property owner or person with an ownership interest in the property. It must
minimally state the name and mailing address of that person, the person’s
relationship to the property involved and a brief statement why the citation is
in error and a hearing is being requested.
      (10)   Administrative hearing procedures.
         (a)   Hearing Officers. The City Council will periodically approve a
list of lawyers and/or arbitrators, from which the City Council will select a
Hearing Officer to hear and determine a matter for which the hearing is
requested. The person who has requested the hearing has the right to request,
no later than 15 days before the date of the hearing, that the assigned Hearing
Officer be removed from the case. One such request for each case will be
granted by the City Council. A subsequent request must be directed to the
assigned Hearing Officer, who will decide whether the Hearing Officer is unable
to fairly and objectively review the case. If such a finding is made, the
Hearing Officer shall remove himself or herself from the case, and the City
Council shall assign another Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer is not a
judicial officer, but is a public officer as defined by M.S. § 609.415, as it
may be amended from time to time. The Hearing Officer shall not be a current or
former employee or elected official of the city.
         (b)   Notice of hearing. Notice of the hearing must be served in
person or by first class mail to the property owner no less than 30 days in
advance of the scheduled hearing, unless a shorter time is accepted by both
parties. Service shall be deemed complete upon depositing the notice of hearing
in the U.S. mail, properly addressed to last known address of the person to be
served and postage prepaid.
         (c)   Payment for cost of hearing. The cost of the hearing shall be
borne solely by the non-prevailing party. The city shall provide an estimate of
the cost of the hearing at the time of the request for hearing. The City
Council has the authority to reduce the non-prevailing party’s costs where that
party can demonstrate indigence by clear and convincing evidence. Proof of
indigence can be demonstrated by the party’s receipt of means tested
governmental benefits or a demonstrated lack of assets or current income. The
proof shall be presented to the City Council for determination subsequent to
the hearing. However, the Hearing Officer at the time of the hearing shall make
specific findings as to whether or not the party is indigent with said findings
presented to the City Council. In all cases, where the party requesting the
hearing is unable to attend and fails to request a continuance of the hearing
at least 48 hours in advance of the scheduled hearing, all costs incurred by
the city attributable to the hearing shall be charged to the requesting party.
         (d)   Hearing procedures.
            1.   At the hearing, the parties shall have the opportunity to
present testimony and question any witnesses, but strict rules of evidence
shall not apply.
            2.   The Hearing Officer shall record the hearing and receive
testimony and exhibits and the full record of the hearing shall be kept. The
Hearing Officer shall receive and give weight to evidence, including hearsay
evidence, which possesses probative value commonly accepted by reasonable and
prudent people in the conduct of their affairs.
         (e)   Authority of Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer has the
authority to determine that a violation did or did not occur, to dismiss a
citation or impose the scheduled fine or to reduce, stay or waive a scheduled
fine either unconditionally or upon compliance with appropriate conditions.
When imposing a penalty for a violation, the Hearing Officer may consider any
or all of the following:
            1.   The duration of the violation;
            2.   The frequency or recurrence of the violation;
            3.   The seriousness of the violation;
            4.   The history of the violation;
            5.   The violator’s conduct after issuance of the notice of
hearing;
            6.   The good faith effort of the violator to comply;
            7.   The economic impact of the penalty on the violator;
            8.   The impact of the violation upon the community; and
            9.   Any other factors appropriate to a just result.
         (f)   Fines for continuing violations.
            1.   The Hearing Officer may exercise discretion to impose a fine
for more than one day of a continuing violation, but only on a finding that the
violation caused a serious threat of harm to the public health, safety or
welfare, or the accused intentionally and unreasonably refused to comply with
the code requirement.
            2.   The Hearing Officer’s decision and supporting reasons for
continuing violations must be in writing.
         (g)   Decision of the Hearing Officer.
            1.   The Hearing Officer shall issue a decision in writing to both
parties within ten days of the hearing.
            2.   Any fines or penalties imposed must be paid no later than 30
days of the date of the Hearing Officer’s order. If the fine is not paid, the
city may assess the civil penalty against the owner’s property pursuant to M.S.
Ch. 429, as it may be amended from time to time.
            3.   If the Hearing Officer determines that no violation occurred,
the city may not proceed with criminal prosecution for the same act or conduct
under the same set of facts.
            4.   The decision of the Hearing Officer is final and may only be
appealed to the state’s Court of Appeals by petitioning for a writ of
certiorari pursuant to M.S. § 606.01, as it may be amended from time to time.
         (h)   Failure to attend.
            1.   Failure to attend the hearing constitutes a waiver of the
violator’s rights to an administrative hearing and an admission of the
violation. A Hearing Officer may waive this result upon good cause shown.
Examples of “good cause” are: death or incapacitating illness of the accused or
an immediate family member; a court order requiring the accused to appear for
another hearing at the same time; or lack of proper service of the citation or
notice of the hearing as determined by the Hearing Officer. “Good cause” does
not include forgetfulness or intentional delay. For the schedule of fines and
fees, see the ordinance adopting a schedule of fines and fees on file in the
city offices.
            2.   After three letters are sent, alternative method of
administratively enforcing offense and violation will proceed. Fines will
compound.
(Ord. passed 7-14-2009; Ord. 320, passed 5-13-2014)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e437a68410ebaa60cf532e3665c9e12220d813fe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1053.jpg]
 
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   ORGANIZATIONS AND OFFICIALS
      
32.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
33.   PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Presiding officer
   
30.02   Minutes
   
30.03   Order of business
   
30.04   Quorum and voting
   
30.05   Actions and documents
   
30.06   Committees
   
30.07   Salaries
Meetings
   
30.20   Regular meetings
   
30.21   Special meetings
   
30.22   Initial meeting
   
30.23   Public meetings
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   Who presides. The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council.
In the absence of the Mayor, the acting Mayor shall preside. In the absence of
both, the Clerk/Treasurer shall call the meeting to order and shall preside
until the Council members present at the meeting choose one of their number to
act temporarily as presiding officer.
   (B)   Procedure. The presiding officer shall preserve order, enforce the
rules of procedure herein prescribed and determine without debate subject to
the final decision of the Council. On appeal, all question of procedure and
order, except as otherwise provided by statute or by these rules, the
proceedings of the Council shall be conducted in accordance with the Robert’s
Rules of Order, Newly Revised.
   (C)   Rights of presiding officer. The presiding officer may make motions,
second motions or speak on any question and vote on all motions made.
(Ord. 201, passed - -; Ord. 201, 1st Series, passed 2-11-2008; Ord. 201, 1st
Series, passed 4-2-2015)
§ 30.02 MINUTES.
   (A)   Who keeps. Minutes of each Council meeting shall be kept by the Clerk/
Treasurer or, in the Clerk/Treasurer’s absence, by the Deputy Clerk/Treasurer.
In the absence of both, the presiding officer shall appoint a Secretary pro
tem. Ordinances, resolutions and claims need not be recorded in full in the
minutes if they appear in other permanent records of the Clerk/Treasurer and
can be accurately identified from the description given in the minutes.
   (B)   Approval. The minutes of each meeting shall be reduced to type written
form, shall be signed by the Clerk/Treasurer and copies thereof shall be
provided to each Council member and the City Attorney as soon as possible after
the meetings. At the next regular Council meeting, approval of the minutes
shall be considered by the Council. The minutes need not be read aloud, but the
presiding officer shall call for any additions or corrections. If there is no
objection to a proposed addition or correction, it may be made without a vote
of the Council. If there is an objection, the Council shall vote upon the
addition or correction. If there are no additions or corrections, the minutes
shall stand approved.
(Ord. 201, passed - -)
§ 30.03 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Order established.
      (1)   Each Council meeting shall convene at the time and place appointed
therefor. Council business shall be conducted in the following order:
         (a)   Call to order;
         (b)   Roll call noted by the Clerk/Treasurer;
         (c)   Consent agenda: approval of minutes, financials and
disbursements and paying of bills;
         (d)   Public forum;
         (e)   Reports of officers, boards and committees;
         (f)   Unfinished business;
         (g)   New business; and
         (h)   Adjournment.
      (2)   Public hearings and opening of bids shall be conducted at the time
announced and the above order of business shall be suspended for so doing.
   (B)   Vary order. The order of business may be varied by the presiding
officer, but all public hearings shall be held at the time specified in the
notice of hearing and all bids shall be opened at the time stated in the call
for bids.
   (C)   Agenda. An agenda of business for each regular Council meeting shall
be prepared and filed in the office of the Clerk/Treasurer, not later than two
days before the meeting. The agenda shall be prepared in accordance with the
order of business and copies of the agenda shall be provided to each Council
member and the City Attorney as far in advance of the meeting as time for
preparation will permit. No item of business shall be considered unless it
appears on the agenda for the meeting or is approved for addition to the agenda
by a unanimous vote of the Council members present.
   (D)   Public request. Persons wishing to address the Council during the
business part of the Council meeting must notify the City Clerk/Treasurer at
least three days before the Council meeting, stating subject matter to be
discussed.
(Ord. 201, passed - -; Ord. 201.04, 1st Series, passed 11-13-2007)
§ 30.04 QUORUM AND VOTING.
   (A)   Quorum. At all Council meetings, a majority of all the Council members
elected shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but a
smaller number may adjourn from time to time.
   (B)   Voting. The votes of the members on any question may be taken in any
manner which signifies the intention of the individual members and the votes of
the members on any action taken shall be recorded in the minutes. The vote of
each member shall be recorded on each appropriation of money, except for
payments of judgments, claims and amounts fixed by statute. If any member is
present, but does not vote, the minutes as to his or her name shall be marked
“present, not voting”. If any member is present, but does not vote due to
conflict of interest, the minutes as to his or her name shall be marked
“abstained”.
   (C)   Votes required.
      (1)   A majority vote of all members of the Council shall be necessary
for approval of any ordinance unless a larger number is required by statute.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided by statute, a majority vote of a
quorum shall prevail in all other cases.
(Ord. 201, passed - -)
§ 30.05 ACTIONS AND DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   Writings required. Every ordinance and resolution shall be presented
in writing. An ordinance or resolution need not be read in full unless a member
of the Council requests such a reading.
   (B)   Signing. Every ordinance and resolution passed by the Council shall be
signed by the Mayor, attested by the Clerk/Treasurer and filed by the Clerk/
Treasurer in the ordinance or resolution book. Proof of publication of every
ordinance shall be attached and filed with the ordinance.
   (C)   Repeal and amendments.
      (1)   Every ordinance or resolution repealing an ordinance or resolution
or part thereof shall give the code number and section of the ordinance or the
title and date of passage of the resolution to be repealed.
      (2)   Each ordinance or resolution amending an existing ordinance or
resolution or part thereof shall set forth in full each amended section or
subdivision as it will read with the amendment.
   (D)   Motions and communications. Every motion shall be stated in full
before it is submitted to a vote by the presiding officer and shall be in
writing and shall be read in full upon presentation to the Council unless the
Council dispenses with the reading. Each petition or other communication shall
be recorded in the minutes by title and filed with the minutes in the office of
the Clerk/Treasurer.
(Ord. 201, passed - -)
§ 30.06 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Creation. The City Council may create such committees, standing or
special, as it deems necessary with as many members as necessary.
   (B)   Notice. The same notice shall be given of committee meetings as for
special meetings of the Council; except that, personal notice need not be given
each member if the committee so decides.
   (C)   Referrals. Any matter brought before the Council for consideration may
be referred by the presiding officer to the appropriate committee for
consideration and recommendation before it is considered by the Council as a
whole.
(Ord. 201, passed - -)
§ 30.07 SALARIES.
   The salaries and meeting compensation for the Mayor, Council and other
citizen board members will be maintained in the Fee Schedule Ordinance.
(Ord. 201, passed - -)
MEETINGS
§ 30.20 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the second Tuesday of
the month at 6:00 p.m. in the City Hall. Any regular meeting falling upon a
holiday shall be rescheduled by the City Council at the same time and place.
All meetings, including special and adjourned meetings, shall be held in the
City Hall.
(Ord. 201, passed - -; Ord. 201, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 30.21 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   The Mayor or any two members of the Council may call a special meeting of
the Council upon at least 24-hours’ written notice to each member of the
Council. This notice shall be delivered personally (telephone or email) to each
member or shall be left at his or her usual place of residence with a
responsible person. Similar notice shall be given to the City Attorney and
posted at the City Hall and two other public places in the city.
(Ord. 201, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   For notice of meetings, see M.S. § 13D.04, as it may be amended from time to
time
§ 30.22 INITIAL MEETING.
   At the first regular Council meeting in January of each year, the City
Council shall:
   (A)   Designate the dates of regular meetings for that year;
   (B)   Designate the depositories of the city funds;
   (C)   Designate the official legal newspaper;
   (D)   Choose one of the Council members as acting Mayor who shall perform
the duties of the Mayor during the disability or absence of the Mayor from the
city or, in case of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, until a successor has
been appointed and qualifies; and
   (E)   Appoint such officers, employees and such members of boards,
commissions and committees as may be necessary.
(Ord. 201, passed - -)
§ 30.23 PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   All Council meetings, including special and adjourned meetings and meetings
of Council committees, shall be open to the public, except as state laws permit
closed meetings.
(Ord. 201, passed - -)
CHAPTER 31: ORGANIZATIONS AND OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   City elections
   
31.02   Clerk/Treasurer
Organizations
   
31.15   Absentee Ballot Counting Board
   
31.16   Park Commission
   
31.17   Library Board
Economic Development Commission
   
31.30   Definitions
   
31.31   Establishment
   
31.32   Composition, qualifications, terms and vacancies
   
31.33   Removal of members
   
31.34   Meetings; officers
   
31.35   Duties
   
31.36   Powers
   
31.37   Annual report
Economic Development Authority
   
31.50   Definitions
   
31.51   Establishment
   
31.52   Name
   
31.53   Members
   
31.54   Administration
   
31.55   Powers
Cross-reference:
   Emergency Management, see §§
33.01 through
33.08
   Fire and Rescue Department, see §§
33.20 through
33.31
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 CITY ELECTIONS.
   The election date for the city elections shall be the first Tuesday after
the first Monday in November.
(Ord. 205, passed - -)
§ 31.02 CLERK/TREASURER.
   (A)   The office of Clerk and of Treasurer is hereby combined into the
office of Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The Council will appoint a Deputy Clerk to fill in during absence of
the Clerk/Treasurer and to assist the Clerk/Treasurer when necessary.
(Ord. 203.01, passed - -1984)
ORGANIZATIONS
§ 31.15 ABSENTEE BALLOT COUNTING BOARD.
   Pursuant to the provisions of M.S. Ch. 203B, as it may be amended from time
to time, the City Council hereby authorizes the County Commissioners to
establish an Absentee Ballot Precinct, to be located in the County Courthouse
Complex, for the purpose of receiving all absentee ballots for any primary or
general election or special referendum held within the city. The Absentee
Ballot Precinct shall be under the direct charge and supervision of the County
Auditor and shall be administered pursuant to the state’s election laws without
cost to the city.
(Ord. 208, passed - -)
§ 31.16 PARK COMMISSION.
   (A)   Introduction. The city hereby creates a Park Commission for the
purpose of advising the City Council on all matters relating to the operation
and control of the city parks and the park dedication fees received by the
city.
   (B)   Appointment. The members of the Park Commission shall be appointed by
the City Council, and shall be composed of five members, with a three member
quorum required.
   (C)   Term. The Park Commission members’ terms shall be three years and
staggered as currently. Upon completion of his or her term, a member shall
continue to serve until his or her successor is appointed and duly qualified.
   (D)   Residency. All members of the Park Commission shall be residents of
the city. A Park Commission member who has removed his or her residency from
the city during his or her term shall be deemed to have resigned by such
removal.
   (E)   Vacancy. A vacancy occurring in the Park Commission shall be filled by
City Council appointment and upon recommendation of the Park Commission. A
vacancy occurring during a member’s term shall be filled by City Council
appointment for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (F)   Guidelines. Park Commission meetings shall be established at a regular
basis, with special meetings to be called as necessary. The Chairperson of the
Park Commission shall be elected by the Commission, annually, from its own
membership. The Park Commission shall also select a Vice Chairperson and a
Secretary. The compensation for members of the Park Commission shall be
established by the City Council. The Park Commission may from time to time
amend and adopt rules of procedure and it shall submit unapproved and approved
minutes to the City Council in a timely manner. Members of the Park Commission
may be reimbursed for out-of-pocket expenses incurred in the performance of
their duties when such expenses have been authorized by the City Council before
they were incurred.
   (G)   Vacancy. Openings or vacancies may be advertised in the newspaper and
posted at City Hall.
   (H)   Liaison. The City Council shall appoint a City Council member to serve
as liaison to the Park Commission, and the liaison shall not be a voting member
of the Park Commission, nor shall the liaison be the Chairperson or the
Secretary of the Park Commission.
(Ord. 213, passed - -)
§ 31.17 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   A City Public Library is hereby continued.
   (B)   Establishment. A City Library Board is hereby established. The Library
Board shall report to the City Council regarding the governance of the free
City of Emily Public Library for the sole purpose of documenting board
decisions and rulings in the Council minutes of the city for audit purposes.
   (C)   Appointment of members; terms of office.
      (1)   The Library Board shall consist of five members, to be appointed by
the Mayor, with Council approval. The Council may select one member of the
board from among its own members.
      (2)   The Library Board of five members shall serve staggered three-year
terms and can serve for up to three consecutive terms ending on December 31 of
each year. Successive appointees shall hold their offices until their
successors are appointed and qualified. Vacancies during the term shall be
filled by the Mayor with approval of the Council for the unexpired portion of
the term. All members shall serve without compensation.
   (D)   Officers; meetings; annual report.
      (1)   The board shall elect a Chairperson from among its appointed
members. The Chairperson shall serve at the pleasure of the Board.
      (2)   The Library Board shall hold at least one annual meeting.
      (3)   The Library Board shall make an annual report to the City Council.
   (E)   Duties.
      (1)   The board shall adopt such additional operational bylaws and
regulations which pertain specifically to the daily operations of the library,
as approved by the City Council. However, the operational bylaws of the library
shall not conflict with the City of Emily policies. The operational bylaws and
regulations will be reviewed annually and updated as necessary.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to assist the City
Clerk/Treasurer in developing a budget.
      (3)   The board, when requested by the City Council, shall consider,
investigate, make findings, report, and recommend upon any special matter of
question coming within the scope of its work.
      (4)   The Library Board may accept any gift, grant, devise or bequest
made by any person with City Council consent per resolution.
   (F)   Director/Librarian; appointment and responsibilities.
      (1)   The Library Board shall appoint a qualified Library Director/
Librarian and other staff as necessary, establish compensation of employees in
compliance with the city's pay equity schedule and remove any of them for
cause. The appointments shall be reported to the City Council for payroll and
audit purposes.
      (2)   The Director/Librarian shall have the responsibility for the day to
day administration of the library.
      (3)   The Director/Librarian shall recommend policies to the Board for
action.
      (4)   The Director/Librarian shall be responsible for personnel,
financial administration and public relations and is responsible for the
overall quality of the library service to the public.
   (G)   Personnel policy. The personnel policy of the City of Emily Public
Library shall be the City of Emily Personnel Policy.
   (H)   Library fund/assets.
      (1)   The City Council shall establish a library fund by annually
budgeting money for the library.
      (2)   The Library Board shall have control of the expenditure of all
monies collected for or placed in the credit of the library fund.
      (3)   Expenditures of the board shall be within the amount appropriated
by the City Council through adoption of an annual library budget and levy.
      (4)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall act as custodian of library funds
appropriated for operation and maintenance of the library facility. They shall
provide the Library Board an annual report of receipts, disbursements,
investments, and budget comparison in the same manner as for all other funds of
the city.
      (5)   All real property given, granted, donated or bequeathed to the
Public Library shall be vested and held and in the name of the City of Emily.
   (I)   Conformance to statute. The board shall operate in conformance with
M.S. Ch. 134, as may be amended from time to time, and may cooperate with any
regional library system that the board deems to provide the best services
available to the city and surrounding community.
(Ord., passed –)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 31.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHAIRPERSON. The Chairperson of the Economic Development Commission, as
provided for hereunder.
   COMMISSION. The Economic Development Commission of the city.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the city.
(Ord. 206, passed - -)
§ 31.31 ESTABLISHMENT.
   An Economic Development Commission is hereby established to be advisory to
the City Council.
(Ord. 206, passed - -)
§ 31.32 COMPOSITION, QUALIFICATIONS, TERMS AND VACANCIES.
   (A)   Commission composition. The Commission shall consist of five members
appointed by the City Council.
   (B)   Qualifications. The qualifications of the members of the Commission
shall be those who, in the judgment of the Council, are representative of the
community and are qualified by training, experience and interest useful for the
fulfillment of the Commission’s responsibility in economic development.
   (C)   Terms and vacancies. Of the members of the Commission first appointed,
one shall serve for a term of one year, two for a term of two years and two for
a term of three years. General members appointed after the initial Commission
shall be appointed for a three-year term. Terms shall expire on January 31 of
the appropriate year; provided, however, members shall continue their terms
until new appointments or reappointments are made by the City Council. The City
Council shall make appointments to the Commission at its first official meeting
in January of each year, or as soon thereafter as it desires. Vacancies during
the term shall be filled by the Council for the unexpired portion of the term.
(Ord. 206, passed - -)
§ 31.33 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   The Council, by a majority vote of its members, shall have the authority to
remove any member of the Commission from office whenever, in its discretion,
the best interest of the city shall be served thereby.
(Ord. 206, passed - -)
§ 31.34 MEETINGS; OFFICERS.
   The Commission will name its own officers to serve at its pleasure.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The Commission shall meet publicly in regular
session as needed at a time and place selected by a majority of its members.
   (B)   Special meetings. The Chairperson or any three members of the
Commission shall have the authority to call special meetings of the Commission.
Notice of special meetings shall be given to all members at least 24 hours
prior to the time of the meeting unless the time and place for the special
meeting is set at a regular meeting.
(Ord. 206, passed - -)
§ 31.35 DUTIES.
   The Commission’s duties are to:
   (A)   Promote the development and use of planned residential, commercial,
industrial and business sites in the city;
   (B)   Provide information to realtors and lending institutions serving
residential, industrial, commercial or business clients;
   (C)   Cooperate with site selection committees and industrial, commercial or
business leaders seeking a location for new or expanded plant facilities;
   (D)   Cooperate with civic betterment agencies interested in promoting the
potential of the city’s labor force and industrial, commercial and business
areas; and
   (E)   Cooperate and coordinate the layout, preparation and distribution of
unsolicited industrial, commercial or business information from the city to
out-state prospects with the state’s Department of Energy, Planning and
Development.
(Ord. 206, passed - -)
§ 31.36 POWERS.
   The Commission shall have the following powers:
   (A)   To appoint subcommittees of a size and nature it may deem necessary
and may enlist the aid of persons and/or organizations who are not members of
the Commission. The Commission shall have no power to make contracts, levy
taxes, borrow money or condemn property, but shall have the full power and
responsibility to investigate the necessity and recommend the taking of these
and any other actions related to the industrial and commercial development by
the Council and all other officers of the city responsible to formulate the
terms of and the procedure for the taking such action;
   (B)   To confer with and advise the Council and Planning and Zoning
Commission on all matters concerning the industrial, business and commercial
development of the city;
   (C)   To publicize, with the consent of the Council, the industrial and
commercial advantages and opportunities of the city within the city provided by
an appropriations made therefor by the Council;
   (D)   To collect data and information as to the type of industries and
commerce best suited to the city;
   (E)   To periodically survey the overall condition of the city from the
standpoint of determining whether the city has a community climate for economic
development and to determine the general receptiveness of the city to
particular types of industry, commerce or business;
   (F)   To provide the Council with information as to the general advantages
and disadvantages of industrial and commercial development in the community;
   (G)   To cooperate with all industries and businesses in the city in the
solution of any community problems which they may have, and to encourage the
expansion, development and management of such industries and businesses so as
to promote the general welfare of the city;
   (H)   To cooperate with all community groups and civic organizations within
the city and to furnish them with such aid and advice as deemed appropriate;
   (I)   To advise the Council and Planning and Zoning Commission in the proper
zoning and orderly development of areas suitable for industrial and commercial
development; and
   (J)   To develop, compile, coordinate and publicize with available funds,
information such as, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Existing industrial and commercial concerns within the city, their
addresses, types of business, number of employees and whether each serves
local, regional or national markets;
      (2)   Available industrial and commercial sites including number of
acres, approximate price, existing zoning and proximity to major and minor
arterial roads;
      (3)   Available buildings for industrial and commercial operations
including type of building, number of square feet, existing zoning and
proximity to major and minor arterial roads;
      (4)   Transportation facilities, including motor carriers, air
transportation and highway facilities;
      (5)   Electric power available;
      (6)   Funds available for industrial and commercial use;
      (7)   Sewage disposal facilities;
      (8)   Water supply facilities;
      (9)   Community facilities such as fire, police and education;
      (10)   Recreational facilities;
      (11)   Wage rates of unskilled, skilled, semi-skilled and white collar
workers;
      (12)   Availability of labor;
      (13)   General community attitude toward industrial and commercial
expansion, development and attraction;
      (14)   Experience and programs of surrounding suburban and rural
communities in regard to industrial and commercial expansion, development and
attraction;
      (15)   To advise the Council and Planning and Zoning Commission policies
and particular actions in regard to industrial and commercial expansion,
development and attraction; and
      (16)   To cooperate with and use the facilities of the state’s Department
of Business Development.
(Ord. 206, passed - -)
§ 31.37 ANNUAL REPORT.
   Upon request by the Council, the Commission shall render annually a full
report of its work to the City Council.
(Ord. 206, passed - -)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 31.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY. The Emily Economic Development Authority.
   CITY. The City of Emily, Minnesota.
   COUNCIL. The duly elected governing body of the city.
   ENABLING RESOLUTION. The resolution of the Council establishing the city’s
Economic Development Authority pursuant to the Act, and all amendments thereto.
   THE ACT. M.S. Ch. 469, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 210, passed - -)
§ 31.51 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created in the city an Economic Development Authority which,
subject to the provisions of the enabling resolution of 7-1-1997, and
thereafter amended, shall have all of the powers, duties and responsibilities
of an Economic Development Authority created pursuant to M.S. §§ 469.001
through 469.047, 469.090 through 469.108 and 469.124 through 469.133, as they
may be amended from time to time. It shall be the role and responsibility of
the Economic Development Authority to carry out economic and industrial
development and redevelopment within the city in accordance with such general
policies as may from time to time be established by the Council and pursuant to
such by-laws as may be adopted by the authority with approval of the Council.
(Ord. 210, passed - -)
§ 31.52 NAME.
   The Economic Development Authority created by the enabling resolution shall
be known as the “Emily Economic Development Authority”.
(Ord. 210, passed - -)
§ 31.53 MEMBERS.
   The Authority shall be comprised of all five members of the City Council,
who shall serve as the Authority Commissioners.
(Ord. 210, passed - -)
§ 31.54 ADMINISTRATION.
   The administration of the Authority shall be as determined in the by-laws of
the Authority, which by-laws to be effective shall require approval of the
Council.
(Ord. 210, passed - -)
§ 31.55 POWERS.
   The Authority shall have such powers as may be mandated by the Act and such
other powers may be permitted by the Act and conferred by the Council.
(Ord. 210, passed - -)
CHAPTER 32: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
32.01   Personnel policies adopted by reference
§ 32.01 PERSONNEL POLICIES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s personnel policies, and any and all amendments thereto, are
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 211A, passed 4-9-2002; Ord. 211A, passed 6-28-2002; Ord. 211B, passed 10-
14-2008; Ord. 211B, 1st Series, passed 2-28-2017)
CHAPTER 33: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Emergency Management
   
33.01   Policy and purpose
   
33.02   Definitions
   
33.03   Establishment of emergency management organization
   
33.04   Powers and duties of Director
   
33.05   Local emergencies
   
33.06   Emergency regulations
   
33.07   Emergency management a government function
   
33.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
Fire and Rescue Department
   
33.20   Fire and Rescue Department
   
33.21   Fire and Rescue Chief
   
33.22   Fire and Rescue Department standard operating procedures
   
33.23   Authority at emergency scenes
   
33.24   Investigation of emergency incidents
   
33.25   Mutual aid
   
33.26   Fire and Rescue Department Relief Association
   
33.27   Fire and rescue service definitions
   
33.28   Service fees
   
33.29   Billing and collection
   
33.30   Hardship and waiver of fees
   
33.31   Service charge on public entity property
Law Enforcement
   
33.65   Law enforcement
 
   
33.99   Penalty
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 33.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in order
to ensure that preparations of the city will be adequate to deal with those
disasters and, generally, to provide for the common defense and to protect the
public peace, health and safety, and to preserve the lives and property of the
people of the city, it is hereby found and declared to be necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters;
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between the city and other
political subdivisions of the state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions; and
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
§ 33.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT includes those activities sometimes referred to as “civil defense”
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city-level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 33.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is hereby created within the city government an emergency management
organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the city’s
Emergency Management Director, called the “Director”. The Director shall be
appointed by the City Council for an indefinite term and may be removed by the
Council at any time. The Director shall serve with a salary as established by
the City Council and shall be paid his or her necessary expenses. The Director
shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration and
operation of the emergency preparedness organization, subject to the direction
and control of the Council. The emergency management organization shall conform
to and be consistent with, where applicable, all state and federal
requirements, including the National Incident Management System framework found
at 44 C.F.R. part 201, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 33.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director shall represent the city on any regional or state
conference for emergency management. The Director shall develop proposed mutual
aid agreements with other political subdivisions of the state for reciprocal
emergency management aid and assistance in an emergency too great to be dealt
with unassisted, and shall present these agreements to the Council for its
action. These arrangements shall be consistent with the state’s Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for the
emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty
of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may
be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the
emergency management activities of the city to the end that they shall be
consistent and fully integrated with the emergency plans of the federal
government and the state and correlated with emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the state’s and city’s Emergency Plan, the Director
shall institute training programs, public information programs and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the city’s Emergency Plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to the
maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city departments
and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate with and
extend services and facilities to the city’s emergency management organization
and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or agency in
cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning and
programming of those emergency activities as will involve the utilization of
the facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that
emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency operational capability in the several services as
provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 33.05 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three
days, except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order or proclamation
declaring, continuing or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.06 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary, to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may, by resolution, promulgate regulations,
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting: the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance and safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health,
fire and safety regulations, drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training, and all other matters which are required to protect
public safety, health and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited; and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer. A copy
shall be kept posted and available for public inspection during business hours.
Notice of the existence of these regulations and their availability for
inspection at the City Clerk/Treasurer’s Office shall be conspicuously posted
at the front of the City Hall or other headquarters of the city or at other
places in the affected area as the Council shall designate in the resolution.
By resolution, the Council may modify or rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time. If
not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after
its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule or regulation inconsistent with an
emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions of M.S.
§ 12.37, as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding any
statutory or Charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council,
acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster. The city may exercise these powers in
the light of the exigencies of the disaster without compliance with the time-
consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the
performance of public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of
supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies and the appropriation and
expenditure of public funds, including, but not limited to, publication of
resolutions, publication of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and
rules, provisions relating to low bids and requirement for bids.
Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.07 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he or she would
otherwise be entitled under this subchapter or under the worker’s compensation
law, or under any pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any
benefits or compensation under any act of Congress.
§ 33.08 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The emergency management organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
FIRE AND RESCUE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.20 FIRE AND RESCUE DEPARTMENT.
   The city shall provide a Fire and Rescue Department comprised of
firefighters and emergency medical personnel for the benefit of its citizens,
whose mission is to respond to fire, rescue, medical, hazardous material and
other emergencies, to investigate the cause of fires, and to prevent fires and
promote safety in the community. The Department shall service the City of Emily
and such surrounding areas as may contract with the City of Emily for services
of the Department.
   (A)   The Fire and Rescue Department shall be administered by a Fire and
Rescue Chief.
   (B)   The Fire and Rescue Chief shall have subordinate officers to assist in
management of Fire and Rescue Department duties and functions. The Fire and
Rescue Department chain of command shall be defined in the Fire and Rescue
Department standard operating procedures (SOPs). The Fire and Rescue Chief and
the City Council shall develop administrative policies for determining
qualified personnel which shall be submitted to the City Council for approval.
The Fire and Rescue Chief shall recommend to the City Council appointment to
Fire and Rescue Department officer positions.
   (C)   The Fire and Rescue Department shall have sufficient staff to respond
to fires and other emergencies that may occur within the city. The Fire and
Rescue Chief shall annually recommend to the City Council for consideration and
approval by the City Council a staffing plan for the Fire and Rescue
Department. The size and composition of the department shall be established by
resolution of the City Council and may be changed from time to time by
subsequent resolution and specified in the city’s personnel policy. The
compensation shall be included in the wage schedule policy.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 8-12-2024)
§ 33.21 FIRE AND RESCUE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Fire and Rescue Chief shall be appointed by the City Council
taking into consideration recommendation of the members of the Department. The
Chief shall be responsible to the City Council for general policymaking and
administrative control, budgeting, staffing, directing, evaluating, reporting,
planning, and coordinating all activities of the Fire and Rescue Department,
including, but not limited to, fire protection, emergency rescue, emergency
medical services, fire prevention and safety educational services, training and
safety of personnel, and fire station facilities, vehicles, and equipment
assigned to the Fire and Rescue Department. Specific duties of the Fire and
Rescue Chief shall be prescribed in a job description prepared and adopted by
the City Council.
   (B)   For periods of absence from the city of up to 60 days, the Fire and
Rescue Chief shall appoint an acting chief. For periods of absence longer than
60 days, the City Council shall approve the appointment of an acting chief.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 8-12-2024)
§ 33.22 FIRE AND RESCUE DEPARTMENT STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES.
   The Fire and Rescue Chief shall recommend to the City Council a set of
standard operating procedures (SOPs) for operation and administration of the
Fire and Rescue Department for consideration and approval by the City Council.
The SOPs detail the organization and administration of the Fire and Rescue
Department and establish procedures for efficiently and effectively handling
operations while maintaining sufficient flexibility to allow for deviation from
the procedures when necessary.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 8-12-2024)
§ 33.23 AUTHORITY AT EMERGENCY SCENES.
   (A)   An emergency scene is under the authority of the first arriving
emergency personnel, which includes emergency medical services personnel/first
responders, until the arrival of the fire or law enforcement officials having
jurisdiction.
   (B)   The Fire and Rescue Chief, or any Fire and Rescue officer or personnel
in charge at the scene of a fire or other emergency involving the protection of
life or property, shall have the authority to direct such operation as may be
necessary to limit or mitigate the threat of injury to persons, or damage to
property or the environment, extinguish or control any fire, perform any rescue
operation, investigate the existence of suspected or reported fires, gas leaks
or other hazardous conditions or situations or of taking any other action
necessary in the reasonable performance of duty. In exercise of such power, the
Fire and Rescue Chief or any other Fire and Rescue officer or personnel is
authorized to prohibit any person, vehicle, vessel, aircraft, or thing from
approaching the scene and is authorized to remove or cause to be removed,
towed, or kept away from the scene any person, vehicle, vessel, aircraft, or
thing which may impede or interfere with the operations of the Fire and Rescue
Department. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of an offense
punishable as a misdemeanor.
   (C)   The Fire and Rescue Chief, or any Fire and Rescue officer or personnel
in charge at the scene of an emergency, is authorized to place ropes, guards,
barricades, or other obstructions across any street, highway, alley, place or
private property in the vicinity of such operation so as to prevent accidents
or interference with the lawful efforts of the Fire and Rescue Department to
manage and/or control the situation.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 8-12-2024)
§ 33.24 INVESTIGATION OF EMERGENCY INCIDENTS.
   The Fire and Rescue Chief shall investigate or cause to be investigated the
cause, origin, and circumstances of fires occurring within the city pursuant to
M.S. Ch. 299F.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 8-12-2024)
§ 33.25 MUTUAL AID.
   The Fire and Rescue Chief or his or her designee is authorized to respond to
requests for mutual aid assistance in the form of Fire and Rescue Department
resources from any political subdivision, agencies of the State of Minnesota,
and federal agencies, pursuant to M.S. Ch. 12, provided the emergency response
needs of the city are not compromised, and the City Council or its designee is
notified when Fire and Rescue Department personnel and/or resources shall be
committed to the mutual aid response in excess of 12 hours.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 8-12-2024)
§ 33.26 FIRE AND RESCUE DEPARTMENT RELIEF ASSOCIATION.
   There is an Emily Firemen's Relief Association, whose function is to manage
service pension benefits for Fire and Rescue personnel, authorized under
Minnesota Statutes, and to provide other services to Fire and Rescue personnel
of the Emily Fire and Rescue Department as deemed appropriate by members of the
Association.
   (A)   The affairs of the Relief Association are governed by its bylaws. The
bylaws provide rules for matters such as membership, meetings, election and
duties of officers and trustees, investments, eligibility for benefits, and
benefit amounts.
   (B)   Any proposed change to the Association's bylaws or articles of
incorporation which will affect the benefits paid from the Association's fund
shall not be effective until ratified by the City Council.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 8-12-2024)
§ 33.27 FIRE AND RESCUE SERVICE DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed and manufactured to
operate primarily upon public roads and highways, including semi trailers.
   SERVICE. Any deployment of Fire and Rescue personnel and/or equipment to
extinguish a fire or perform any preventative measure in an effort to protect
equipment, life, or property in an area of or threatened by fire. It also
includes the deployment of Fire and Rescue personnel and/or equipment to
provide fire suppression, rescue, extrication, and any other services related
to fire and rescue as may occur.
   SERVICE FEE. The charge imposed by the city for receiving fire and rescue
service.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 8-12-2024)
§ 33.28 SERVICE FEES.
   The City Council may, by resolution, establish fees for fire protection
service and/or emergency response which are not otherwise specified by
contract. Said fees may be established at a fixed rate for certain specific
types of incidents or for actual costs incurred by the Fire and Rescue
Department in responding to the incident. The Fire and Rescue Chief shall make
a recommendation annually to the City Council for approval the fee to be
charged for each service fee noted in this section and such fees shall be
specified in the city's Fee Schedule Ordinance.
   (A)   Chemical/hazardous materials spills. Fees incurred by the city for
response to chemical spills on roadways, and at fixed private facilities within
the city, or in other cities that personnel and equipment from the city may be
requested to respond, will be charged to the owner of the chemical, the owner
of the vehicle in which the chemical is being shipped, and/or to the owner of
the facility where the spill occurred.
      (1)   Fees shall include, but shall not be limited to, actual costs for
all personnel who respond to the incident for a minimum of one hour and the
cost on a per hour basis for each piece of city apparatus and equipment that
responds to the incident for a minimum of one hour. Vehicle and equipment costs
shall conform to the most recent cost schedules published by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency for disaster recovery, or in the event a piece of
equipment is not listed on the schedule, it shall be billed at a reasonable
rate to be determined by the city using industry standards.
      (2)   In addition, the bill for service shall include any cost of clean-
up of any contaminated equipment and/or repair of any equipment damaged during
the incident or its replacement, along with replacement of any disposable
equipment, supplies, and/or communication equipment, and administrative costs
to be established at 10% of the total bill.
      (3)   Liens upon nonpayment. Each owner of the premises receiving Fire
and Rescue Department service for a hazardous materials spill shall be deemed
to have agreed to pay for said services and any delinquencies in the payment
for the Fire and Rescue Department service to said premises shall be a lien and
charged against the premises so served regardless of whether the same be a
homestead or not.
   (B)   Wildland fires. At the discretion of the Fire and Rescue Chief, fees
may be charged to the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources for services
provided for incidents under the jurisdiction of the Minnesota Department of
Natural Resources.
   (C)   Arson, accidents due to gross negligence. Fees for services provided
for incidents caused by arson or by gross negligence will be charged to the
perpetrator(s) of the incident.
   (D)   Any party who receives fire service involving a motor vehicle accident
or motor vehicle fire will pay for such fire service according to the schedule
referenced above. Fire and rescue calls resulting from vehicular accidents on
state and county highways, to the extent services are provided to non-resident
individuals or non-resident businesses of the Fire and Rescue Department's area
of service, will be charged to the non-resident individual or non-resident
business.
   (E)   Impounding vehicles/property. The Fire and Rescue Chief or his or her
designate is authorized to impound vehicles or property related to a fire and/
or hazardous materials release and to be held in a secure location until such
time as payment is received for Fire and Rescue Department response to the
incident and/or the vehicle or property may be transported without further risk
of injury to the public or damage to the environment.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 8-12-2024)
§ 33.29 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   A party receiving fire service will be billed directly by the city.
   (B)   Additionally, if the city is aware of the insurance company covering
the involved vehicle, the city will send a copy of such billing directly to the
insurance company.
   (C)   A party billed for fire service will have 30 days from the time of
notice to pay, and if not paid by that time, it will be considered delinquent
and an additional charge of 10% will be added to the amount due. Additionally,
such party shall be liable for all collection costs incurred by the city
including reasonable attorney fees and cost.
   (D)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after the notice
of delinquency is sent, the City Council may also, on or before October 15 of
each year, certify the unpaid fire service charge to the county auditor in
which the recipient of the services owns real property for collection with
property taxes. The County Auditor is responsible for remitting to the city all
charges collected on behalf of the city. The city must give the property owner
notice of its intent to proceed in this manner by September 15 of the year in
which it certifies the unpaid charge to the appropriate County Auditor.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 8-12-2024)
§ 33.30 HARDSHIP AND WAIVER OF FEES.
   When the city determines that imposition of a fee would impose an extreme
economic hardship as determined by the city, the city may reduce or waive the
fee as deemed appropriate by the City Council. Economic hardship may be
established where a party is totally disabled and receiving Social Security
benefits or railroad similar fixed income, retirement or disability benefits,
and whose total household income is less than the annual low income level
established by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Low Income
Level.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 8-12-2024)
§ 33.31 SERVICE CHARGE ON PUBLIC ENTITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   All property within the city owned by a public entity which is exempt
from property taxation shall pay a service charge for emergency services
rendered by the city on the public entity property, including fire, rescue, and
medical services.
   (B)   The amount of such charges shall be:
      (1)   By agreement; or
      (2)   As set forth in the city’s Fee Schedule Ordinance.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 8-12-2024)
LAW ENFORCEMENT
§ 33.65 LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   An Emily City Police Department is hereby discontinued. Law enforcement
services shall be provided by the Crow Wing County Sheriff’s Office pursuant to
statute.
(Ord. 24-07, passed 12-10-2024)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
33.01 through
33.08 of this chapter or any regulation adopted thereunder relating to acts,
omissions or conduct other than official acts of city employees or officers is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 202, passed - -; Ord. 209, passed 9-10-1991)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWERS
      
51.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Control by the Utilities Superintendent
   
50.03   Use of wastewater facilities
   
50.04   Private wastewater disposal
   
50.05   Building sewers and connections
   
50.06   Use of public sewers
   
50.07   Violation; commencement of work
   
50.08   User rate schedule for charges
   
50.09   Inspectors; powers and authority
   
50.10   Administration
Rates, Charges and Taxes
   
50.25   Establishment of sewer service charge system
   
50.26   Determination of sewer service charges
   
50.27   Sewer Service Fund
   
50.28   Liens; tax penalties
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also referred to as the “Clean
Water Act”, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   ADMINISTRATION. Those fixed costs attributable to administration of the
wastewater treatment works (i.e., billing and associated bookkeeping and
accounting costs).
   APARTMENT UNIT. Rental housing quarters used as residence for a family of
one or more members or one or more unrelated persons.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing Materials.
   AUTHORITY. The City of Emily, Minnesota, or its representative thereof.
   AVAILABILITY CHARGE. A charge of a fractional portion of the connection
charge for providing sewer service to deferred or vacant properties adjacent to
the sewer lines. This charge will be credited upon payment of the full
availability and connection charge. For those properties adjacent to the sewer
lines constructed during the initial construction of the wastewater system, no
AVAILABILITY CHARGE will be assessed.
   BOD5 or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer which begins
five feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer.
Also referred to as a HOUSE CONNECTION or SERVICE CONNECTION, which begins five
feet outside the building wall.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of organic matter as determined by standard laboratory
procedures, and as expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the City of Emily as
presently established or as amended by ordinance or other legal actions at a
future time. The term CITY, when used herein, may also be used to refer to the
City Council and its authorized representative.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Any place of business which discharges sanitary waste as
distinct from industrial wastewater. COMMERCIAL USER shall not include
multiple-family rental structures or apartment buildings or multiple-family
rental buildings.
   COMMERCIAL WASTEWATERS. Domestic wastewater emanating from a place of
business as distinct from industrial wastewater.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES/SDS
permit if the treatment facilities are designed to treat such pollutants to a
degree which complies with effluent concentration limits imposed by the permit.
   CONNECTION CHARGE or DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. A charge levied on users of
wastewater collection and treatment facilities for the cost of repaying money
bonded to construct said facilities, including interest. For those properties
which have operational on-site individual septic treatment systems and are
adjacent to the sewer lines constructed during the initial construction of the
wastewater system in 2006, no CONNECTION CHARGE or DEBT SERVICE CHARGE will be
assessed, as long as such property owner(s) connect to the wastewater system in
the period of time allowed or extended by the city. For those properties which
are adjacent to the sewer lines constructed during the initial construction of
the wastewater system in 2006, and which have operational on-site individual
septic treatment systems, and which do not connect to the wastewater system
within the time permitted by this chapter and allowed or extended by the city,
a CONNECTION CHARGE will be assessed pursuant to §
50.26(D) of this chapter.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure specially constructed for the purpose of
measuring flow and sampling of wastes.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   ERC or EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL CONNECTION. For the purpose of calculating the
connection charge, a building service with an anticipated peak month volumetric
flow not exceeding 300 gallons per day or a service servicing a primary
individual dwelling unit. The concentration of the sewage shall be normal
domestic strength wastewater.
   EXTRA STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater having a BOD and/or TSS greater than
domestic waste and not otherwise classified as an incompatible waste.
   FECAL CONFORM. Bacteria common to the intestinal tract of humans and warm-
blooded animals.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of food.
   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Users which are units, agencies or instrumentalities of
federal, state or local government discharging normal domestic strength
wastewater.
   GUEST HOUSE. A second dwelling on residential property not used as the
residence of a family.
   GUEST QUARTERS. The residential occupancy of a structure, including bathroom
and/or kitchen facilities, located on the same parcel as the primary dwelling
unit, but separated from it by at least 10 feet.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INCOMPATIBLE WASTE. Waste that either singly or by interaction with other
wastes interferes with any waste treatment process, constitutes a hazard to
humans or animals, creates a public nuisance or creates any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL USERS or INDUSTRIES.
      (1)   (a)   Entities that discharge into a publicly-owned wastewater
treatment works, liquid wastes resulting from the processes employed in
industrial or manufacturing processes or from the development of any natural
resources. These are identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and supplemental
under one of the following divisions:
            1.   Division A: Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
            2.   Division B: Mining;
            3.   Division D: Manufacturing;
            4.   Division E: Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Sewers; and
            5.   Division I: Services.
         (b)   For the purpose of this definition, domestic waste shall be
considered to have the following characteristics:
            1.   BOD5: less than 250 mg/l; and
            2.   Suspended solids: less than 302 mg/l.
      (2)   Any non-governmental user of a publicly-owned treatment works which
discharges wastewater to the treatment works which contains toxic pollutants or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the sludge of any municipal
systems or to injure or to interfere with any sewage treatment process, or
which institutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates a public nuisance or
creates any hazard in or has an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Gaseous, liquid and sewerable wastes resulting from
industrial or manufacturing processes, trade or business, or from the
development recovery, and processing of natural resources, as distinct from
residential or domestic strength wastes.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER. The liquid processing wastes from an industrial
manufacturing process, trade or business including, but not limited to, all
Standard Industrial Classification Manual Divisions A, B, D, E and I
manufacturers as distinct from domestic wastewater.
   INDUSTRY. Any non-governmental or nonresidential user of a publicly owned
treatment works which is identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, latest edition, which is categorized in Divisions A, B, D, E and I.
   INFILTRATION. Water entering the sewage system (including building drains
and pipes) from the ground through such means as defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections and manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW - (I/I). The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow.
   INFLOW. Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
building drains) from sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard and area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, catch basins,
surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Users other than commercial, governmental, industrial or
residential users, discharging primarily normal domestic strength wastewater
(e.g., non-profit organizations).
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the city’s wastewater disposal
system processes or an operation which cause or significantly contributes to a
violation of any requirement of the city’s NPDES and/or SDS permit. The term
includes violation of sewage sludge use or disposal by the city in accordance
with published regulations providing guidelines under § 405 of the Act or any
regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air
Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act or more stringent state criteria
applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by the city.
   LAUNDROMAT. A commercial establishment equipped with washing machines and
dryers, usually coin-operated and self-service.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MPCA. Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations
establishing pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants in publicly-
owned wastewater treatment facilities which are determined to be not
susceptible to treatment by such treatment facilities or would interfere with
the operation of such treatment facilities, pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued by the MPCA, setting limits on pollutants that a permittee may legally
discharge into navigable waters of the United States pursuant to §§ 402 and 405
of the Act.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers,
which overflow into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface
water or ground water.
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. See Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or during which the only pollutant
added, is heat.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTEWATER. Wastewater that is primarily introduced
by residential users with a BOD5 concentration not greater than 250 mg/l and a
suspended solid (TSS) concentration not greater than 302 mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Activities required to provide for the dependable
and economical functioning of the treatment works, throughout the design or
useful life, whichever is longer of the treatment works, and at the level of
performance for which the treatment works were constructed. OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE includes “replacement”.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Expenditures for operation and maintenance,
including replacement.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
terms of grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from industrial sources prior to
the introduction of the waste effluent into a publicly-owned treatment works.
(See §
50.05(L) of this chapter.)
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
   PUBLIC WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM. A system of sanitary sewers owned,
maintained, operated and controlled by the city.
   REPLACEMENT. Obtaining and installing of equipment, accessories or
appurtenances which are necessary during the design life or useful life,
whichever is longer, of the treatment works to maintain the capacity and
performance for which such works were designed and constructed.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. Expenditures for replacement.
   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING. A dwelling structure on residential property used as
the residence of a family of one or more members or one or more unrelated
persons whether year around or seasonal.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment facilities whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
dwelling units such as detached and semi-detached housing, apartments and those
structures which contain more than one dwelling unit such as an apartment or
multiple-family housing.
   RESORT UNIT. A rental unit not used as a residence.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions, together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface
waters which are not admitted intentionally.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
      (1)   COLLECTION SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges and connections.
      (2)   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to serve as a sanitary sewer and a
storm sewer.
      (3)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (4)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
      (5)   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned and maintained by a
public authority.
      (6)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned, maintained and controlled by a public
authority.
      (7)   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer intended to carry
storm waters, surface runoff, ground water, sub-surface water, street wash
water, drainage and unpolluted water from any source.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The aggregate of all charges, including charges for
operation, maintenance and replacement; debt service; and other sewer related
charges that are billed periodically to users of the city’s wastewater
treatment facilities.
   SEWER SERVICE FUND. A fund into which income from sewer service charges is
deposited along with other income, including taxes intended to retire debt
incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater treatment. Expenditure of
the SEWER SERVICE FUND will be for operation, maintenance and replacement
costs; and to retire debt incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater
collection and treatment.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the wastewater treatment
facility which has a discharge flow:
      (1)   In excess of 25,000 gallons per average work day;
      (2)   Has exceeded 5% of the total flow received at the treatment
facility;
      (3)   Whose waste contains a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts pursuant to
§ 307(a) of the Act; or
      (4)   Whose discharge has a significant effect, either singly or in
combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater disposal
system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent quality or emissions
generated by the treatment system.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which, in concentration of any
given constituent, or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
of flows during normal operation, and shall adversely affect the collection
and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION MANUAL. Office of Management and Budget,
1972.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (SDS) PERMIT. Any permit (including any terms,
conditions and requirements thereof) issued by the MPCA pursuant to M.S. §
115.07, as it may be amended from time to time, for a disposal system as
defined by M.S. § 115.01, Subd. 8, as it may be amended from time to time.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Utilities Superintendent or a deputy, agent or
representative thereof.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition, and referred to as NON-FILTERABLE RESIDUE.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse affects as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards, and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities. (See NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER.)
   USER. Any person who discharges or causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the city’s wastewater disposal system.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the collection and treatment works
for the user’s proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance,
including replacement.
   USERS. Those residential, commercial, governmental, institutional and
industrial establishments which are connected to the public sewer collection
system.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community and referred to as sewage. From
the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions, together with any unauthorized ground water, surface water and
storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment or processes owned or used by the
city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater, or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and similar facilities; and any works including land
which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from such treatment.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water,
either continuously or intermittently.
   WPCF. The Water Pollution Control Federation.
(Ord. 401, 1st Series, passed - -2010; Ord. 401, 1st Series, passed 10-11-2011;
Ord 401, 1st Series, passed 12-13-2016; Ord. 24-13, passed 12-10-2024)
§ 50.02 CONTROL BY THE UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Utilities Superintendent shall have control and general supervision of
all public sewers and service connections in the city, and shall be responsible
for administering the provisions of this chapter to the end that a proper and
efficient public sewer is maintained.
(Ord. 401, 1st Series, passed - -2010)
§ 50.03 USE OF WASTEWATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet any wastewater
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter and the city’s NPDES/SDS
permit.
   (B)   Except as provided elsewhere in the city code, it shall be unlawful to
construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, individual septic treatment
system or other facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   (C)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes from which wastewater is
discharged, and which is situated within the city and adjacent to any street,
alley or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in the future be
located, a public sanitary sewer of the city, shall be required at the owner’s
expense to install a suitable service connection to the public sewer in
accordance with provisions of this code; provided, said public sewer is within
100 feet of the property containing the structure generating the wastewater.
All future buildings constructed on property adjacent to the public sewer shall
be required to immediately connect to the public sewer. If sewer connections
are not made pursuant to this section, an official 30-day notice shall be
served instructing the affected property owner to make said connection;
provided that, the city has sufficient evidence that the contractors working in
the city are unable to complete all the building services, the city may accept
a written contract with completion scheduled within the next 60 days as
evidence of good faith by the property owner. In addition to any other remedies
which the city may seek in order to enforce compliance with this section, for
all owners connecting to the public sewer system after 1-1-2008, the owner(s)
shall be required to pay a connection fee as set forth in the ordinance
adopting a schedule of fines and fees on file in the city offices.
   (D)   In the event an owner shall fail to voluntarily connect to a public
sewer in compliance with a notice given under division (C) above, the city may
undertake to have said connection made and may assess the cost thereof against
the benefitted property. Such assessment, when levied, shall bear interest at
the rate determined by the City Council and shall be certified to the Auditor
of the county and shall be collected and remitted to the city in the same
manner as assessments for local improvements. The rights of the city shall be
in addition to any remedial or enforcement provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Failure of an owner to voluntarily connect to a public sewer in
compliance with a notice given under division (C) above shall be deemed a
public nuisance and a misdemeanor and shall be punishable, upon conviction
thereof, in accordance with the laws of the state. The city may make the
connection as a means of abating the nuisance and charge the cost back to the
offending landowner with such cost to be collected as a user fee.
   (F)   The city may also petition the District Court for a court order
requiring the owner to connect to the public central sewer system and ordering
the owner to connect within a reasonable amount of time to be established by
the court, or for an order authorizing the city to make the connection. In the
event the city petitions the court for an order directing the connection,
either by the owner or the city, the owner shall be liable for all costs of
enforcement including court costs and reasonable attorney’s fees related to
said action.
   (G)   Any owner, as defined in division (C) above, who is currently
discharging to an on-site system conforming to the city requirements for on-
site systems, may petition the city for a two-year extension for completing
his, her or their connection to the public sewer, but in no event will the time
extension be granted if the system is more than eight years old at the time
connection is required pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 401, 1st Series, passed - -2010) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions of §
50.03(C) of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
wastewater disposal system complying with the provisions of this city code.
   (B)   (1)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
serviced by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be
made to the public sewer in compliance with §
50.03(C) of this chapter, and within 90 days of connection the private
wastewater disposal system shall be abandoned in accordance with Minn. Rules
Ch. 7080, as amended, with record of compliance delivered to the city within 60
days of abandonment of the private wastewater disposal system.
      (2)   For those properties which are serviced by a private wastewater
disposal system, and which are located more than 100 feet from the operating
municipal wastewater system, but less than 200 feet from the municipal
wastewater system, and for which the private wastewater disposal system is
deemed to be failing, or for which an upgrade is necessary for any reason,
those owners shall be required, at the owner’s expense, to install a suitable
service connection to the public sewer system in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter within nine months of the date the city notifies the owner of
the need to install a suitable service connection to the public sewer system.
Any such property owner notified of the need to install a suitable service
connection shall pay the connection fee in place at that time, in addition to
the costs required to install the suitable service connection.
(Ord. 401, 1st Series, passed - -2010)
§ 50.05 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Any new connection(s) to the sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited
unless sufficient capacity is available, as determined by the Superintendent.
   (B)   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
   (C)   Applications for permits shall be made by the owner, authorized agent
or the party employed to do the work, and shall state the location, name of
owner, street number of the building to be connected and how occupied. No
person shall extend any private building drain beyond the limits of the
building or property for which the service connection permit has been given.
   (D)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or any other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the city.
      (3)   The industry, as a condition of permit authorization, must provide
information describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics and type of
activity.
      (4)   The permit fee for a building sewer permit is as set forth in the
Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in the city offices for division (D)(1)(a) above
(residential and commercial service) and as set forth in the Fee Schedule
Ordinance on file in the city offices for division (D)(1)(b) above (industrial
wastes).
   (E)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall
indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may be directly or indirectly
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (F)   (1)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for
every building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway. The building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered one building sewer. The city does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such
connection aforementioned.
      (2)   Guest quarters ancillary to the primary residence and suitable for
human occupancy shall require a separate sewer service connection.
   (G)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent or his or
her representative, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (H)   The size, slopes, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling of the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the state’s Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. Any necessary electrical work is to be performed by a licensed
electrician.
   (I)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a city-approved means
and discharged to the building sewer.
   (J)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or indirectly to the wastewater disposal system. No person(s)
shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted water such as storm
water, ground water, roof runoff, surface drainage or non-contact cooling water
to any sanitary sewer.
   (K)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the state’s Plumbing Code or other applicable
rules and regulations of the city. All such connections shall be made gas-tight
and water-tight, and verified by proper testing to prevent the inclusion of
infiltration/inflow. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials
must be approved by the city prior to installation.
   (L)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the city when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
The connection and inspection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or authorized representative thereof.
   (M)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, alleys and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work, shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   (N)   No person shall make a service connection with any public sewer unless
regularly licensed as a contractor under this chapter to perform such work, and
no permit shall be granted to any person except such regularly licensed
contractor.
   (O)   Any person desiring a contractor’s license to make a service
connection with public sewers, shall apply in writing to the City Clerk with
satisfactory evidence that the applicant or employer is trained or skilled in
the business and qualified to receive a license. All applications shall be
referred to the Superintendent. If approved by the Superintendent, the license
shall be issued by the City Clerk upon the filing of a bond as hereinafter
provided.
   (P)   No contractor’s license shall be issued to any person until a $2,000
bond to the city is filed with the City Clerk, conditioned that the licensee
will carry liability insurance, and provide proof of such insurance, and will
indemnify and save harmless the city from all suits, accidents, and damage that
may arise by reason of any opening in any street, alley, or public ground, made
by the licensee or by those in the licensee’s employment for any purpose
whatever, and that the licensee will replace and restore the street, sidewalks,
parkways, alleys and other public property over such opening to the condition
existing prior to installation, adequately guard with barricades and lights,
and will keep and maintain the same to the satisfaction of the Superintendent,
and shall conform in all respects to the rules and regulations of the Council
relative thereto, and pay all fines that may be imposed on the licensee by law.
   (Q)   The contractor’s license fee for making service connections is as set
forth in the Fee Schedule Ordinance. All licenses shall expire on December 31
of the license year, unless the license is suspended or revoked by the Council
for cause.
   (R)   The Council may suspend or revoke any contractor’s license issued
under this chapter for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Giving false information in connection with the application for the
license;
      (2)   Incompetence of the licensee;
      (3)   Willful violation of any provisions of this chapter or any rule or
regulation pertaining to the making of service connections.
(Ord. 401, 1st Series, passed - -2010; Ord. passed - -2013; Ord. 24-11, passed
12-10-2024)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 USE OF PUBLIC SERVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be
discharged to such sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a
natural outlet approved by the city and other regulatory agencies. Industrial
cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged to a storm sewer
or natural outlet on approval of the city and upon approval and the issuance of
a discharge permit by the MPCA.
      (2)   In those situations when the installation of a city-provided
grinder station is necessary, conduits for the electrical power supply must be
installed as well. The conduit must be a minimum of one inch in diameter. As
with the case of the initially installed grinder stations, the initial conduit
will be provided and owned by the city. The conduits will also be required in
the case of replacement of the electrical power supply or of the grinder
station. The property owner is responsible for any damages to the conduit
beyond normal wear and tear.
   (B)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater disposal system or to the operation of the system. Prohibited
materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, paint, kerosene, naphtha,
benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides,
chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances which will cause obstruction to the
flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater
treatment facilities such as, but not limited to, disposable diapers, animal
guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails,
whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust,
metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops,
waste paper, wood, plastic asphalt residues, residues from refining or
processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing
wastes;
      (3)   Any wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 or greater than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater disposal system; and/or
      (4)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater disposal
system. A toxic pollutant shall include, but not be limited to, any pollutant
identified pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act.
   (C)   The following described substances, materials, water or wastes shall
be limited to discharges to municipal system to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either sewers, the wastewater treatment works treatment
process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
and/or soil, vegetation and ground water, or will not otherwise endanger lives,
limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. The Superintendent may set
limitations lower than limitations established in the regulations below if, in
his or her opinion, such more severe limitations are necessary to meet the
above objectives. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantity of
subject waste in reaction to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, the city’s
NPDES and/or SDS permit capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of
treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent
factors. The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be
violated without approval of the Superintendent are as follows:
      (1)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (65.5°C), or
causing, individually or in combination with other wastewater, the influent at
the wastewater treatment plant to have a temperature exceeding 104°F (40°C), or
having heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the wastewater
treatment works resulting in interference therein;
      (2)   Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65.5°C); and any wastewater containing oil and grease concentrations of mineral
origin of greater than 100 mg/l, whether emulsified or not;
      (3)   Any quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a
“slug”, as defined in §
50.01 of this chapter;
      (4)   Any garbage not properly shredded, (as defined in § 50.01 of this
chapter). Garbage grinders (as approved by the Superintendent prior to
installation) may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels,
institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or similar places
where garbage originates from the preparation of food on the premises or when
served by caterers;
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life, or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair;
      (6)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions;
      (7)   Wastewater containing inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate) in
such quantities that would cause disruption with the wastewater disposal
system;
      (8)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by applicable state or federal
regulations;
      (9)   Any waters or wastes containing the following substances to such
degree that any such material received in the composite wastewater at the
wastewater treatment works in excess of limits established by the Utilities
Superintendent for such materials;
      (10)   Any wastewater which creates conditions at or near the wastewater
disposal system which violates any statute, rule, regulation or ordinance of
any regulatory agency, or state or federal regulatory body; and/or
      (11)   Any waters or wastes containing BOD5 or suspended solids of such
character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle
such materials at the wastewater treatment works, except as may be permitted by
specific written agreement subject to the provisions of division (K) below.
   (D)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which contain substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in division (C) above, and/or which in the judgment
of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater
treatment facilities, processes or equipment; receiving waters and/or soil,
vegetation and ground water: or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the city may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers, pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act and all addendums thereof;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling, treating
and disposing of wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer service charges.
      (2)   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design, installation and maintenance of the facilities and equipment
shall be made at the owners’ expense, and shall be subject to the review and
approval of the city pursuant to the requirements of the MPCA.
         (a)   Arsenic;
         (b)   Cadmium;
         (c)   Copper;
         (d)   Cyanide;
         (e)   Lead;
         (f)   Mercury;
         (g)   Nickel;
         (h)   Silver;
         (i)   Total chromium;
         (j)   Zinc; and
         (k)   Phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by city’s wastewater
treatment system.
   (E)   No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any manner,
attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in this chapter,
or contained in the national categorical pretreatment standards or any state
requirements.
   (F)   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation at the expense of the owner(s).
   (G)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors, known as flammable waste traps,
shall be provided and installed by the property owner when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as specified in this chapter,
any flammable wastes as specified in this chapter, sand or other harmful
ingredients; except that, such interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of the type to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining
of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be responsible for the proper removal
and disposal of the captured materials by appropriate means, and shall maintain
a record of dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
Superintendent. Any removal and hauling of the collecting materials not
performed by the owner’s personnel must be performed by a currently licensed
waste disposal firm.
   (H)   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure,
or control manhole, with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of wastes.
Such structure shall be accessible and safely located, and shall be constructed
in accordance with plans approved by the city. The structure shall be installed
by the owner(s) at his, her or their expense and shall be maintained by the
owner(s) to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (I)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes may, at the discretion of the city, be required to provide
laboratory measurements, tests or analyses of waters or wastes to illustrate
compliance with this chapter and any special condition for discharge
established by the city or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the
discharge. The number, type, frequency and timing of sampling and laboratory
analyses to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city. The
industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the wastewater
discharge to assure that compliance with federal, state and local standards are
being met. The owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory
analysis to the city at such times and in such manner as prescribed by the
city. The owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses and
reporting required by the city. At such times as deemed necessary, the city
reserves the right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an
independent laboratory.
   (J)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, duration and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Superintendent.
   (K)   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a
sanitary sewer shall provide protection from an accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Where
necessary, facilities to prevent accidental discharges or prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the owner’s expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the Superintendent for review and approval prior to construction
of the facility. Review and approval of such plans and operating procedures
shall not relieve any user from the responsibility to modify the user’s
facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. Users shall
notify the Superintendent immediately upon having a slug or accidental
discharge of substances of wastewater in violation of this chapter to enable
countermeasures to be taken by the Superintendent to minimize damage to the
wastewater treatment works. Such notification will not relieve any user of any
liability for any expense, loss or damage to the wastewater treatment system or
treatment process, or for any fines imposed on the city on account thereof
under any state and federal law. Employees shall ensure that all employees who
may cause or discover such a discharge are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
   (L)   No person, having charge of any building or other premises which
drains into the public sewer, shall permit any substance or matter which may
form a deposit or obstruction to flow or pass into the public sewer. Within 60
days after receipt of written notice from the city, the owner shall install a
suitable and sufficient catch basin or waste trap, or if one already exists,
shall clean out, repair or alter the same, and perform such other work as the
Superintendent may deem necessary. Upon the owner’s refusal or neglect to
install a catch basin or waste trap or to clean out, repair or alter the same
after the period of 60 days, the Superintendent may cause such work to be
completed at the expense of the owner or representative thereof.
   (M)   Whenever any service connection becomes clogged, obstructed, broken or
out of order, or detrimental to the use of the public sewer, or unfit for the
purpose of drainage, the owner shall repair or cause such work to be done as
the Superintendent may direct. Each day after 30 days that a person neglects or
fails to so act shall constitute a separate violation of this section, and the
Superintendent may then cause the work to be done, and recover from such owner
or agent the expense thereof by an action in the name of the city.
   (N)   The owner or operator of any motor vehicle washing or servicing
facility shall provide and maintain in serviceable condition at all times, a
catch basin or waste trap in the building drain system to prevent grease, oil,
dirt or any mineral deposit from entering the public sewer system.
   (O)   In addition to any penalties that may be imposed for violation of any
provision of this chapter, the city may assess against any person the cost of
repairing or restoring sewers or associated facilities damaged as a result of
the discharge of prohibited wastes by such person, and may collect such
assessment as an additional charge for the use of the public sewer system or in
any other manner deemed appropriate by the city.
   (P)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefore by the
industrial concern; providing that, national categorical pretreatment standards
and the city’s NPDES and/or state disposal system permit limitations are not
violated.
(Ord. 401, 1st Series, passed - -2010; Ord. 401, 1st Series, passed 8-17-2010)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 VIOLATION; COMMENCEMENT OF WORK.
   (A)   No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities.
   (B)   All contractors must inform the city at least 48 hours prior to the
commencement of work of their intention to work in an area or property where
city sewer is located. A CONTRACTOR is defined as the owner, general
contractor, subcontractor or any other person supplying labor or materials at
the owner’s or owner’s agent’s request. The city shall inform the
Superintendent in writing of any proposed work immediately.
   (C)   All contractors must request a locate of the city utilities at least
48 hours prior to the beginning of any construction, earth moving or
excavating. Damage resulting from failure to request a locate prior to
construction will result in a fine equal to ten times the gross cost of the
repair including, but not limited to, labor, materials, engineering expenses,
attorney’s fees, professional fees, city maintenance expenses, city
administrative expenses and pumping expenses. Payment of the fees will not
constitute a compromise or waiver of any future claims for negligence and the
contractor shall pay all costs to the city associated with the repair work and
shall be financially responsible and shall hold the city harmless against any
future damage caused by faulty repair or use of defective materials or poor
workmanship for a period of one year from the completion of the repair work.
(Ord. 401, 1st Series, passed - -2010) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08 USER RATE SCHEDULE FOR CHARGES.
   Each user of sewer service shall pay the charge(s) applicable to the type of
service and in accordance with the Fee Schedule Ordinance adopted by the City
Council.
(Ord. 401, 1st Series, passed - -2010)
§ 50.09 INSPECTORS; POWERS AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city,
bearing proper credentials and identifications, shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observations, measurement, sampling
and testing pertinent to the discharges to the city’s sewer system in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are authorized
to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct
bearing on the type and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. An industry may withhold information considered confidential; however,
the industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the
information in question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (C)   While performing necessary work on private properties, the
Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the
company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees and
the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by
city employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required in this chapter.
   (D)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 401, 1st Series, passed - -2010)
§ 50.10 ADMINISTRATION.
   The sewer service charge system and Sewer Service Fund shall be
administrated according to the following provisions.
   (A)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall maintain a proper system of accounts
suitable for determining the operation and maintenance, equipment replacement
and debt retirement costs of the treatment works, and shall furnish the City
Council with a report of such costs annually in January.
   (B)   The City Council shall annually determine whether or not sufficient
revenue is being generated for the effective operation, maintenance,
replacement and management of the treatment works, and whether sufficient
revenue is being generated for debt retirement. The Council will also determine
whether the user charges are distributed proportionately to each user.
   (C)   The city shall thereafter, but not later than the end of the year,
reassess and, as necessary, revise the sewer service charge system then in use
to ensure the proportionality of the user charges and to ensure the sufficiency
of funds to maintain the capacity and performance to which the facilities were
constructed, and to retire the construction debt.
   (D)   In accordance with federal and state requirements, each user will be
notified annually in conjunction with a regular billing of that portion of the
sewer service charge attributable to operation, maintenance and replacement.
   (E)   In accordance with federal and state requirements, the City Clerk/
Treasurer shall be responsible for maintaining all records necessary to
document compliance with the sewer service charge system adopted.
   (F)   Bills for sewer service charges shall be rendered on a quarterly basis
succeeding the period for which the service was rendered and shall be due 15
days from the date of rendering. Any bill not paid in full 30 days after the
due date will be considered delinquent. The penalty shall be computed as 10% of
the original bill and shall be assessed every quarter the bill is outstanding.
   (G)   The owner of the premises shall be liable to pay for the service to
such premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the city only
upon the condition that the owner of the premises is liable therefor to the
city.
   (H)   Any additional costs caused by discharges to the treatment works of
toxic or other incompatible wastes, including the cost of restoring wastewater
treatment services, clean up and restoration of the receiving waters and
environs, and sludge disposal, shall be borne by the discharger(s) of said
wastes, at no expense to the city.
(Ord. 401, 1st Series, passed - -2010)
RATES, CHARGES AND TAXES
§ 50.25 ESTABLISHMENT OF SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes sewer service charges in order to recover
costs associated with:
      (1)   Operation, maintenance and replacement to ensure effective
functioning of the city’s wastewater treatment system; and
      (2)   Local capital costs incurred in the construction of the city’s
wastewater treatment system.
   (B)   The city hereby establishes a sewer service charge system whereby all
revenue collected from users of the wastewater collection and treatment
facilities will be used to affect all expenditures incurred for annual
operation, maintenance and replacement and for debt service on capital
expenditure incurred in constructing the wastewater treatment works.
   (C)   Sewer service rates and charges to users of the wastewater treatment
facility shall be determined and fixed in a “sewer service charge system”
developed according to the provisions of this chapter. The sewer service charge
system, developed with the assistance of the City Engineer, shall be adopted by
resolution upon enactment of this chapter, shall be published in the local
newspaper, and shall be effective upon publication. Subsequent changes in sewer
service rates and charges shall be set forth in the Fee Schedule Ordinance.
   (D)   Revenues collected for sewer service shall be deposited in a separate
fund known as “The Sewer Service Fund”. Income from revenues collected will be
expended to offset the cost of operation, maintenance and equipment replacement
for the facility and to retire the debt for capital expenditure.
   (E)   Sewer service charges and the Sewer Service Fund will be administrated
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 401, 1st Series, passed - -2010)
§ 50.26 DETERMINATION OF SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Effective January 1, 2017, laundromat facilities located within the
city shall receive a per gallon user fee evaporation credit to their monthly
sewer service charges. See the Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in the city
offices.
   (B)   (1)   Users of the city wastewater treatment works shall be identified
as belonging to one of the following user classes:
         (a)   Residential (the property owner of guest quarters must pay
quarterly residential sewer rates and the residential sewer service connection
fee per the Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in the city offices);
         (b)   Commercial (including industrial, institutional and
governmental); and
         (c)   Laundromat.
      (2)   The allocation of users to these categories for the purpose of
assessing user charges shall be the responsibility of the city. Allocation of
users to user classes shall be based on the substantive intent of the
definitions of these classes contained herein.
   (C)   (1)   The city will require commercial users to install water meters
for the purpose of determining wastewater volume. Such meters shall be of a
type approved by the city, equipped with remote registering recorders and
located at an accessible site on the owner’s property.
      (2)   If there is a chronic issue with continuous meter failure, the
issue will be reviewed on a case by case basis.
   (D)   (1)   Each user shall pay based on assignment to user class and
according to user fees. User fees will include a base rate charge that may or
may not include an initial amount of gallons used. Usage in excess of the
included base rate gallons are added to the base rate at the usage rate. User
rates are to be billed according to the Fee Schedule Ordinance, which is on
file in the city offices. .
      (2)   (a)   Water meters provided by the city to measure usage are to be
installed at the time of the Superintendent’s approval of the property owner’s
connection to the municipal sewer system. A commercial property owner that is
connected to the municipal sewer system, and which does not have a water meter
installed for the purpose of determining waste water usage volume, within one
month of connection to the municipal sewer system will be presumed to have used
the following gallons of water upon which the sewer user fees are based:
commercial, usage shall be presumed to be 18,500 gallons per month, resulting
in a usage rate, as set forth in the Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in the city
offices.
         (b)   The presumed usage rate shall be doubled for each consecutive
month in which the water meter is not installed until such time as the property
owner installs the city-provided water meter and the city is able to read the
meters for billing purposes. Usage rate fees paid by the property owner prior
to installation of the water meter shall not be refundable after becoming due
and payable.
      (3)   (a)   Sewer rates, including the monthly base rate and the usage
rate, shall increase as set forth in the Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in the
city offices.
         (b)   The increase shall take effect on the first day of the second
quarter in the year of the approval. Subsequent increases shall take effect on
the first day of the year thereafter.
         (c)   The City Council reserves the ability to modify sewer charges on
a more frequent basis if the City Council so desires.
   (E)   Calculation of basis for availability and connection charges shall be
as follows.
      (1)   Except as provided herein, the city will charge properties a
connection or debt service charge at the time such property is required to
connect to the public sewer pursuant to §
50.03(C) of this chapter. A connection charge will be allocated for a single
ERC. For commercial and industrial users, the City Engineer and Superintendent
shall determine the appropriate equivalent number of ERCs by which to multiply
the connection charge.
      (2)   Except as provided herein, the city will charge property an
availability charge if it has a deferred connection or is vacant, but served by
a lateral sewer. For the fee charged in this division, see the Fee Schedule
Ordinance on file in the city offices.
(Ord. 401, 1st Series, passed - -2010; Ord. 401, 1st Series, passed 9-13-2011;
Ord. 401, 1st Series, passed 10-11-2011; Ord. 401, 1st Series, passed 1-10-
2012; Ord. 401, 1st, passed 12-13-2016; Ord. 24-10, passed 12-10-2024)
§ 50.27 SEWER SERVICE FUND.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes a Sewer Service Fund as an income fund to
receive all revenues generated by the sewer service charge system, and all
other income dedicated to the operation, maintenance, replacement and
construction of the wastewater treatment works, including taxes, special
charges, fees and assessments intended to retire construction debt. The city
establishes within the sewer service funds, the following accounts as income
and expenditure accounts:
      (1)   Operation and Maintenance Account;
      (2)   Equipment Replacement Account; and
      (3)   Debt Retirement Account.
   (B)   All revenue generated by the sewer service charge system, and all
other income pertinent to the collection and treatment system, including taxes
and special assessments dedicated to retire construction debt, shall be held by
the City Clerk/Treasurer separate and apart from all other funds of the city.
Funds received by the Sewer Service Fund shall be transferred to the Operation
and Maintenance Account, the Equipment Replacement Account and the Debt
Retirement Account in accordance with state and federal regulations and the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system sufficient to
ensure adequate replacement throughout the design or useful life, whichever is
longer, of the wastewater facility shall be held separate and apart in the
Equipment Replacement Account and dedicated to affecting replacement costs.
Interest income generated by the Equipment Replacement Account shall remain in
the Equipment Replacement Account.
   (D)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system sufficient for
operation and maintenance shall be held separate and apart in the Operation and
Maintenance Account.
(Ord. 401, 1st Series, passed - -2010)
§ 50.28 LIENS; TAX PENALTIES.
   (A)   Each and every sewer service charge levied by and pursuant to this
chapter is hereby made a lien upon the lot or premises served, and all such
charges which are on October 1 of each year past due and delinquent, shall be
certified to the County Auditor as taxes or assessments on the real estate.
Nothing in this chapter shall be held or construed as in any way stopping or
interfering with the right of the city to levy as taxes or assessments against
any premises affected any delinquent or past due sewer service charges.
   (B)   As an alternative to levying a lien, the city may, at its discretion,
file suit in a civil action to collect such amounts as are delinquent and due
against the occupant, owner or user of the real estate, and shall collect as
well all attorney’s fees incurred by the city in filing the civil action. Such
attorney’s fees shall be fixed by order of the court.
   (C)   In addition to all penalties and costs attributable and chargeable to
recording notices of the lien or filing a civil action, the owner or user of
the real estate being serviced by the treatment works shall be liable for
interest upon all unpaid balances at the rate of 12% per annum.
(Ord. 401, 1st Series, passed - -2010)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter
shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on
conviction thereof, shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $700 for each
violation. Each day in which any such violation occurs shall be deemed as a
separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provision of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the
city by reason of such violation.
   (B)   Violation of any provision of §
50.03 of this chapter, including an owner’s failure to connect to the central
sewer system, shall constitute a misdemeanor offense, and shall be punishable,
upon the conviction thereof in accordance with the laws of the state thereunto
appertaining. An owner found in violation of §
50.03 of this chapter shall be liable for the city’s legal fees and expenses
incurred therein.
   (C)   Any person violating §
50.07(A) of this chapter shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge
of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 401, 1st Series, passed - -2010)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   Meter reader plates
§ 51.01 METER READER PLATES.
   The City Council finds that, for those properties that have installed a
water meter reader plate, but in a location which makes the meter reader plate
inaccessible to be read or located by city staff for the purposes of reading
the reader plate, the property will be charged as set forth in the Fee Schedule
Ordinance on file in the city offices.
(Res. 08-13, passed 6-10-2008)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC RULES AND PARKING REGULATIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL AND OTHER VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC RULES AND PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Authority; unlawful behavior
   
70.02   Speed limits
   
70.03   U turns
   
70.04   No parking where posted
   
70.05   Limited parking
   
70.06   Other parking restrictions
   
70.07   Declaration of snow emergency; parking prohibited
   
70.08   Overnight parking
   
70.09   Prohibiting parking areas in front yards of properties within the DMU
along the Highway 6 Corridor with city sidewalks
   
70.10   Impoundment
   
70.11   Prima facie violations
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 AUTHORITY; UNLAWFUL BEHAVIOR.
   All the statutes, rules and regulations and laws amendatory thereto of the
state, with reference to the operation of motor vehicles within the state, are
hereby adopted by reference. Violation of any state statutes within the city is
hereby declared to be unlawful and in violation of this traffic code.
(Ord. 701, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any motor
vehicle on any city street or road in excess of the speed of 30 mph.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any motor
vehicle within the city in excess of the posted speed limits on the streets or
highways.
(Ord. 701, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 U TURNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make a U turn on any public street of
the city, except at an uncontrolled intersection of a city street. It shall be
further unlawful for any vehicle to make a U turn at any intersection
controlled by “stop” or “yield” signs or at an intersection with a state or
federal highway.
(Ord. 701, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 NO PARKING WHERE POSTED.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets
of the city at any place where official signs or where appropriate devices,
marks, or painting, either upon the surface of the street or the curb
immediately adjacent thereto, prohibit these acts.
   (B)   Pursuant to M.S. § 168B.035, the Police Chief, if any, or the City
Council may appoint as many parking enforcement officers as are needed to
enforce the provisions of this chapter. The parking enforcement officers shall
be subordinate to the Chief of Police. A parking enforcement officer is an
individual whose services are utilized by a law enforcement agency to provide
parking enforcement and administrative or clerical assistance and who is not a
sworn and licensed police officer. A parking enforcement officer's duties shall
not include enforcement of the general criminal laws of the state, and the
parking enforcement officer does not have full powers of arrest or
authorization to carry a firearm on duty.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 LIMITED PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
city where official signs are erected limiting the parking time thereon, for a
period of time in excess of the time as designated by the official signs.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 OTHER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council may order the placing of signs, devices or marks, or
the painting of streets or curbs prohibiting or restricting the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles on any street where, in its opinion, as
evidenced by a finding in its official minutes, the stopping, standing or
parking is dangerous to those using the highway, or where the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles would unduly interfere with the free movement
of traffic. The signs, devices, marks or painting shall be official signs,
devices, marks or painting, and no person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle
in violation of the restrictions thereon or as indicated thereby.
   (B)   "No parking" signs may be placed by city employees on any street of
the city to permit construction, repair, snow removal, street cleaning or
similar temporary activities. While the signs are in place, it shall be
unlawful to park any vehicle on the streets or portion thereof so posted.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a person to park in an area designated by
Council resolution and posted as a fire lane.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a person to park a vehicle or permit it to
stand, whether attended or unattended, on an alley within the city, provided
that this does not prohibit the parking of vehicles for less than one hour on
an alley for the purpose of access to abutting property for loading or
unloading merchandise or other material when parking on the property itself is
not available.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for a person to park a motor vehicle in an area
designated by posted signs pursuant to Council resolution for certain types of
vehicles, unless the motor vehicle is one of the types of vehicles specifically
permitted.
   (F)   Every vehicle parked upon any street with a curb shall be parked
parallel to the curb, unless angle parking is designated by appropriate signs
or markings. On streets with a curb, the right-hand wheels of any vehicle
parked shall be within one foot of the curb. On streets without a curb, the
vehicle shall be parked to the right of the main traveled portion of the street
and parallel to it and in such a manner as not to interfere with the free flow
of traffic, unless angle parking is designated by appropriate signs or
markings.
   (G)   No vehicle may be parked on a city street, highway, public way, or
private parking lot abutting a city street so as to hinder the line of sight
for vehicle traffic approaching an intersection.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 DECLARATION OF SNOW EMERGENCY; PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The Mayor, Police Chief or other designated official may declare a
snow emergency in the city. The emergency shall continue in effect for a period
of 24 hours or until the snow has been removed from the city's streets or until
the snow emergency has been rescinded by action of the Mayor, Police Chief or
other designated officer.
   (B)   Notice of the declaration of a snow emergency shall be given by
notifying the local news media; however, the notification shall be a service
aid only and not a duty on the part of the officials.
   (C)   During a declared snow emergency or after two inches or more of snow
have accumulated, no motor vehicle shall be left parked on any street, public
way, or public parking lot in the city until the declared emergency is canceled
or, if no emergency is declared, until the street is cleared on both sides of
accumulated snow.
   (D)   During a declared snow emergency, any police officer or city appointed
parking enforcement officer, appointed pursuant to M.S. § 168B.035, Subd. 2,
who finds a motor vehicle in violation of this section shall attempt to contact
the owner of the motor vehicle and require the owner to immediately move the
motor vehicle so as not to be in violation of this section. If the owner does
not immediately remove the motor vehicle or the owner cannot be located, the
police officer or city appointed parking enforcement officer, appointed
pursuant to M.S. § 168B.035, Subd. 2, is authorized to have the motor vehicle
removed at the owner's expense.
(Ord., passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 OVERNIGHT PARKING.
   The following vehicles shall not be allowed to park on city streets
overnight: repair, delivery, rented vehicles with commercial plates and refuse
and recycling haulers or any other vehicle not registered as a passenger
vehicle.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 PROHIBITING PARKING AREAS IN FRONT YARDS OF PROPERTIES WITHIN THE DMU
ALONG THE HIGHWAY 6 CORRIDOR WITH CITY SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The construction, operation or maintaining a parking area, either
paved or unpaved, in the front yard of any lot is prohibited in any area zoned
for residential use. For the purpose of this section, front yard shall mean and
include that area between the sidewalk, or street line in the event there is no
sidewalk, and the front line of the principal building, extending in both
directions to the side lot lines.
   (B)   Use of that portion of a vacant lot within 30 feet of the sidewalk
lines for parking in an area zoned for residential use is prohibited.
   (C)   Driveways in any area zoned for residential use shall not exceed 25%
of the width at the front or side lot line. Where more than one driveway is
desired or required, they shall be at least 70 feet apart.
   (D)   The front part of any lot shall not be used for the parking of an
automobile, truck, trailer, tractor, recreational vehicle, camper, travel
trailer, camper top, tent, wagon, boat, boat trailer, storage area or motor
home.
   (E)   No person, being the owner or having control of any building, shall
violate or fail to conform to any provision of this section, or fail to obey
any lawful order of an officer charged with its enforcement. Each and every day
on which any person continues to violate the provisions of this section, after
having been notified of the violation, shall constitute a separate offense.
This conviction shall not relieve any person from thereafter complying with the
provisions of this section, and shall be sufficient cause to refuse further
building or land use permits to the offender until a time as the orders have
been complied with.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any police officer or city appointed parking enforcement officer, appointed
pursuant to M.S. § 168B.035, Subd. 2, may order the removal of a vehicle from a
street to a garage or other place of safety when the vehicle is left unattended
and constitutes an obstruction to traffic or hinders snow removal, street
improvements or maintenance operations. The vehicle shall not be released until
the fees for towing and storage are paid in addition to any fine imposed for
violation of this chapter.
§ 70.11 PRIMA FACIE VIOLATIONS.
   Pursuant to M.S. §
169.34, Subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to time, the presence of any
motor vehicle on any street when standing or parked in violation of this
chapter is prima facie evidence that the registered owner of the vehicle
committed or authorized the commission of the violation.
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   As a penalty for the violation of §§
70.01 through
70.11 of this chapter, any person found guilty of a violation of any of the
provisions thereof shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. The fine is to be defined
in M.S. § 609.033, as it may be amended from time to time, and laws amendatory
thereto; except that, a violation of the speeding (§
70.02 of this chapter) or U turn (§
70.03 of this chapter) sections of this chapter shall be construed to be a
petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. 701, passed - -)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL AND OTHER VEHICLES
Section
Generally
   
71.01   Purpose and intent
   
71.02   Definition
   
71.03   Operation requirements
   
71.04   Road crossings
   
71.05   Hours of operation
   
71.06   Minimum equipment requirements
   
71.07   Designation of public areas for use
   
71.08   Operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices
   
71.09   Motorized foot scooters
   
71.10   Medium speed electric vehicles and neighborhood electric vehicles
Snowmobiles
   
71.20   Adoption of state law
   
71.21   Operation regulations
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERALLY
§ 71.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   (1)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide reasonable
regulations for the use of recreational motor vehicles on public and private
property in the city.
      (2)   This subchapter is not intended to allow what the Minnesota
Statutes prohibit nor to prohibit what the Minnesota Statutes expressly allow.
   (B)   It is intended to ensure the public safety and prevent a public
nuisance.
§ 71.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any all-terrain vehicle as defined by M.S. § 84.92, as
it may be amended from time to time.
   RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle and any vehicle
propelled or drawn by a self-propelled vehicle used for recreational purposes
including, but not limited to trail bike, off-highway motorcycle, as defined by
M.S. § 84.787, Subd. 7, as it may be amended from time to time, or other all-
terrain vehicle as defined by M.S. § 84.92, Subd. 8, as it may be amended from
time to time, utility task vehicle, motorized go-carts, hovercraft or motor
vehicle licensed for highway operation which is being used for off-road
recreational purposes, but not including personal electric mobility devices
defined by §
71.08, motorized foot scooters defined by §
71.09, and neighborhood electric vehicles or medium speed electric vehicle as
defined by §
71.10.
   UTILITY TASK VEHICLE. A side-by-side, four-wheel drive, off-road vehicle
that has four wheels, is propelled by an internal combustion engine with a
piston displacement capacity of 1,200 cubic centimeters or less, and has a
total dry weight of 1,800 but less than 2,600 pounds as defined by M.S. §
169.045, as amended from time to time.
§ 71.03 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a recreational motor vehicle:
   (A)   On private property of another without specific written permission of
the owner of the property; (Written permission may be given by a posted notice
of any kind or description, so long as it specifies the kind of vehicles
allowed, that the owner, occupant or lessee prefers, such as by saying
“Recreational Vehicles Allowed,” “Trail Bikes Allowed,” “All-Terrain Vehicles
Allowed” or words substantially similar.)
   (B)   On publicly-owned land, including school, exclusive city streets, park
property, playgrounds, recreation areas and golf courses, except where
permitted by this subchapter;
   (C)   In a manner so as to create a loud, unnecessary or unusual noise which
disturbs, annoys or interferes with the peace and quiet of other persons;
   (D)    On a public sidewalk or walkway provided or used for pedestrian
travel;
   (E)   At a place while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
narcotics or habit-forming drugs;
   (F)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under all the
surrounding circumstances;
   (G)   At any place in a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to
endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property or to cause injury or
damage thereto;
   (H)   On any public street, highway or right-of-way unless licensed and
registered pursuant to Minnesota law;
   (I)   To intentionally drive, chase, run over or kill any animal, wild or
domestic;
   (J)   By halting any recreational motor vehicle carelessly or heedlessly in
disregard of the rights or the safety of others or in a manner so as to
endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property or in excess of 25
miles per hour on publicly-owned lands; and/or
   (K)   Without headlight and taillight lighted at all times if the vehicle is
equipped with headlight and taillight;
   (L)   Without a functioning stoplight if so equipped;
   (M)   Without a brake operational by either hand or foot;
   (N)   At a speed exceeding ten miles per hour on the frozen surface of
public waters within 100 feet of a person not on an all-terrain vehicle or
within 100 feet of a fishing shelter;
   (O)   Helmet and seat belts required as per state law:
      (1)   A person less than 18 years of age shall not ride as a passenger or
as an operator of a vehicle regulated herein on public land, public waters, or
on a public road right-of-way unless wearing a safety helmet approved by the
Commissioner of Public Safety.
      (2)   A person less than 18 years of age shall not ride as a passenger or
as an operator of a vehicle regulated herein without wearing a seat belt when
such seat belt has been provided by the manufacturer.
   (P)   All-terrain vehicles and passengers:
      (1)   An ATV operator 12 to 17 years of age may carry one passenger on a
Class 1 ATV only if the passenger is a parent or legal guardian.
      (2)   An operator 18 years or older may carry one passenger on a Class 1
ATV or up to the number of passengers for which a Class 2 ATV was designed.
      (3)   ATVs are motorized vehicles with at least three, but no more than
six, low pressure or non-pneumatic tires with a total dry weight less than
2,000 lbs.
      (4)   Class 1 ATV has a total width of 50 inches or less from outside of
tire rim to outside of tire rim.
      (5)   Class 2 ATV has a total width greater than 50 inches but not more
than 65 inches from outside of tire rim to outside of tire rim.
      (6)   Persons operating ATVs on all county roadways shall operate the ATV
on the right shoulder or the extreme right-hand side of the road, and shall
make left turns across the road only if it is safe to do so under prevailing
conditions.
      (7)   No person shall operate an ATV on county roads at speeds greater
than 30 miles per hour.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04 ROAD CROSSINGS.
   (A)   ATV operators aged 12 to 15 years may operate an ATV on public lands
and frozen waters and make direct crossing of roadways with a valid safety
certificate if accompanied on another ATV by a person 18 years or over with a
valid driver's license.
   (B)   Anyone born after July 1, 1987, and is 12 years or older, must have a
valid ATV safety certificate to operate on public lands, trails, and frozen
waters and when crossing road rights-of-way.
   (C)   A valid driver's license is required to operate anywhere it is legal
on road rights-of-way including ditches, inside and outside slopes, and
crossing roads. The only exception would be on portions of a designated trail
for that vehicle type that specifically includes a road right-of-way. Youth
aged 12 to 16 years with a valid ATV youth safety certificate and accompanied
by a parent or guardian on a separate ATV may operate on a roadway.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Hours for use are 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.06 MINIMUM EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Standard mufflers shall be properly attached and in constant operation
to reduce the noise of operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for
operation. No person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass, straight pipe or
similar device on a recreational motor vehicle motor. The exhaust system shall
not emit or produce a sharp popping or crackling sound.
   (B)   Brakes shall be adequate to control the movement of and to stop and
hold under any conditions of operation.
   (C)   At least one clear lamp shall be attached to the front with sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead during the hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions. The
head lamp shall be so that glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of an
oncoming vehicle operator. It shall also be equipped with at least one red tail
lamp having a minimum candlepower of sufficient intensity to exhibit a red
light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear during the hours
of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions. This equipment shall be
required and shall be in operating condition when the vehicle is operated
between the hours of one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before
sunrise, or at times of reduced visibility.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.07 DESIGNATION OF PUBLIC AREAS FOR USE.
   (A)   The Council may designate areas and exclusive city streets for use of
recreational motor vehicles by approval of a resolution by a majority of the
members of the City Council. The areas designated may be changed from time to
time by the City Council. Any area designated shall be published in the
official newspaper of the city in a conspicuous place after the approval. If an
area is changed, the change shall be published in like manner in the official
newspaper of the city. An up-to-date map of any designated park areas open for
recreational motor vehicle use shall be kept on file in the office of the City
Clerk/Treasurer, who shall provide on request a copy of the map together with
the applicable rules, regulations and this subchapter to each person requesting
the information from the city.
   (B)   Unless designated by the City Council as an area for recreational
motor vehicles, the use on city park property and city streets shall be
unlawful. Further, the use of city parks designated by the City Council shall
be in accordance with all of the applicable provisions of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.08 OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   Definition. ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE means a self-
balancing device with two nontandem wheels, designed to transport not more than
one person, and operated by an electric propulsion system that limits the
maximum speed of the device to 15 miles per hour.
   (B)   Rights and responsibilities. Except as otherwise provided by law, a
person operating an electric personal assistive mobility device has the rights
and responsibilities of a pedestrian.
   (C)   Operation.
      (1)   Bicycle path. An electric personal assistive mobility device may be
operated on a bicycle path.
      (2)   Speed; duty of care in operation. No person may operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device on a roadway, sidewalk, or bicycle path at a
rate of speed that is not reasonable and prudent under the conditions. Every
person operating an electric personal assistive mobility device on a roadway,
sidewalk, or bicycle path is responsible for becoming and remaining aware of
the actual and potential hazards then existing on the roadway or sidewalk and
must use due care in operating the device.
      (3)   Roadway operation requirements. An electric personal assistive
mobility device may be operated on a roadway only under the following
circumstances:
         (a)   While making a direct crossing of a roadway in a marked or
unmarked crosswalk;
         (b)   Where no sidewalk is available;
         (c)   Where a sidewalk is so obstructed as to prevent safe use;
         (d)   When so directed by a traffic control device or by a peace
officer; or
         (e)   Temporarily in order to gain access to a motor vehicle;
         (f)   An electric personal assistive mobility device may not be
operated at any time on a roadway with a speed limit of more than 35 miles per
hour except to make a direct crossing of the roadway in a marked crosswalk;
         (g)   As provided in division (7) below by Council resolution.
      (4)   Permitted to carry one person. An electric personal assistive
mobility device may not be operated at any time while carrying more than one
person.
      (5)   Pedestrians and bicycles. A person operating an electric personal
assistive mobility device on a sidewalk must yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians at all times. A person operating an electric personal assistive
mobility device on a bicycle path must yield the right-of-way to bicycles at
all times.
      (6)   Reflectorized material. An electric personal assistive mobility
device may not be operated unless the device bears reflectorized material on
the front, back, and wheels, visible at night from 600 feet when illuminated by
the lower beams of headlamps of a motor vehicle.
      (7)   Designated exclusive city streets. The City Council may, by
resolution, designate exclusive city streets within its jurisdiction where the
operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices is permissible,
provided that no street so designated has a speed limit of more than 35 miles
per hour.
§ 71.09 MOTORIZED FOOT SCOOTERS.
   (A)   MOTORIZED FOOT SCOOTER means a device with handlebars designed to be
stood or sat upon by the operator, and powered by an internal combustion engine
or electric motor that is capable of propelling the device with or without
human propulsion, and that has no more than two 12-inch or smaller diameter
wheels and has an engine or motor that is capable of a maximum speed of 15
miles per hour on a flat surface with not more than 1% grade in any direction
when the motor is engaged. An electric personal assistive mobility device, a
motorized bicycle, an electric-assisted bicycle, or a motorcycle is not a
motorized foot scooter.
   (B)   Operation of a motorized foot scooter on city bicycle paths, bicycle
lanes, bicycle trails, or bikeways is prohibited except as provided in division
(C) below.
   (C)   The City Council may by resolution designate specific bicycle paths,
bicycle lanes, bicycle trails, or bikeways as available for use by motorized
foot scooters.
   (D)   Every person operating a motorized foot scooter shall have all rights
and duties applicable to the operator of a bicycle, except in respect to those
provisions relating expressly to motorized foot scooters and in respect to
those provisions of law that by their nature cannot reasonably be applied to
motorized foot scooters.
   (E)   No person may operate a motorized foot scooter upon a sidewalk, except
when necessary to enter or leave adjacent property. No person may operate a
motorized foot scooter that is carrying any person other than the operator.
   (F)   No person under the age of 12 years may operate a motorized foot
scooter.
   (G)   No person under the age of 18 years may operate a motorized foot
scooter without wearing properly fitted and fastened protective headgear that
complies with standards established by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
   (H)   A motorized foot scooter must be equipped with a headlight and a
taillight that comply with standards established by the Commissioner of Public
Safety if the vehicle is operated under conditions when vehicle lights are
required by law.
   (I)   A person operating a motorized foot scooter on a roadway shall ride as
close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except in
the following situations;
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction;
      (2)   When preparing for a left turn, in which case the operator shall
stop and dismount at the right-hand curb or right edge of the roadway, and
shall complete the turn by crossing the roadway on foot, subject to
restrictions placed by law on pedestrians; or
      (3)   When reasonably necessary to avoid impediments or conditions that
make it unsafe to continue along the right-hand curb or edge, including, but
not limited to, fixed or moving objects, vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians,
animals, surface hazards, or narrow lanes.
§ 71.10 MEDIUM SPEED ELECTRIC VEHICLES AND NEIGHBORHOOD ELECTRIC VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. 
      (1)   MEDIUM SPEED ELECTRIC VEHICLE means an electrically powered four-
wheeled motor vehicle, equipped with a roll cage or crushproof body design,
that can attain a maximum speed of 35 miles per hour on a paved level surface,
is fully enclosed and has at least one door for entry, has a wheelbase of 40
inches or greater and a wheel diameter of ten inches or greater, and except
with respect to maximum speed, otherwise meets or exceeds regulations in 49
C.F.R. § 571.500, and successor requirements.
      (2)   NEIGHBORHOOD ELECTRIC VEHICLE means an electrically powered motor
vehicle that has four wheels, and has a speed attainable in one mile of at
least 20 miles per hour but not more than 25 miles per hour on a paved level
surface.
   (B)   Operation on city streets. Operation of neighborhood electric vehicles
and medium speed electric vehicles on city streets is prohibited except as
provided in (C) below.
   (C)   Use on designated exclusive city streets. The City Council may, by
resolution, designate exclusive city streets within its jurisdiction where the
operation of neighborhood electric vehicles or medium speed electric vehicles
is permissible, provided that no street so designated has a speed limit of more
than 35 miles per hour.
   (D)   Operation on public streets and highways; requirements. A neighborhood
electric vehicle or a medium-speed electric vehicle may be operated on public
streets and highways only if it meets all equipment and vehicle safety
requirements in 49 C.F.R. § 571.500, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   City owned neighborhood electric vehicles and medium speed electric
vehicles; use by city staff. Authorized city staff may operate city owned
neighborhood electric vehicles and medium speed electric vehicles within the
city on city streets, sidewalks, trails, rights-of-way and public property when
conducting city business.
SNOWMOBILES
§ 71.20 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   M.S. §§ 84.81 through 84.00, as they may be amended from time to time,
together with Conservation Department regulations adopted in accordance with
abovenamed statutes, are hereby adopted by reference for the regulation and
control of snowmobiles within the city limits.
(Ord. 702, passed - -)
§ 71.21 OPERATION REGULATIONS.
   It is unlawful for the owner of a snowmobile to permit the snowmobile to be
operated contrary to the provisions of this section:
   (A)   At any place while under the influence of alcohol or drugs, as defined
in M.S. Ch. 169A, as it may be amended from time to time, which is hereby
incorporated herein by reference;
   (B)   In any place in a careless, reckless or negligent manner or heedlessly
in disregard of the rights or safety of others, or in a manner so as to
endanger or be likely to endanger or cause injury or damage to any person or
property;
   (C)   During the hours of 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. of any day, closer than
100 feet to any dwelling which is usually occupied by one or more persons,
except when the snowmobile operator is proceeding over the shortest route to
his or her residence;
   (D)   So as to tow any person or thing in a public street or highway, except
through use of a rigid towbar attached to the rear of the snowmobile; and/or
   (E)   Within 100 feet of any fisherman, pedestrian, skating rink or sliding
area where the operation could conflict with use or endanger other persons or
property.
(Ord. 702, passed - -) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Every person convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of §§
71.20 and
71.21 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall pay a fine to
be as defined in M.S. § 609.033, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 702, passed - -)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 90: PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Pine Ridge Cemetery
   
90.02   City parks
   
90.03   City Hall
Water Surface Use
   
90.15   Purpose, intent and application
   
90.16   Definitions
   
90.17   Surface zoning of Ruth Lake; speeds
   
90.18   Enforcement
   
90.19   Exceptions
Vacations
   
90.30   Scope
   
90.31   Definition
   
90.32   Petitions and submissions
   
90.33   Road vacation procedure
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 PINE RIDGE CEMETERY.
    The following regulations and rules are hereby adopted for the management,
operation and maintenance of Pine Ridge Cemetery, owned by the city and located
in Section 28, Township 138 North, Range 26 West.
   (A)   No plot enclosures such as fences, hedges, curbs and the like shall be
here in after constructed.
   (B)   All graves shall be level with the ground; mounds being prohibited.
   (C)   No automobiles, trucks, wagons or other vehicles shall drive on any
cemetery plots.
   (D)   Plank or other protecting materials shall be placed on the plots
before heavy materials are moved over or onto them.
   (E)   No advertising of any form shall be displayed in the cemetery.
   (F)   No flowers, either wild or cultivated, shall be picked in the
cemetery. No trees or shrubs or other plants shall be marred and no monument or
stone shall be damaged or broken into.
   (G)   All domestic animals must be under restraint and in control while in
the cemetery.
   (H)   No refreshments or liquors of any kind shall be taken into or consumed
in the cemetery.
   (I)   There will be no hunting or target shooting allowed within the
cemetery boundaries. Removal of nuisance animals will be authorized by the City
Council.
   (J)   There shall be no motorized recreational vehicles within the cemetery
other than those used for cemetery purposes.
   (K)   All monuments shall be placed in the center, at either end of the
plots on foundations. No foundation shall extend above the level of the
surrounding ground.
   (L)   No persons shall open or close any grave, except under the supervision
of the person/persons appointed by the City Council in charge of the cemetery
maintenance.
   (M)   No unauthorized person shall make any excavation, or place any
monument, except under supervision of the person/persons appointed by the City
Council in charge of the cemetery.
   (N)   All burials shall be in permanent vaults or grave boxes of permanent
materials into which the caskets are deposited, excluding wood. Due to ground
conditions, there will be no new approval for stacking.
   (O)   Cemetery plot owners must provide prior authorization for any burial
in their deeded plot.
   (P)   The cemetery shall be closed to the public between sundown and sunrise
each day.
   (Q)   Cemetery mausoleums are hereby prohibited.
   (R)   Plots cannot be purchased and resold for profit. Plots can only be
resold back to the city at purchased price.
   (S)   Minors must be accompanied and supervised by an adult.
   (T)   All cemetery fees will be charged as set forth in the Fee Schedule
Ordinance on file in the city offices.
(Ord. 301, passed - -; Ord. 24-09, passed 12-10-2024)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.S. § 306.15(b) and (c)
§ 90.02 CITY PARKS.
   (A)   Vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle,
motor vehicle, ATV, mini-bike, motorcycle or dune buggy on any highway lane or
street in any city park in excess of ten mph and no vehicle, motor vehicle,
mini-bike, motorcycle or dune buggy shall be allowed anywhere in any city park,
except on an established road lane or street or parking area.
   (B)   Animals. It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any horse, owned
or controlled by said person, to enter any city park. It shall further be
unlawful for any person to allow any pet owned by said person to be within any
public eating place or on any swimming beach in any city park or to allow any
pet owned by said person to be within the city park, except when under physical
restrictive control.
   (C)   Camping. The pitching of tents, parking of trailers or other camping
units will be permitted only at such areas in the city parks as the City
Council shall from time to time designate and, then, only after such camping
fees as set forth in the Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in the city offices.
   (D)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   Because city parks are provided for the use and enjoyment of the
general public, it shall be unlawful for any person to litter, commit
vandalism, destroy or misuse any property in the city parks.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to deposit dishwater, garbage, refuse or any
human excretion on any city park ground.
(Ord. 302, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CITY HALL.
   The following regulations and rules are hereby adopted for management,
operation and maintenance of the City Hall, which includes the City Clerk/
Treasurer’s office, fire hall, auditorium and kitchen.
   (A)   The City Council hereby prohibits private use of city equipment or
facilities, except upon a determination by the City Council, fully detailed in
the minutes, that such use is primarily for a public purpose and stating what
purpose.
   (B)   There will be no storage of private vehicles in or on city property.
   (C)   (1)   Any person or group of persons wishing the use of the City Hall
must make application to the City Clerk/Treasurer.
      (2)   This application will be made on a written form provided by the
city. The rates and deposits will be determined from time to time by the City
Council as set forth in the Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in the city offices.
All rules and regulations on this form must be abided by.
(Ord. 303, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
WATER SURFACE USE
§ 90.15 PURPOSE, INTENT AND APPLICATION.
   As authorized by M.S. §§ 86B.201, 86B.205 and 459.20, as they may be amended
from time to time, and Minn. Rules parts 6110.3000 through 6110.3800, as now in
effect and as hereafter amended, this subchapter is enacted for the purpose and
with the intent:
   (A)   To control and regulate the use of the waters of Ruth Lake, said body
of water being located entirely within the boundaries of the city;
   (B)   To promote its fullest use and enjoyment by the public in general and
the citizens of the city in particular;
   (C)   To ensure safety for persons and property in connection with the use
of said waters;
   (D)   To harmonize and integrate the varying uses of said waters; and
   (E)   To promote the general health, safety and welfare of the citizens of
the city.
(Ord. 703, passed 3-26-2001)
§ 90.16 DEFINITIONS.
   Terms used in this subchapter related to boating are defined in M.S. §
86B.005, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 703, passed 3-26-2001)
§ 90.17 SURFACE ZONING OF RUTH LAKE; SPEEDS.
   (A)   (1)   “Slow-no wake” speed shall be 24 hours per day in the area of
the bay area located on Ruth Lake between a stake located at the northern most
point of the peninsula westerly to the northeast corner stake of Lot 11,
Crockett Shores Subdivision.
      (2)   Such restrictions shall become effective upon publication in a
local daily newspaper as a news item or on a specified date, whichever is
later. All public watercraft accesses shall be posted prior to and during the
time restrictions are in place.
   (B)   In addition, notice of said restrictions shall also be posted at the
City Hall.
(Ord. 703, passed 3-26-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 ENFORCEMENT.
   The primary responsibility for enforcement of this subchapter shall rest
with the County Sheriff’s Department. This, however, shall not preclude
enforcement by other licensed peace officers.
(Ord. 703, passed 3-26-2001)
§ 90.19 EXCEPTIONS.
   All authorized resource management, emergency and enforcement personnel,
while acting in the performance of their assigned duties, are exempt from the
foregoing restrictions.
(Ord. 703, passed 3-26-2001)
VACATIONS
§ 90.30 SCOPE.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, the method of vacating
roads and streets, as provided herein, shall apply to all property located
within the city.
(Ord. 705, 2nd Series, passed 5-10-2005)
§ 90.31 DEFINITION.
   The word CITY shall mean the City of Emily, Minnesota.
(Ord. 705, 2nd Series, passed 5-10-2005)
§ 90.32 PETITIONS AND SUBMISSIONS.
   The city has determined that it is in the best interests of the city that
all street and road vacation petitions be submitted to and determined, by the
city.
(Ord. 705, 2nd Series, passed 5-10-2005)
§ 90.33 ROAD VACATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The following procedure shall be followed for all petitions for
vacation of streets, alleys, public grounds, public ways, plats and/or
auditor’s subdivisions located with the city.
      (1)   Vacation by city.
         (a)   The City Council may, by resolution, vacate any street, alley,
public ground, public way or any part thereof upon its own motion after a four-
fifths vote of all members of the City Council.
         (b)   The City Council shall not vacate any such street, alley, public
ground, public way or any part thereof, unless it appears in the interest of
the public following a hearing preceded by two weeks’ published and posted
notice.
         (c)   1.   The Council shall cause written notice of the hearing, at
least ten days before the hearing, to be mailed to:
               a.   Each property owner whose property abuts the area sought to
be vacated;
               b.   Those persons who own property within the plat, if the area
sought to be vacated is located within a plat; and
               c.   All property owners within 350 feet of the area sought to
be vacated.
            2.   The notice must contain, at a minimum, a copy of the proposed
resolution as well as the time, place and date of hearing.
         (d)   If the street, alley, public ground, public way or any part
thereof terminates at or abuts upon any public water, no vacation shall be
made, unless written notice of the proposed resolution is served by certified
mail upon the Commissioner of Natural Resources at least 30 days before the
hearing on the matter. The notice to the Commissioner of Natural Resources is
for notification purposes only and does not create a right of intervention by
the Commissioner.
         (e)   If, following a hearing, the Council adopts a resolution
vacating a street, alley, public ground, public way or any part thereof, the
Clerk/Treasurer shall prepare a notice of completion of the proceedings, which
shall contain the name of the city and identification of the vacation, a
statement of the time of completion thereof and a description of the real
estate and lands affected thereby. The notice shall be presented to the
county’s Auditor, who shall enter the same in the transfer records and note
upon the instrument, over official signature, the words “entered in the
transfer record”. The notice shall then be filed with the county’s Recorder.
Any failure to file the notice shall not invalidate any such vacation
proceedings.
      (2)   Vacation by petition.
         (a)   A majority of the owners of land, on a front footage basis,
abutting a street, alley, public ground, public way or part thereof may submit
a petition to vacate such street, alley, public ground, public way or part
thereof.
         (b)   A petition to vacate shall be accompanied by a non-refundable
application fee as set forth in the Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in the city
offices. The applicant shall file the petition and required application fee
with the City Clerk/Treasurer, who shall schedule the matter for hearing before
the City Council.
         (c)   The applicant shall provide a list of the property owners to be
affected by the proposed vacation along with a current mailing address for each
such property owner. The applicant shall provide the city with mailing labels
containing the name and address of the property owners to be affected, which
mailing labels are available at the County Auditor’s office. The property
owners to be affected includes:
            1.   Each property owner whose property abuts the area sought to be
vacated;
            2.   Those persons who own property within the plat; and
            3.   All property owners within 350 feet of the area sought to be
vacated.
         (d)   1.   The city shall cause written notice of the hearing to be
mailed to each property owner affected by the proposed vacation, identified by
the applicant as provided in division (A)(2)(b) above, at least ten days before
the hearing before the City Council. Property owners to be affected includes:
               a.   Each property owner whose property abuts the area sought to
be vacated;
               b.   Those persons who own property within the plat, if the area
sought to be vacated is located within a plat; and
               c.   All property owners within 350 feet of the area sought to
be vacated.
            2.   The notice must contain, at a minimum, a copy of the proposed
resolution as well as the time, place and date of hearing.
         (e)   The City Council may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the
members of the Council, adopt a resolution vacating a street, alley, public
ground, public way or any part thereof if it appears in the interest of the
public to be necessary following a hearing proceeded by two weeks’ published
and posted notice.
         (f)   If the street, alley, public ground, public way or any part
thereof terminates at or abuts upon any public water, no vacation shall be
made, unless written notice of the proposed resolution is served by certified
mail upon the Commissioner of Natural Resources at least 60 days before the
hearing on the matter. The notice to the Commissioner of Natural Resources is
for notification purposes only and does not create a right of intervention by
the Commissioner.
         (g)   If, following a hearing, the Council adopts a resolution
vacating a street alley, public ground, public way or any part thereof, the
Clerk/Treasurer shall prepare a notice of completion of the proceedings, which
shall contain the name of the city and identification of the vacation, a
statement of the time of completion thereof and a description of the real
estate and lands affected thereby. The notice shall be presented to the
county’s Auditor, who shall enter the same in the transfer records and note
upon the instrument over official signature, the words “entered in the transfer
record”. The notice shall then be filed with the county’s Recorder. Any failure
to file the notice shall not invalidate any such vacation proceedings.
   (B)   With respect to streets or alleys connecting separate plats or lines
between blocks or lots or providing access for the public to any public water,
the Council shall not vacate any such street or alleyway, unless it appear that
the street or alleyway or part thereof sought to be vacated is useless for the
purpose for which it was laid out.
   (C)   All decisions by the City Council in granting or denying petitions to
vacate shall be final, except that any aggrieved person or persons, or any
department, board or commission of the jurisdiction of the state, shall have
the right to appeal within 30 days after the City Council makes its decision to
the county’s District Court on questions of law and fact.
(Ord. 705, 2nd Series, passed 5-10-2005; Ord., passed - -)
Editor’s note:
   For any fees or costs associated with a petition to vacate, see the
ordinance adopting a schedule of fines and fees on file in the city offices.
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of §
90.01 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as
defined in M.S. § 609.033, as it may be amended from time to time, and laws
amendatory thereto.
   (C)   Any person or party convicted of the violation of any of the
provisions of §
90.02 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to
punishment as defined in M.S. § 609.033, as it may be amended from time to
time, and laws amendatory thereto.
   (D)   Any person convicted of a violation of §
90.03 of this chapter shall be punished as defined in M.S. § 609.033, as it may
be amended from time to time, and laws amendatory thereto.
   (E)   Any person who shall violate any provisions of §§
90.15 through
90.19 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 301, passed - -; Ord. 302, passed - -; Ord. 303, passed - -; Ord. 703,
passed 3-26-2001)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Assessable current services
   
91.02   Tree diseases and shade tree pest control
Nuisances
   
91.15   Public nuisance
   
91.16   Public nuisances affecting health
   
91.17   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
91.18   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
91.19   Nuisance parking and storage
   
91.20   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
91.21   Building maintenance and appearance
   
91.22   Duties of city officers
   
91.23   Abatement
   
91.24   Recovery of cost
Weeds
   
91.35   Short title
   
91.36   Jurisdiction
   
91.37   Definitions; exclusions
   
91.38   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
91.39   Filing complaint
   
91.40   Notice of violations
   
91.41   Appeals
   
91.42   Abatement by city
   
91.43   Liability
Open Burning
   
91.60   Definitions
   
91.61   Rules and laws adopted by reference
   
91.62   External solid fuel-fired heating devices (outdoor wood burning stoves)
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CURRENT SERVICE. Shall mean one or more of the following: snow, ice, or
rubbish removal from sidewalks; weed elimination from street grass plots
adjacent to sidewalks or from private property; removal or elimination of
public health or safety hazards from private property, excluding any hazardous
building included in M.S. §§ 463.15 through 463.26 as they may amended from
time to time; installation or repair of water service lines; street sprinkling,
street flushing, light street oiling, or other dust treatment of streets;
repair of sidewalks and alleys; trimming and care of trees and removal of
unsound and insect-infected trees from the public streets or private property;
and the operation of a street lighting system.
   (B)   Snow, ice, dirt and rubbish.
      (1)   Removal by city. The City Clerk/Treasurer or other person
designated by the City Council may cause removal from all public sidewalks all
snow, ice, dirt and rubbish as soon as possible after any matter has been
deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased to fall. The City Clerk/
Treasurer or other designated person shall keep a record showing the cost of
removal adjacent to each separate lot and parcel.
      (2)   Traffic ways. Property owners are encouraged to maintain traffic
ways adjacent to their property.
   (C)   Public health and safety hazards. When the city removes or eliminates
public health or safety hazards from private property under the following
provisions of this chapter, the administrative officer responsible for doing
the work shall keep a record of the cost of the removal or elimination against
each parcel of property affected and annually deliver that information to the
City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (D)   Repair of sidewalks and alleys. Repair of sidewalks and alleys is the
sole responsibility of the city.
§ 91.02 TREE DISEASES AND SHADE TREE PEST CONTROL.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      (1)   SHADE TREE. A woody perennial grown primarily for aesthetic or
environmental purposes.
      (2)   SHADE TREE PEST. Any vertebrate or invertebrate animal, plant
pathogen, or plant that is determined by the Commissioner to be harmful,
injurious, or destructive to shade trees or community forests.
   (B)   Declaration of policy. The health of the trees in the city is
threatened by shade tree pests, and the loss or ill health of trees growing
upon public and private property substantially depreciates the value of
property within the city and impairs the safety, good order, general welfare
and convenience of the public. In addition to and in accordance with M.S. §§
89.001, 89.01 and 89.51 through 89.64, as those sections may be amended from
time to time, the provisions of this section are adopted to attempt to control
and prevent the spread of these shade tree pests.
   (C)   Jurisdiction. The city shall have control of all street trees, shrubs,
and other plantings now or hereafter in any street, park, public right-of-way
or easement, or other public place within the city limits, and shall have the
power to plant, care for, maintain, remove, and replace such trees, shrubs and
other plantings.
   (D)   Declaration of a shade tree pest. The Council may declare any
vertebrate or invertebrate animal, plant pathogen, or plant threatening to
cause significant damage to a shade tree or community forest as defined by M.S.
§ 89.001, to be a shade tree pest and prescribe control measures to effectively
eradicate, control or manage the shade tree pest including necessary timelines
for action.
   (E)   Public nuisances declared. A shade tree pest declared by Council
occurring within a declared control zone is a public nuisance.
   (F)   Shade tree pest nuisances are unlawful. Shade tree pest nuisances are
unlawful. It is unlawful for any person to permit any public nuisance as
defined in this section to remain on any premises the person owns or controls
within the city. The nuisance may be abated as provided in this section.
   (G)   Definition of control areas. Upon declaring a shade tree pest, the
Council may define one or more locations within the geographic boundaries of
the city to be within a shade tree pest control area provided such locations
are characterized by biologic, composition, environmental and size factors
favorable to successful application of the control measures prescribed by
Council.
   (H)   Tree Inspector. The Council may appoint a Tree Inspector to coordinate
the activities of the city relating to the control and prevention of damage by
shade tree pests. The Tree Inspector will recommend to the Council the details
of any program for the declaration, control and prevention of shade tree pests.
The Tree Inspector is authorized to enforce or cause to be enforced the tasks
incident to such a program adopted by the Council. The term TREE INSPECTOR
includes any person designated by Council or the Tree Inspector to carry out
activities authorized in this section.
   (I)   Abatement of shade tree pest nuisances.
      (1)   In abating a nuisance declared by ordinance under divisions (C) and
(D), the organism, condition or plant and any tree, wood or material identified
as injurious to the health of shade trees shall be removed or effectively
treated so as to destroy and prevent as fully as possible the spread of the
shade tree pest. Such abatement procedures shall be carried out in accordance
with the control measures and areas prescribed by ordinance according to
divisions (D) and (L) and (P).
      (2)   In addition, should the appropriate abatement procedure be removal
and the tree(s) and/or hedge(s) be within the limits of a highway in a rural
area within the city's jurisdiction, M.S. § 160.22, as it may be amended from
time to time, shall be complied with as necessary.
   (J)   Reporting discovery of shade tree pest. Any owner or occupier of land
or any person engaged in tree trimming or removal who becomes aware of the
existence of public nuisance caused by a shade tree pest as defined under
division (D) shall report the same to the city.
   (K)   Registration of tree care firms. Any person, firm or corporation that
provides tree care, tree trimming or removal of trees, limbs, branches, brush,
or shrubs for hire must be registered with the Minnesota Commissioner of
Agriculture under M.S. § 18G.07, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (L)   Inspection and application of control measures.
      (1)   The Tree Inspector is authorized to inspect premises and places
within the city to determine whether shade tree pests exist thereon and to
investigate all reported incidents of shade tree pests. The Tree Inspector is
authorized to take all reasonable measures to prevent the maintenance of public
nuisances and may enforce the provisions relating to abatement in this section.
Diagnosis of shade tree pests may be by the presence of commonly recognized
symptoms or by tests as may be recommended by the Commissioner of the Minnesota
Department of Agriculture or the Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of
Natural Resources or other reliable means.
      (2)   Except in situations of imminent danger to human life and safety,
the Tree Inspector shall not enter private property for the purpose of
inspecting or preventing maintenance of public nuisances without the permission
of the owner, resident or other person in control of the property, unless the
Tree Inspector has obtained a warrant or order from a court of competent
jurisdiction authorizing the entry.
      (3)   No person, firm, or corporation shall interfere with the Tree
Inspector acting under his or her authority while engaged in activities
authorized by this section.
   (M)   Standard abatement procedure. Except as provided in divisions (N) and
(P), whenever a Tree Inspector determines with reasonable certainty that a
public nuisance as described by this section is being maintained or exists on
premises in the city, the Tree Inspector is authorized to abate a public
nuisance according to the following procedure.
      (1)   The Tree Inspector will notify in writing the owner of record or
occupant of the premises of such fact and order that the nuisance be terminated
or abated. The notice may be given in person or by mail. Failure of any party
to receive the mail does not invalidate the service of the notice. A copy of
the notice shall be filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer.
      (2)   The notice of abatement shall state that unless the public nuisance
is abated by the owner or occupant, it will be abated by the city at the
expense of the owner or occupant. The notice shall specify the control measures
to be taken to abate the nuisance, and provide a reasonable amount of time to
abate the nuisance. The notice will also state that the owner or occupant has
the right to appeal the determination that a public nuisance exists by
submitting a request in writing to the City Clerk/Treasurer within seven days
after service of the notice, or before the date by which abatement must be
completed, whichever comes first.
      (3)   If no timely appeal is submitted, and the notice of abatement and
its prescribed control measures are not complied with within the time provided
by the notice or any additional time granted, the Tree Inspector or designated
person shall have the authority to obtain permission or an administrative
search warrant, enter the property and carry out abatement in accordance with
the notice of abatement.
   (N)   High cost abatement. If the Tree Inspector determines that the cost of
abating a nuisance will exceed $5,000 based on a reasonable, good faith
estimate, the written notice referred to in division (M) must provide that if
the nuisance is not abated within the reasonable amount of time provided, the
matter will be referred to the City Council for a hearing. The date, time, and
location of the hearing must be provided in the notice.
   (O)   Appeal procedure. If the City Clerk/Treasurer receives a written
request for a hearing on the question of whether a public nuisance in fact
exists, the City Council shall hold a hearing within seven calendar days
following receipt by the Clerk/Treasurer of the written request. At least
three-days’ notice shall be given to the individual who made the written
request for the hearing. The Council may modify the abatement notice or extend
the time by which abatement must be completed. Each owner, agent of the owner,
occupant and lienholder of the subject property or properties in attendance, if
any, shall be given the opportunity to present evidence at the hearing. After
holding the hearing, the City Council may issue an order requiring abatement of
the nuisance.
   (P)   Abatement procedure in event of imminent danger.
      (1)   Determination. If the Tree Inspector determines that the danger of
infestation to other shade trees is imminent and delay in control measures may
put public health, safety or welfare in immediate danger, the Tree Inspector
may provide for abatement without following (M) or (N). The Tree Inspector must
reasonably attempt to notify the owner or occupant of the affected property of
the intended action and the right to appeal the abatement and any cost recovery
at the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting.
      (2)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the
city, without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition
which poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
   (Q)   Recovery of cost of abatement; liability and assessment.
      (1)   The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been abated by the
city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the abatement,
including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been completed and the
cost determined, the City Clerk/Treasurer or other official shall prepare a
bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon the amount shall be
immediately due and payable at the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
      (2)   After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as it may
be amended from time to time, the City Clerk/Treasurer may list the total
unpaid charges along with all other charges as well as other charges for
current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from
time to time, against each separate lot or parcel to which the charges are
attributable. The City Council may then certify the charges against the
property under that statute and other pertinent statutes to the County Auditor
for collection along with current taxes the following year or in annual
installments as the City Council may determine in each case.
   (R)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
section shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which
may be imposed for any crime which is a misdemeanor under this section,
including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, shall be a
sentence of not more than 90 days or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
      (2)   Upon conviction of a misdemeanor, the costs of prosecution may be
added, A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which
a violation occurs or continues.
      (3)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this section shall not subject the officer or employee
to the penalty imposed tor a violation.
      (4)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section, if any
person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of this section,
the City Council or any official designated by it, may institute appropriate
proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the violation.
   (S)   Declared shade tree pests, control measures and control areas.
Declared tree pests/diseases will include those on the updated state/county
lists as well as any approved by the Council as recommended by the Tree
Inspector.
NUISANCES
§ 91.15 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   A person must not act, or fail to act in a manner that is or causes a public
nuisance. For purpose of this subchapter, a person who does any of the
following is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, which is a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage any public
highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Does any other act or omission declared by law or §§
91.16,
91.17 or
91.18, or any other part of this code to be a public nuisance and for which no
sentence is specifically provided.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license.
   (L)   All unnecessary and annoying vibrations.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized and permitted by federal, state or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses; (See §
152.102, Adult Use.)
   (D)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining that place. For the purposes of this
section INTOXICATING LIQUOR shall mean any ethyl alcohol, distilled, fermented,
spirituous, vinous or malt beverage containing more than 1/2% alcohol by
volume; (See
Chapter 111, Liquor Regulations.)
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating
liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or illegal
purpose.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (B)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (C)   All obnoxious noises in violation of Minn. Rules Ch. 7030, as they may
be amended from time to time which are hereby incorporated by reference into
this code;
   (D)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharging of the
exhaust of any stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all terrain vehicle, snowmobile or any recreational device
except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud or
explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
   (E)   The using or operation or permitting the using or operation of any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine or
other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a distinctly and loudly
audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of any person
nearby, Operation of any device referred to above between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at the property line
of the structure or building in which it is located, or at a distance of 50
feet if the source is located outside a structure or building shall be prima
facie evidence of violation of this section;
   (F)   No person shall participate in any party or other gathering of people
giving rise to noise, unreasonably disturbing the peace, quiet, or repose of
another person. When a police officer determines that a gathering is creating
such a noise disturbance, the officer may order all persons present, other than
the owner or tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to
disperse immediately. No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered by a
police officer to do so. Every owner or tenant of such premises who has
knowledge of the disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the
disturbance is stopped;
   (G)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds except under conditions as are
permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (H)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (I)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (J)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not constructed
and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (K)   The allowing of rain water, ice or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (L)   Any barbed wire fence less than six feet above the ground and within
three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (M)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (N)   Waste water cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other
public properties;
   (O)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies or other material in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health or safety
hazards from accumulation;
   (P)   Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
another condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (Q)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter or ditch with trash of other materials;
   (R)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
   (S)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
   (T)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone.
   (U)   (1)   Noises prohibited.
         (a)   General prohibition. No person shall make or cause to be made
any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys, disturbs,
injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety, or welfare of
any person or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property's
value. This general prohibition is not limited by the specific restrictions of
this section.
         (b)   Defective vehicles or loads. No person shall use any vehicle so
out of repair or so loaded as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling, or other noise.
         (c)   Loading, unloading, unpacking. No person shall create loud or
excessive noise in loading, unloading, or unpacking any vehicle.
         (d)   Radios, phonographs, paging systems, and the like. No person
shall use or operate or permit the use or operation of any radio receiving set,
musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine or other device for the
production or reproduction of sound in a distinct and loudly audible manner as
to unreasonably disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of any person nearby.
Operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine or other device
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly
audible at the property line of the structure or building in which it is
located, in the hallway or apartment adjacent, or at a distance of 50 feet if
the source is located outside a structure or building, shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section.
         (e)   Schools, churches, hospitals, and the like. No person shall
create any excessive noise on a street, alley or public grounds adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, church or hospital when the noise unreasonably
interferes with the working of the institution or disturbs or unduly annoys its
occupants or residents and when conspicuous signs indicate the presence of such
institution.
      (2)   Hourly restriction of certain operations.
         (a)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill or
other similar domestic power maintenance equipment except between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m. on any weekend or holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this
provision.
         (b)   Refuse hauling. No person shall collect or remove garbage or
refuse in any residential district except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on
any weekend or holiday.
         (c)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel, or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. on any weekend or holiday.
      (3)   Noise impact statements. The Council may require any person
applying for a change in zoning classification or a permit or license for any
structure, operation, process, installation or alteration or project that may
be considered a potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a
form prescribed by the Council. It shall evaluate each such statement and take
its evaluation into account in approving or disapproving the license or permit
applied for or the zoning change requested.
   (V)   Reflected glare or light. Reflected glare or light from private
exterior lighting exceeding 0.5 footcandles as measured on the property line of
the property where the lighting is located when abutting any residential
parcel, and one footcandle when abutting any commercial or industrial parcel.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 NUISANCE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking and storage on
residentially-zoned property of large numbers of vehicles and vehicles,
materials, supplies or equipment not customarily used for residential purposes
in violation of the requirements set forth below is declared to be a public
nuisance because it (a) obstructs views on streets and private property, (b)
creates cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas, (c) prevents the full use of
residential streets for residential parking, (d) introduces commercial
advertising signs into areas where commercial advertising signs are otherwise
prohibited, (e) decreases adjoining landowners' and occupants' enjoyment of
their property and neighborhood, and (f) otherwise adversely affects property
values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Unlawful parking and storage.
      (1)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of ice fish houses, skateboard ramps, playhouses or other similar non-permanent
structures outside continuously for longer than 24 hours in the front-yard area
of residential property unless more than 100 feet back from the front property
line.
      (2)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery, or similar materials, including all
materials used in connection with a business, outside on residential property,
unless shielded from public view by an opaque cover or fence.
      (3)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles on residential property unless it complies with
the following requirements:
         (a)   No more than four vehicles per lawful dwelling unit may be
parked or stored anywhere outside on residential property, except as otherwise
permitted or required by the city because of nonresidential characteristics of
the property. This maximum number does not include vehicles of occasional
guests who do not reside on the property.
         (b)   Vehicles that are parked or stored outside in the front-yard
area must be on a paved or graveled parking surface or driveway area.
         (c)   Vehicles, watercraft and other articles stored outside on
residential property must be owned by a person who resides on that property.
Students who are away at school for periods of time but still claim the
property as their legal residence will be considered residents on the property.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.20 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES,
   (A)   Declaration of a nuisance. Any motor vehicles described in this
section constitute a hazard to the health and welfare of the residents of the
community in that such vehicles can harbor noxious diseases, furnish a shelter
and breeding place for vermin and present physical danger to the safety and
well-being of children and citizens; and vehicles containing fluids which, if
released into the environment, can and do cause significant health risks to the
community.
   (B)   Unlawful. It shall be unlawful to keep, park, store or abandon any
motor vehicle which is not in operating condition, partially dismantled, used
for repair of parts or as a source of repair or replacement parts for other
vehicles, kept for scrapping, dismantling or salvage of any kind, or which is
not properly licensed for operation with the state, pursuant to M.S. § 168.13,
as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Motor vehicle kept enclosed or out of view. This section does not
apply to a motor vehicle enclosed in a building and/or kept out of view from
any street, road or alley, and which does not foster complaint from a resident
of the city. A privacy fence is permissible.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Buildings, fences and other structures that
have been so poorly maintained that their physical condition and appearance
detract from the surrounding neighborhood are declared to be public nuisances
because they (a) are unsightly, (b) decrease adjoining landowners and
occupants' enjoyment of their property and neighborhood, and (c) adversely
affect property values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Standards. A building, fence or other structure is a public nuisance
if it does not comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   No part of any exterior surface may have deterioration, holes,
breaks, gaps, loose or rotting boards or timbers.
      (2)   Every exterior surface that has had a surface finish such as paint
applied must be maintained to avoid noticeable deterioration of the finish. No
wall or other exterior surface may have peeling, cracked, chipped or otherwise
deteriorated surface finish on more than 20% of:
         (a)   Any one wall or other flat surface; or
         (b)   All door and window moldings, eaves, gutters, and similar
projections on any one side or surface.
         (3)   No glass, including windows and exterior light fixtures, may be
broken or cracked, and no screens may be torn or separated from moldings.
         (4)   Exterior doors and shutters must be hung properly and have an
operable mechanism to keep them securely shut or in place.
         (5)   Cornices, moldings, lintels, sills, bay or dormer windows and
similar projections must be kept in good repair and free from cracks and
defects that make them hazardous or unsightly.
         (6)   Roof surfaces must be tight and have no defects that admit
water. All roof drainage systems must be secured and hung properly.
         (7)   Chimneys, antennae, air vents, and other similar projections
must be structurally sound and in good repair. These projections must be
secured properly, where applicable, to an exterior wall or exterior roof.
         (8)   Foundations must be structurally sound and in good repair.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   For purposes of §§
91.22 and
91.23, the Police Department, or Sheriff or person designated by the City
Council under §
10.20, if the city has at the time no Police Department, may enforce the
provisions relating to nuisances. Any peace officer or designated person shall
have the power to inspect private premises and take all reasonable precautions
to prevent the commission and maintenance of public nuisances. Except in
emergency situations of imminent danger to human life and safety, no police
officer or designated person shall enter private property for the purpose of
inspecting or preventing public nuisances without the permission of the owner,
resident or other person in control of the property, unless the officer or
person designated has obtained a warrant or order from a court of competent
jurisdiction authorizing the entry, as provided in §
10.20.
§ 91.23 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice. Written notice of violation; notice of the time, date, place
and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of City Council
order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be given as
set forth in this section.
      (1)   Notice of violation. Written notice of violation shall be served by
a peace officer or designated person on the owner of record or occupant of the
premises either in person or by certified or registered mail. If the premises
is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the owner of record or
occupant refuses to accept notice of violation, notice of violation shall be
served by posting it on the premises.
      (2)   Notice of City Council hearing. Written notice of any City Council
hearing to determine or abate a nuisance shall be served on the owner of record
and occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or registered
mail. If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the
owner of record or occupant refuses to accept notice of the City Council
hearing, notice of City Council hearing shall be served by posting it on the
premises.
      (3)   Notice of City Council order. Except for those cases determined by
the city to require summary enforcement, written notice of any City Council
order shall be made as provided in M.S. § 463.17 (Hazardous and Substandard
Building Act), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Notice of motion for summary enforcement. Written notice of any
motion for summary enforcement shall be made as provided for in M.S. § 463.17
(Hazardous and Substandard Building Act), as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (B)   Procedure. Whenever a peace officer or designated person determines
that a public nuisance is being maintained or exists on the premises in the
city, the officer or person designated may notify in writing the owner of
record or occupant of the premises of such fact and order that the nuisance be
terminated or abated. The notice of violation shall specify the steps to be
taken to abate the nuisance and the time within which the nuisance is to be
abated. If the notice of violation is not complied with within the time
specified, the officer or designated person shall report that fact forthwith to
the City Council. Thereafter, the City Council may, after notice to the owner
or occupant and an opportunity to be heard, determine that the condition
identified in the notice of violation is a nuisance and further order that if
the nuisance is not abated within the time prescribed by the City Council, the
city may seek injunctive relief by serving a copy of the City Council order and
notice of motion for summary enforcement or obtain an administrative search and
seizure warrant and abate the nuisance.
   (C)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement. In cases of emergency, where
delay in abatement required to complete the notice and procedure requirements
set forth in divisions (A) and (B) of this section will permit a continuing
nuisance to unreasonably endanger public health safety or welfare, the City
Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance. To proceed with
summary enforcement, the officer or designated person shall determine that a
public nuisance exists or is being maintained on premises in the city and that
delay in abatement of the nuisance will unreasonably endanger public health,
safety or welfare. The officer or designated person shall notify in writing the
occupant or owner of the premises of the nature of the nuisance and of the
city's intention to seek summary enforcement and the time and place of the City
Council meeting to consider the question of summary enforcement. The City
Council shall determine whether or not the condition identified in the notice
to the owner or occupant is a nuisance, whether public health, safety or
welfare will be unreasonably endangered by delay in abatement required to
complete the procedure set forth in division (A) of this section, and may order
that the nuisance be immediately terminated or abated. If the nuisance is not
immediately terminated or abated, the City Council may order summary
enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition which
poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city or a person who has caused a public nuisance on a property
not owned by that person shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of
the abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Clerk/Treasurer or other official
shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon the
amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
   (B)   Assessment. After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as
it may be amended from time to time, if the nuisance is a public health or
safety hazard on private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public
sidewalks, the growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled
portion of streets, or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City Clerk/
Treasurer shall, on or before September 1 next following abatement of the
nuisance, list the total unpaid charges along with all other charges as well as
other charges for current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101, as it
may be amended from time to time, against each separate lot or parcel to which
the charges are attributable. The City Council may then spread the charges
against the property under that statute and other pertinent statutes for
certification to the County Auditor and collection along with current taxes the
following year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten, as the City
Council may determine in each case.
Penalty, see §
91.99
WEEDS
§ 91.35 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be cited as the “Weed Ordinance.”
§ 91.36 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter shall be in addition to any state statute or regulation or
county ordinance presently in effect, subsequently added, amended or repealed.
§ 91.37 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A) For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the City Council or designated
city official, in cases of appeal, on the property owner of the ordinance
violation that shall conform to M.S. § 18.83, Subd. 2, as it may be amended
from time to time.
      MEADOW VEGETATION. Grasses and flowering broad-leaf plants that are
native to, or adapted to, the state of Minnesota, and that are commonly found
in meadow and prairie plant communities, except weeds as defined herein.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-
of-way, easement, license or lease.
      WEEDS, GRASSES and RANK VEGETATION. Includes but is not limited to the
following:
         (a)   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation shall include but not be
limited to: alum (allium), Buckthorn, Bur Cucumber, Canada Thistle, Corncockle,
Cressleaf Groundsel, Curly Dock, Dodder, Field Bindweed, French Weed, Hairy
Whitetop, Hedge Bindweed, Hoary Cress, Horsenettle, Johnsongrass, Leafy Spurge,
Mile-A-Minute Weed, Musk Thistle, Oxeye Daisy, Perennial Sowthistle, Poison
Hemlock, Purple Loosestrife, Quaekgrass, Russian Knapweed, Russian Thistle,
Serrated Tussock, Shatter Cane, Sorghum, Wild Carrot, Wild Garlic, Wild
Mustard, Wild Onion, Wild Parsnip;
         (b)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not pruned,
sprayed, cultivated, or otherwise maintained for two consecutive years;
         (c)   Bushes of the species of tall, common, or European barberry,
further known as berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties;
         (d)   Any weeds, grass, or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers,
or other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding 12 inches;
         (e)   Rank vegetation includes the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth
of annuals and perennial plants;
         (f)   The term WEEDS does not include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants
or crops.
         (g)   Any other weed designated by M.S. § 18.77, Subd. 8, as it may be
amended from time to time, as noxious.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
§ 91.38 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   All property owners shall be responsible for the removal, cutting, or
disposal and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other
uncontrolled plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice, is in
excess of 12 inches in height.
   (B)   These provisions shall not apply to an area established with meadow
vegetation if:
      (1)   The prior vegetation is eliminated and the meadow vegetation is
planted through transplanting or seed by human or mechanical means; and
      (2)   A sign is posted on the property in a location likely to be seen by
the public, advising that a meadow or prairie is being established. This sign
must be no smaller than ten inches square, no larger than one square foot, and
no higher than three feet tall.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.39 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the city, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the city which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter shall make a written complaint signed, dated and
filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer. If the city makes the complaint, an
employee, officer or Council Member of the city shall file the complaint in all
respects as set out above.
§ 91.40 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in violation
of this subchapter, a person designated by the City Council shall make an
inspection and prepare a written report to the City Council regarding the
condition. The City Council, upon concluding that there is a probable belief
that this subchapter has been violated, shall forward written notification in
the form of a “Destruction Order” to the property owner or the person occupying
the property as that information is contained within the records of the City
Clerk/Treasurer or any other city agency. The notice shall be served in writing
by certified mail. The notice shall provide that within seven regular business
days after the receipt of the notice that the designated violation shall be
removed by the property owner or person occupying the property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing and all filings are to be with
the City Clerk/Treasurer.
      (2)   Certified mailing to the City Clerk/Treasurer or others is deemed
filed on the date of posting to the United States Postal Service.
§ 91.41 APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the City Council within 48 hours of the notice, excluding weekends and
holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the City Council. It is
the property owner's responsibility to demonstrate that the matter in question
is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops or is not otherwise in violation
of this subchapter, and should not be subject to destruction under the
subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the City
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council Members in
attendance and being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the City
Council.
§ 91.42 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
“Destruction Order” within seven regular business days and has not filed a
notice within 48 hours to the City Clerk/Treasurer of an intent to appeal, the
City Council may employ the services of city employees or outside contractors
and remove the weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful means. No
person shall enter the property to abate the nuisance, except with the
permission of the owner, resident or other person in control of the property.
§ 91.43 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting or
destruction of weeds as defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including but not limited to court costs, attorney's
fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the city. If the city uses
municipal employees, it shall set and assign an appropriate per hour rate for
employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals which may be used as set forth in
the Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in the city offices.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the City
Clerk/Treasurer and to be deposited in a general fund as compensation for
expenses and costs incurred by the city.
   (D)   All sums payable by the property owner may be collected as a special
assessment as provided by M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time.
OPEN BURNING
§ 91.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WOOD. Dry, clean fuel only such as twigs, branches, limbs, manufactured
fireplace logs, charcoal, cord wood or untreated dimensional lumber. WOOD does
not include wood that is oil soaked, or treated with paint, glue or
preservatives. Clean pallets may be used for recreational fires when cut into
three-foot lengths.
§ 91.61 RULES AND LAWS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. §§ 88.16 to 88.22, as these statutes may be amended
from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
subchapter as if fully set forth at this point.
§ 91.62 EXTERNAL SOLID FUEL-FIRED HEATING DEVICES (OUTDOOR WOOD BURNING
STOVES).
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   EXTERNAL SOLID FUEL-FIRED HEATING DEVICE. A device designed for
external solid fuel combustion so that usable heat is derived for the interior
of a building, and includes solid fuel-fired stoves, solid fuel-fired cooking
stoves, and combination fuel furnaces or boiler which burn solid fuel. Solid
fuel-fired heating devices do not include natural gas-fired fireplace logs or
wood-burning fireplaces or wood stoves in the interior of a dwelling.
      (2)   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, company or other
association.
      (3)   STACKS or CHIMNEYS. Any vertical structure incorporated into a
building and enclosing a flue or flues that carry off smoke or exhaust from a
solid fuel-fired heating device, especially, the part of such a structure
extending above a roof.
   (B)   Requirements for operation.
      (1)   Any dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in
unreasonable quantities, or any use of an external solid fuel-fired heating
device to burn solid fuels other than those solid fuels for which the external
solid fuel-fired heating device was designed, is declared a public nuisance.
      (2)   All external solid fuel-fired heating devices must be setback a
minimum of ten feet from any principal or accessory structure.
   (C)   Fuels.
      (1)   Only fuels designed for burning in an external solid fuel-fired
heating device may be burned. No garbage may be burned in an external solid
fuel-fired heating device.
      (2)   The only fuel permitted to be burned is untreated fuel. Wood may
not be treated, processed, stained, finished or painted - specifically
prohibited woods include plywood, particle board and similar products. Other
fuels, such as corn, shall not contain any additives, treatments or chemicals.
No petroleum products or processed materials of any kind may be burned.
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter, including maintaining a nuisance
after being notified in writing by first class mail of a violation of any
provision of this chapter, shall be a misdemeanor and punished as provided in §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Dogs and cats
   
92.03   Wild or exotic non-domesticated animals
   
92.04   Farm animals
   
92.05   Abandonment
   
92.06   Impounding
   
92.07   Commercial kennels, hobby kennels, and/or boarding facilities
   
92.08   Notices
   
92.09   Nuisances
   
92.10   Trespasses
   
92.11   Seizure of animals
   
92.12   Animals presenting a danger to health and safety of city
   
92.13   Diseased animals
   
92.14   Regulation of dangerous dogs
   
92.15   Dangerous animal requirements
   
92.16   Basic care
   
92.17   Interference with officers
   
92.18   Unlawful acts
 
   
92.99   Penalties
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl and
poultry) or other member commonly accepted as part of the animal kingdom.
Animals shall be classified as follows:
      (1)   CAT. Shall be intended to mean both the male and female of the
Felidae species commonly accepted as domesticated household pets.
      (2)   DOG. Shall be intended to mean both the male and female of the
canine species, commonly accepted as domesticated household pets, and other
domesticated animals of a dog kind. Any non-domestic animal must meet state
guidelines and the owner must receive approval from the City.
      (3)   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated
household pets. Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall include dogs,
cats, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, ferrets (if vaccinated
against rabies), domesticated rabbits, domesticated rats, fish and non-venomous
reptiles or amphibians and other similar animals.
      (4)   WILD or EXOTIC NON-DOMESTICATED ANIMALS. Those animals commonly
considered to be naturally wild and not naturally trained or domesticated, or
which are commonly considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety,
and welfare of people. Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall include:
         (a)   Any member of the large cat family (family Felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats.
         (b)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family Canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs.
         (c)   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog,
unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet.
         (d)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not de-scented), raccoon, squirrel, or ferret (unless vaccinated
against rabies), but excluding those members otherwise defined as domesticated
pets.
         (e)   Any venomous, or inherently dangerous member of the reptile or
amphibian families as well as crocodiles and alligators.
         (f)   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but which
can be reasonably defined by the terms of this section, including but not
limited to bears, deer, monkeys and game fish.
      (3)   FARM ANIMALS. Those animals commonly associated with a farm or
performing work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, such
animals shall include members of the equestrian family (horses, mules), bovine
family (cows, bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, roosters, turkeys), fowl
(ducks, geese), swine (including Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees, and
other animals associated with a farm, ranch, or stable.
   AT LARGE. Shall be intended to mean off the premises of the owner and not
under the custody and control of the owner or other person, either by
restraint, cord, or chain.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER or OFFICER. The Animal Control Officer, members of the
Emily Police Department, and/or the city appointed authority for the city who
shall enforce the provisions of this section. The duties of the Enforcement
Officer are as follows:
      (1)   Capture, seize and deliver to any designated pound any animal
running at large within the city.
      (2)   Investigate all reported incidents wherein a dog has bitten a
person and confirm that said animal is quarantined as required herein.
      (3)   Such other matters as may be prescribed by the City Council, Police
Chief or designee.
   OWNER. Shall be intended to mean any person or persons, firm, association or
corporation owning, keeping, or harboring an animal.
   RESTRAINT.
      (1)   Physical confinement such as; by leash, chain, cable, fence,
electronic control, or building;
      (2)   Under competent voice control of a person who is physically present
with an animal when that animal is on the property of the owner; or
      (3)   Under competent voice control when an animal is engaged in a
recognized animal activity or form of training requiring that it not be
physically confined.
§ 92.02 DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Running at large prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person, or
the parents or the guardians of any such person under 18 years of age, who
owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat, to allow the dog or cat to run at large.
Dogs or cats must be restrained by a responsible person and shall be permitted
on streets, sidewalks, trails or on other public land unless the city has
posted an area with signs reading “Dogs or Cats Prohibited.”
   (B)   Animals per residence. It shall be unlawful for any owner residing on
less than two acres to possess or maintain more than three animals, dogs/cats
or any combination thereof, over the age of 90 days at his, her or their
residence or any single unit of occupancy within city limits.
   (C)   License required.
      (1)   All dogs/cats over the age of four months kept, harbored, or
maintained by their owners in the city, shall be licensed and registered with
the city. Animal licenses shall be issued by the city upon payment of the
annual license fee. The annual license fee shall be set in the Fee Schedule
Ordinance on file in the city offices. The owner shall state, at the time
application is made for the license and upon forms provided for such purpose,
his or her name and address and the name, breed, color, and sex of each dog/cat
owned or kept by him or her. No license shall be granted for a dog/cat which
has not been vaccinated against rabies, as provided in this section.
Vaccination shall be performed only by a doctor qualified to practice
veterinary medicine in the state in which the dog/cat is vaccinated. A
veterinarian who vaccinates a dog/cat to be licensed in the city shall complete
a certificate of vaccination. One copy shall be issued to the dog/cat owner for
affixing to the license application. An applicant for a license for a neutered
dog/cat shall sign an affidavit indicating that the dog/cat has been neutered
and shall give the date of the operation.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of each owner of a dog/cat subject to this
section to pay to the city the license fee as set forth in the Fee Schedule
Ordinance on file in the city offices.
      (3)   Upon payment of the license fee, the city shall issue to the owner
a license certificate and metallic tag for each dog/cat licensed. The tag shall
have stamped the number corresponding with the number on the certificate. Every
owner shall be required to provide each dog/cat with a collar to which the
license tag must be affixed, and shall see that the collar and tag are
constantly worn. In case an animal tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate shall
be issued by the city upon the presentation of a receipt showing the payment of
the license fee, as set forth in the Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in the city
offices, for the then current license year and after payment by the applicant
of the fee as set forth in the Fee Schedule Ordinance for issuance of the
duplicate license. Animal tags shall not be transferable from one dog/cat to
another and no refunds shall be made on any animal license fee or tag because
of death of a dog/cat or the owner's leaving the city before the expiration of
the license period. It is unlawful to counterfeit or attempt to counterfeit
tags provided for herein, or to take from any dog/cat a tag legally placed upon
it by its owner with the intention of placing it upon another dog/cat.
      (4)   The licensing provisions of this division shall not apply to dogs/
cats whose owners are non-residents temporarily within the city (not more than
30 days), nor to dogs/cats brought into the city for the purpose of
participating in any dog/cat show. Further, this provision shall not apply to
“seeing eye” dogs properly trained for the purpose of providing service to
persons with disabilities to aid them in going from place to place provided
that a certification of assistance training from a recognized school or program
is submitted with the license application.
      (5)   The funds received by the city from all animal licenses and
metallic tags shall first be used to defray any costs incidental to the
enforcement of this section; including, but not restricted to, the costs of
licenses, metallic tags, and impounding and maintenance of the dogs/cats.
      (6)   Any dogs/cats brought into the city must be properly licensed
within 30 days of having been moved into the city.
   (D)   Cats. Cats shall be included as controlled by this section insofar as
licensing, running-at-large, pickup, impounding, boarding and proof of vaccine
is concerned. All other provisions of this section, shall also apply to cats
unless otherwise provided.
   (E)   Vaccination.
      (1)   All dogs and cats kept harbored, maintained, or transported within
the city shall be properly immunized by a licensed veterinarian for:
 
Rabies A properly administered vaccine by a licensed veterinarian with a
       documented expiration date
 
      (2)   A certificate of vaccination must be kept, on which is stated the
date of vaccination, owner's name and address, the animal's name (if
applicable), sex, description and weight, the type of vaccine, and the
veterinarian's signature. Upon demand made by the Enforcement Officer, the
owner shall present for examination the required certificate(s) of vaccination
for the animal(s). In cases where certificates are not presented, the owner or
keeper of the animal(s) shall have seven days in which to present the
certificate(s) to the city. Failure to do so shall be deemed a violation of
this section.
      (3)   Any animal covered by this subdivision found off the owner's
premises and not wearing a valid rabies vaccination tag shall be impounded. Any
unvaccinated animal that is so impounded may be reclaimed by its owner by
payment of the prescribed pound fees and compliance with the rabies vaccination
requirement of this section, proof of which shall be furnished to the city
within 72 hours of its release from the pound.
Penalty, see §
92.99
Editor’s note:
   For any fees or costs associated with a licenses, see the ordinance adopting
a schedule of fines and fees on file in the city offices.
§ 92.03 WILD OR EXOTIC NON-DOMESTICATED ANIMALS.
   It shall be legal for any person to own, possess, or harbor any wild or
exotic non-domesticated animal with proper permits within the city limits, but
illegal to offer for sale. Any owner of such an animal at the time of adoption
of this section shall have 30 days in which to remove the animal from the city
after which time the city may impound the animal as provided for in this
section. An exception shall be made to this prohibition for animals
specifically trained for and actually providing assistance to the handicapped
or disabled, and for those animals brought into the city as part of an
operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research laboratory, education
or training event, or a licensed show or exhibition, and meet state guidelines,
including the owner must receive approval from the city.
§ 92.04 FARM ANIMALS.
   Farm animals shall only be kept in zoning districts if permitted under the
city zoning ordinance. An exception shall be made to this Section for those
animals brought into the city as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic,
scientific research laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 ABANDONMENT.
   No person shall abandon any dog/cat or other animal within the boundaries of
the city.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Running at large. Any animal running at large is hereby declared a
public nuisance. The Enforcement Officer may impound any dog or other animal
found running at large and shall give notice of the impounding within 24 hours
to the owner of such dog or other animal, if known. Except as otherwise
provided in this section, it shall be unlawful to kill, destroy, or otherwise
cause injury to any animal, including dogs and cats running at large, with the
exception of animals being hunted during a lawful hunting season.
   (B)   Biting animals.
      (1)   Person bitten by animal. Any animal that has not been inoculated by
a current rabies vaccine administered by a licensed veterinarian and which has
bitten any person, wherein the skin has been punctured or the services of a
doctor are required, may be confined in an appropriate location for a period of
not less than ten days, at the expense of the owner. The animal may be released
at the end of such time if healthy and free from symptoms of rabies, and by the
payment of all costs by the owner. However, if the owner of the animal shall
elect immediately upon receipt of notice of need for such confinement by the
Officer to voluntarily and immediately confine the animal for the required
period of time in a veterinary hospital of the owner's choosing, not outside of
the county in which this city is located, and provide immediate proof of such
confinement in such manner as may be required, the owner may do so. If,
however, the owner has proof of the vaccination by a certificate from a
licensed veterinarian, the owner may confine the dog or other animal to the
owner's property.
      (2)   Animal bitten by rabid animal.
         (a)   Unvaccinated animals. In the case of animals which have not been
vaccinated in accordance with this section which have been bitten by a known
rabid animal, said animal shall be euthanized upon the written consent of the
owner. If the owner is unwilling to have the bitten animal euthanized, strict
isolation of the animal in a kennel under veterinarian supervision shall be
required. The owner of the animal shall bear the expense of same.
         (b)   Vaccinated animals. If the bitten animal is vaccinated in
accordance with the provisions of this section, the animal shall be held as
follows:
            1.   The animal shall immediately be revaccinated and confined at
the owner's home for a period of 30 days following revaccination; or
            2.   If the animal is not immediately revaccinated, the animal
shall be confined in strict isolation in a kennel for six months under the
supervision of a veterinarian.
            3.   Euthanasia. In either situation noted in this subdivision, if
the veterinarian determines that the bitten animal is rabid, said animal shall
be euthanized.
   (C)   Reclaiming. All animals conveyed to the impoundment location shall be
kept, with humane treatment and sufficient food and water for their comfort, at
least seven days after the animal is taken into custody, unless reclaimed
sooner by their owners or keepers as provided by this section. In case the
owner or keeper shall desire to reclaim the animal from the pound, the
following shall be required:
      (1)   If a dog is unlicensed, payment of a regular license fee and valid
certificate of vaccination for rabies is required.
      (2)   Payment of all fees accumulated including, but not limited to,
expenses incurred by the animal shelter, including impound fees, boarding of
dog/cat, any necessary veterinary treatment, and rabies vaccination if said
dog/cat is not current.
   (D)   Unclaimed animals. At the expiration of the times established in
division (C), if the animal has not been reclaimed in accordance with the
provisions of this section, the Officer appointed to enforce this section may
let any person claim the animal by complying with all provisions in this
section, or cause the animal to be destroyed in accordance with the provisions
of this section.
§ 92.07 COMMERCIAL KENNELS, HOBBY KENNELS, AND/OR BOARDING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Compliance with Minnesota Statutes. All commercial kennels, hobby
kennels, and/or boarding facilities shall be operated in accordance with
Minnesota Statutes.
   (B)   Animal boarding facility. An establishment that houses animals, other
than those belonging to the occupant, overnight or over an extended period of
time.
   (C)   Definition of KENNEL. The keeping of three or more dogs on the same
premises, whether owned by the same person or not and for whatever purpose
kept, shall constitute a KENNEL; except that a fresh litter of pups may be kept
for a period of three months before that keeping shall be deemed to be a
KENNEL.
   (D)   Kennel as a nuisance. Because the keeping of three or more dogs on the
same premises is subject to great abuse, causing discomfort to persons in the
area by way of smell, noise, hazard, and general aesthetic depreciation, the
keeping of three or more dogs on the premises is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and no person shall keep or maintain a kennel within the city.
§ 92.08 NOTICES.
   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall cause a notice to be published in the
official newspaper of the city one time prior to June 1 each year.
§ 92.09 NUISANCES.
   (A)   Habitual barking/noise. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
harbor a dog that habitually barks, yelps, howls, cries or whimpers so as to
unreasonably disturb the peace and quiet of any person in the vicinity. The
phrase “unreasonably disturb the peace and quiet” shall include but is not
limited to the creation of any noise by a dog that can be heard by any person,
including the Enforcement Officer for repeated intervals of at least three
minutes with less than one minute of interruption. Such noise must also be
audible off of the owner's or caretaker's premises.
   (B)   Damage to property. It shall be unlawful for any person's dog or other
animal to damage any lawn, garden, or other property, whether or not the owner
has knowledge of the damage. Any animal covered by this division may be
impounded as provided in this section or a complaint may be issued by anyone
aggrieved by an animal under this subdivision, against the owner of the animal
for prosecution under this section.
   (C)   Cleaning up litter/feces. The owner of any animal or person having the
custody or control of any animal shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces
of the animal and disposing of such feces in a sanitary manner whether on their
own property, on the property of others or on public property. The clean-up of
feces on the animal owner's property shall not exceed 72 hours from May 1
through October 31 and once per week from November 1 through April 30. The
clean-up of feces on the property of others or public property shall be
immediate. Any person violating this section shall be punished with a fine as
set forth in the Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in the city offices.
   (D)   Other. Any animals kept contrary to this section are subject to
impoundment as provided in this section.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.10 TRESPASSES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to herd, drive, or ride any farm animal
or domesticated animal over and upon any grass, turf, boulevard, city park,
cemetery, garden, or lot without specific permission from the owner of the
property.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to permit any farm animal or
domesticated animal to go upon any grass, turf, boulevard, cemetery, garden, or
lot without the specific permission to do so from the owner of the property.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.11 SEIZURE OF ANIMALS.
   Any Enforcement Officer may enter upon private property and seize any animal
provided that the following exists:
   (A)   There is an identified complainant other than the Enforcement Officer
making a contemporaneous complaint about the animal;
   (B)   The Officer reasonably believes that the animal meets the criteria for
cruelty set out in §
92.16; or the criteria for an at large animal set out in §
92.02(A);
   (C)   The Officer can demonstrate that there has been inhumane treatment of
the animal; or that the animal was at large at this address on a prior date;
   (D)   The Officer has made a reasonable attempt to contact the owner of the
property and those attempts have either failed or have been ignored;
   (E)   The seizure will not involve the forced entry into a private
residence. Use of a pass key obtained from a property manager, landlord,
innkeeper, or other authorized person to have such key shall not be considered
unauthorized entry; and
   (F)   Written notice of the seizure is left in a conspicuous place if
personal contact with the owner of the dog is not possible.
§ 92.12 ANIMALS PRESENTING A DANGER TO HEALTH AND SAFETY OF CITY.
   If, in the reasonable belief of any person or Enforcement Officer, an animal
presents an immediate danger to the health and safety of any person, or the
animal is threatening imminent harm to any person, or the animal is in the
process of attacking any person, the Officer may destroy the animal in a proper
and humane manner. Otherwise the person or Officer may apprehend the animal and
deliver it to the pound for confinement under §
92.06. If the animal is destroyed, a charge as set forth in the Fee Schedule
Ordinance on file in the city offices, to dispose of the animal is payable by
the owner of the animal. If the animal is found not to be a danger to the
health and safety of the city, it may be released to the owner or keeper in
accordance with §
92.06(C).
§ 92.13 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Running at large. No person shall keep or allow to be kept on his or
her premises, or on premises occupied by them, nor permit to run at large in
the city, any animal which is diseased so as to be a danger to the health and
safety of the city, even though the animal be properly licensed under this
section.
   (B)   Confinement. Any animal reasonably suspected of being diseased and
presenting a threat to the health and safety of the public, may be apprehended
and confined in the pound by the owner or Enforcement Officer. The Officer
shall have a qualified veterinarian examine the animal. If the animal is found
to be diseased in such a manner so as to be a danger to the health and safety
of the city, the Officer shall cause such animal to be painlessly killed and
shall properly dispose of the remains. The owner or keeper of the animal killed
under this section shall be liable for all costs of maintaining and disposing
of the animal, plus the costs of any veterinarian examinations.
   (C)   Release. If the animal, upon examination, is not found to be diseased
within the meaning of this section, the animal shall be released to the owner
or keeper free of charge.
§ 92.14 REGULATION OF DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Definition of DANGEROUS DOG. The definition of a DANGEROUS DOG shall
be taken from M.S. §§ 347.50 to 347.56, as those statutes may be amended from
time to time, which are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference into the
City Code. The Enforcement Officer, or designee, shall have the authority to
order the euthanasia of a dangerous dog meeting the criteria established in
state statute, subject to the procedure set forth herein.
   (B)   Proper enclosure. Proper enclosure means securely confined indoors or
in a securely locked outdoor pen or structure suitable to prevent the dog from
escaping and to provide protection for the animal from the elements. A proper
enclosure does not include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or
other structure that would allow the animal to exit of its own volition, or any
house or structure in which windows are open or in which door or window screens
are the only barriers which prevent the animal from exiting.
   (C)   Unprovoked. Unprovoked shall mean the condition in which the animal is
not purposely excited, stimulated, agitated, or disturbed.
   (D)   Procedure/hearing. The procedure to seize an animal that appears to be
dangerous shall be as follows:
      (1)   Notify the owner, by registered mail that the animal appears to be
dangerous. The notice shall specify the dates, times, places and parties or
animals bitten. Said notice shall also apprise the owner of the animal that he
or she may request a hearing before the City Council by notifying the City
Clerk/Treasurer within ten days after the receipt of the notice.
      (2)   If the owner does not request a hearing within 14 days of said
notice, the Enforcement Officer shall immediately take possession of the animal
and euthanize the same.
      (3)   If the owner of the animal requests a hearing as to the dangerous
nature of the animal, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall place the matter before
the City Council at its next regular meeting. The owner may present evidence in
opposition to the designation of the animal as dangerous. The Enforcement
Officer shall present evidence to the City Council that supports the
determination that the animal is dangerous. Following the hearing, the Council
shall make a determination of the facts and issue an order as to whether or not
said animal is properly characterized as dangerous. If the Council determines
that the animal is dangerous, it will then order the owner to deliver said
animal to the Enforcement Officer for the purpose of euthanizing said animal,
unless the owner provides an alternative proposal, acceptable to the City
Council which may include the permanent removal of the animal from the city
limits.
Editor’s note:
   For any fees or costs associated with a licenses, see the ordinance adopting
a schedule of fines and fees on file in the city offices.
§ 92.15 DANGEROUS ANIMAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Requirements. If the City Council does not order the destruction of an
animal that has been declared dangerous, the City Council may, as an
alternative, order any or all of the following:
      (1)   That the owner provides and maintain a proper enclosure for the
dangerous animal as specified in §
92.13(B);
      (2)   Post the front and the rear of the premises with clearly visible
warning signs, including a warning symbol to inform children, that there is a
dangerous animal on the property as specified in M.S. §§ 347.50 to 347.56, as
it may be amended from time to time;
      (3)   Provide and show proof annually of public liability insurance in
the minimum amount of $300,000;
      (4)   If the animal is a dog and is outside the proper enclosure, the dog
must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or restraint (not to
exceed six feet in length) and under the physical restraint of a person 18
years of age or older. The muzzle must be of such design as to prevent the dog
from biting any person or animal, but will not cause injury to the dog or
interfere with its vision or respiration; and
      (5)   The owner must annually license dangerous and potentially dangerous
dogs with the city and must license a newly declared dangerous or potentially
dangerous dog within 14 days after notice that a dog has been declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous. Regardless of any appeal that may be
requested, the owner must comply with the requirements of M.S. § 347.52(a) and
(c), as it may be amended from time to time regarding proper enclosures and
notification to the city upon transfer or death of the dog, until and unless a
hearing officer or court of law reverses the declaration.
      (6)   Any or all additional requirements permitted under M.S. § 347.50 to
347.56, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Seizure. The Enforcement Officer shall immediately seize any dangerous
animal if the owner does not meet any of the above requirements imposed by the
City Council within 14 days after the date notice is sent to the owner that the
animal is dangerous.
   (C)   Reclaiming dangerous animals. A dangerous animal seized under division
(B), above, may be reclaimed by the owner of the animal upon payment of
impounding and boarding fees, and presenting proof to Enforcement Officer that
each of the requirements under division (A), above, is fulfilled. An animal not
reclaimed under this section within 14 days may be disposed of as provided
under §
92.06 and the owner is liable to the city for all costs incurred in confining
the animal and having the animal destroyed including, but not limited to,
reimbursement of all of the city's legal fees and court costs.
   (D)   Subsequent offenses. If an owner of an animal has subsequently
violated the provisions under §
92.14 with the same animal, the animal must be seized by the Enforcement
Officer. The owner may request a hearing as provided for in §
92.14. If the owner is found to have violated the provisions for which the
animal was seized, the Enforcement Officer shall order the animal destroyed in
a proper and humane manner and the owner shall pay the costs of confining,
impounding and destroying the animal. If the person is found not to have
violated the provisions for which the animal was seized, the owner may reclaim
the animal under the provisions of §
92.15(C). If the animal is not yet reclaimed by the owner within 14 days after
the date the owner is notified that the animal may be reclaimed, the animal may
be disposed of as provided under §
92.06 and the owner is liable to the animal control for the costs incurred in
confining, impounding and destroying of the animal.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16 BASIC CARE.
   All animals shall receive from their owners or keepers kind treatment,
housing in the winter, and sufficient food and water for their comfort. Any
person not treating their pet in such a humane manner will be subject to the
penalties provided in this section.
§ 92.17 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   No person shall in any manner molest, hinder, or interfere with any person
authorized by the Council to capture dogs, cats or other animals and convey
them to the pound while engaged in such operation. Nor shall any unauthorized
person break open the pound, or attempt to do so, or take or attempt to take
from any agent any animal taken up by him or her in compliance with this
section, or in any other manner to interfere with or hinder such officer in the
discharge of his or her duties under this section.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It is unlawful for the owner of any domestic animal to violate the
provisions of this section or (1) to own or keep a domestic animal which is
dangerous (any animal which has caused injury to persons or property shall be
deemed “dangerous”); or (2) to interfere with the Animal Enforcement Officer,
any Police Officer, or other city employee, in the performance of their duty to
enforce this section; or (3) to allow their domestic animal to frequent school
grounds, parks, or public beaches or to chase vehicles, or to molest or annoy
any person away from the property of its owner or custodian, or to damage,
defile or destroy public or private property.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTIES.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, violation of this section shall constitute
a misdemeanor. Violations of §§
92.02,
92.08 and
92.16 are petty misdemeanors punishable by a fine of up to $200.
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
93.01   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
93.02   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
93.03   Materials on street or sidewalk
Cross-reference:
   Right-of-way management, see Ch. 94
§ 93.01 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall encumber any street, sidewalk, or right-of-way. No
owner, occupant, or person having the care of any building or lot of land,
bordering on any street, sidewalk, or right-of-way shall permit it to be
encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans, articles, or substances of any kind, so
as to interfere with the free and unobstructed use thereof.
   (B)   Except for the actions of the city employees and contractors carrying
out their duties, no person shall:
      (1)   Obstruct any street or sidewalk by depositing snow or ice thereon;
      (2)   Dig any holes in any street, sidewalk or right-of-way;
      (3)   Remove any earth, gravel, or rock from any street, sidewalk or
right-of-way;
      (4)   Obstruct any ditch draining any street or drain any noisome
materials into any ditch;
      (5)   Deface, mar, damage, or tamper with any structure, work, material,
equipment, tools, signs, markers, signals, paving, guardrails, drains or any
other highway appurtenance on or along any street, sidewalk or right-of-way;
      (6)   Remove, injure, displace, or destroy right-of-way markers, or
reference or witness monuments, or markers placed to preserve section or
quarter-section corners;
      (7)   Drive or park over or on any city street, public way or highway,
sidewalk curb cut or sidewalk pedestrian ramp;
      (8)   Drive over, through, or around any barricade, fence, or obstruction
erected for the purpose of preventing traffic from passing over a portion of a
street or sidewalk closed to public travel or to remove, deface, or damage any
such barricade, fence or obstruction.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
94.01   Findings, purpose, and intent
   
94.02   Election to manage the public rights-of-way
   
94.03   Definitions
   
94.04   Administration
   
94.05   Utility Coordination Committee
   
94.06   Registration and right-of-way occupancy
   
94.07   Registration information
   
94.08   Reporting obligations
   
94.09   Permit requirement
   
94.10   Permit applications
   
94.11   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
94.12   Action on small wireless facility permit applications
   
94.13   Permit fees
   
94.14   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
94.15   Joint applications
   
94.16   Supplementary applications
   
94.17   Other obligations
   
94.18   Denial or revocation of permit
   
94.19   Installation requirements
   
94.20   Inspection
   
94.21   Work done without a permit
   
94.22   Supplementary notification
   
94.23   Revocation of permits
   
94.24   Mapping data
   
94.25   Location and relocation of facilities
   
94.26   Pre-excavation facilities location
   
94.27   Damage to other facilities
   
94.28   Right-of-way vacation
   
94.29   Indemnification and liability
   
94.30   Abandoned and unusable facilities
   
94.31   Appeal
   
94.32   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
§ 94.01 FINDINGS, PURPOSE, AND INTENT.
   (A)   To provide for the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens, and to
ensure the integrity of its streets and the appropriate use of the rights-of-
way, the city strives to keep its rights-of-way in a state of good repair and
free from unnecessary encumbrances.
   (B)   Accordingly, the city hereby enacts this new chapter of this code
relating to right-of-way permits and administration. This chapter imposes
reasonable regulation on the placement and maintenance of facilities and
equipment currently within its rights-of-way or to be placed therein at some
future time. It is intended to complement the regulatory roles of state and
federal agencies. Under this chapter, persons excavating and obstructing the
rights-of-way will bear financial responsibility for their work. Finally, this
chapter provides for recovery of out-of-pocket and projected costs from persons
using the public rights-of-way.
   (C)   This chapter shall be interpreted consistently with M.S. §§ 237.16,
237.162, 237.163, 237.79, 237.81, and 238.086 (the "Act") and the other laws
governing applicable rights of the city and users of the right-of-way. This
chapter shall also be interpreted consistent with Minn. Rules parts 7819.0050
through 7819.9950 and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560 where possible. To the extent any
provision of this chapter cannot be interpreted consistently with the Minnesota
Rules, that interpretation most consistent with the Act and other applicable
statutory and case law is intended. This chapter shall not be interpreted to
limit the regulatory and police powers of the city to adopt and enforce general
ordinances necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.02 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative and common law, the city hereby elects, pursuant to
M.S. § 237.163 subd. 2(b), to manage rights-of-way within its jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply in this chapter of this code. References
hereafter to "sections" are, unless otherwise specified, references to sections
in this chapter. Defined terms remain defined terms, whether or not
capitalized.
   ABANDONED FACILITY. A facility no longer in service or physically
disconnected from a portion of the operating facility, or from any other
facility, that is in use or still carries service. A facility is not abandoned
unless declared so by the right-of-way user.
   APPLICANT. Any person requesting permission to excavate, obstruct, or
otherwise place facilities in a right-of-way.
   CITY. The City of Emily, Minnesota. For purposes of §
94.29, CITY also means the city's elected officials, officers, employees, and
agents.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace a small wireless facility on, under, within, or adjacent to an existing
wireless support structure or utility pole that is owned privately, or by the
city or other governmental unit.
   COMMISSION. The State of Minnesota Public Utilities Commission.
   CONSTRUCTION PERFORMANCE BOND. Any of the following forms of security
provided at permittee's option:
      (1)   Individual project bond;
      (2)   Cash deposit;
      (3)   Security of a form listed or approved under M.S. § 15.73, subd. 3;
      (4)   Letter of credit, in a form acceptable to the city;
      (5)   Self-insurance, in a form acceptable to the city;
      (6)   A blanket bond for projects within the city, or other form of
construction bond, for a time specified and in a form acceptable to the city.
   DEGRADATION. A decrease in the useful life of the right-of-way caused by
excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct such right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
or disturbance did not occur.
   DEGRADATION COST. Subject to Minn. Rules part 7819.1100, means the cost to
achieve a level of restoration, as determined by the city at the time the
permit is issued, not to exceed the maximum restoration shown in plates 1 to
13, set forth in Minn. Rules parts 7819.9900 through 7819.9950.
   DEGRADATION FEE. The estimated fee established at the time of permitting by
the city to recover costs associated with the decrease in the useful life of
the right-of-way caused by the excavation, and which equals the degradation
cost.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Public Works of the city, or
their designee.
   DELAY/PENALTY. The penalty imposed as a result of unreasonable delays in
right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration as established
by permit.
   EMERGENCY. A condition that:
      (1)   Poses a danger to life or health, or a significant loss of
property; or
      (2)   Requires immediate repair or replacement of facilities in order to
restore service to a customer.
   EQUIPMENT. Any tangible asset used to install, repair, or maintain
facilities in any right-of-way.
   EXCAVATE. To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or
penetrate any part of a right-of-way.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a person may excavate in a right-of-way. An excavation permit
allows the holder to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such
permit.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by an applicant to cover the
costs as provided in §
94.13.
   FACILITY or FACILITIES. Any tangible asset in the right-of-way used to
provide utility or telecommunications service.
   FIVE-YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the city for construction
within the next five years.
   LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE. A local person or persons, or designee of such person
or persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and to make decisions
for that registrant regarding all matters within the scope of this chapter.
   MANAGEMENT COSTS.  The actual costs the city incurs in managing its rights-
of-way, including such costs, if incurred, as those associated with registering
applicants; issuing, processing, and verifying right-of-way or small wireless
facility permit applications; inspecting job sites and restoration projects;
maintaining, supporting, protecting, or moving user facilities during right-of-
way work; determining the adequacy of right-of-way restoration; restoring work
inadequately performed after providing notice and the opportunity to correct
the work; and revoking right-of-way or small wireless facility permits.
Management costs do not include payment by a telecommunications right-of-way
user for the use of the right-of-way, unreasonable fees of a third-party
contractor used by the city including fees tied to or based on customer counts,
access lines, or revenues generated by the right-of-way or for the city, the
fees and cost of litigation relating to the interpretation of M.S. §§ 237.162
or 237.163; or any costs enacted under those sections, or the city fees and
costs related to appeals taken pursuant to §
94.31 of this chapter.
   OBSTRUCT. To place any tangible object in a right-of-way so as to hinder
free and open passage over that or any part of the right-of-way, or so as to
hinder maintenance of any city asset.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a person may obstruct a right-of-way, allowing the holder to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of that right-of-way,
for the duration specified therein.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by a permittee to cover the
costs as provided in §
94.13.
   PATCH or PATCHING. A method of pavement replacement that is temporary in
nature. A patch consists of:
      (1)   The compaction of the subbase and aggregate base; and
      (2)   The replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement for a minimum of
two feet beyond the edges of the excavation in all directions. A patch is
considered full restoration only when the pavement is included in the city's
five-year project plan.
   PAVEMENT. Any type of improved surface that is within the public right-of-
way and that is paved or otherwise constructed with bituminous, concrete,
aggregate, or gravel.
   PERMIT. Has the meaning given "right-of-way permit" in this chapter.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a permit to excavate or obstruct a right-of-
way has been granted by the city under this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of this state,
however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or foreign,
whether for profit or nonprofit, and whether natural, corporate, or political.
   PROBATION. The status of a person that has not complied with the conditions
of this chapter.
   PROBATIONARY PERIOD. One year from the date that a person has been notified
in writing that they have been put on probation.
   REGISTRANT. Any person who:
      (1)   Has or seeks to have its equipment or facilities located in any
right-of-way; or
      (2)   In any way occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or use, the right-
of-way or place its facilities or equipment in the right-of-way.
   RESTORE or RESTORATION. The process by which an excavated right-of-way and
surrounding area, including pavement and foundation, is returned to the same
condition and life expectancy that existed before excavation.
   RESTORATION COST. The amount of money paid to the city by a permittee to
achieve the level of restoration according to plates 1 to 13 of Minnesota
Public Utilities Commission rules.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY or PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public
roadway, highway, street, cartway, bicycle lane, or public sidewalk in which
the city has an interest, including other dedicated rights-of-way for travel
purposes and utility easements of the city. A RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include the
airwaves above a right-of-way with regard to cellular or other non-wire
telecommunications or broadcast service.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT. Either the excavation permit, the obstruction permit,
the small cell permit or any combination thereof depending on the context,
required by this chapter.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY USER.
      (1)   A telecommunications right-of-way user as defined by M.S. §
237.162, subd. 4; or
      (2)   A person owning or controlling a facility in the right-of-way that
is used or intended to be used for providing utility service, and who has a
right under law, franchise, or ordinance to use the public right-of-way.
   SERVICE or UTILITY SERVICE. Includes:
      (1)   Those services provided by a public utility as defined in M.S. §
216B.02, subds. 4 and 6;
      (2)   Services of a telecommunications right-of-way user, including
transporting of voice or data information;
      (3)   Services of a cable communications systems as defined in M.S. Ch.
238;
      (4)   Natural gas or electric energy or telecommunications services
provided by the city;
      (5)   Services provided by a cooperative electric association organized
under M.S. Ch. 308A; and
      (6)   Water, and sewer, including service laterals, steam, cooling, or
heating services.
   SERVICE LATERAL. An underground facility that is used to transmit,
distribute or furnish gas, electricity, communications, or water from a common
source to an end-use customer. A service lateral is also an underground
facility that is used in the removal of wastewater from a customer's premises.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or could fit within such an enclosure; and
      (2)   All other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless
facility provided such equipment is, in aggregate, no more than 28 cubic feet
in volume, not including electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, battery backup power systems, grounding
equipment, power transfer switches, cutoff switches, cable, conduit, vertical
cable runs for the connection of power and other services, and any equipment
concealed from public view within or behind an existing structure or
concealment.
   SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION. An application made to excavate or obstruct more
of the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend, a permit that had already
been issued.
   TEMPORARY SURFACE. The compaction of subbase and aggregate base and
replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement only to the edges of the
excavation. It is temporary in nature except when the replacement is of
pavement included in the city's two-year plan, in which case it is considered
full restoration.
   TRENCH. An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length
equal to or greater than the width of the pavement.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY USER. A person owning or controlling a
facility in the right-of-way or seeking to own or control a facility in the
right-of-way that is used or is intended to be used for providing wireless
service, or transporting telecommunication or other voice or data information.
For purposes of this chapter, a cable communication system defined and
regulated under M.S. Ch. 238, and telecommunication activities related to
providing natural gas or electric energy services, a public utility as defined
in M.S. § 216B.02, a municipality, a municipal gas or power agency organized
under M.S. Ch. 453 and 453A, or a cooperative electric association organized
under M.S. Ch. 308A, are not telecommunications right-of-way users for purposes
of this chapter except to the extent such entity is offering wireless service.
   TWO-YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the city for construction
within the next two years.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole that is used in whole or in part to facilitate
telecommunications or electric service.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables the provision
of wireless services between user equipment and a wireless service network,
including equipment associated with wireless service, a radio transceiver,
antenna, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and a
small wireless facility, but not including wireless support structures,
wireline backhaul facilities, or cables between utility poles or wireless
support structures, or not otherwise immediately adjacent to and directly
associated with a specific antenna.
   WIRELESS SERVICE. Any service using licensed or unlicensed wireless
spectrum, including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or by means
of a mobile device, that is provided using wireless facilities. Wireless
service does not include services regulated under Title VI of the
Communications Act of 1934, as amended, including cable service.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A new or existing structure in a right-of-way
designed to support or capable of supporting small wireless facilities, as
reasonably determined by the city.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Director is the principal city official responsible for the
administration of the rights-of-way, right-of-way permits, and the ordinances
related thereto. The Director may delegate any or all of the duties hereunder.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.05 UTILITY COORDINATION COMMITTEE.
   The city may create an advisory Utility Coordination Committee.
Participation on the Committee is voluntary. It will be composed of any
registrants that wish to assist the city in obtaining information and, by
making recommendations regarding use of the right-of-way, and to improve the
process of performing construction work therein. The city may determine the
size of such Committee and shall appoint members from a list of registrants
that have expressed a desire to assist the city.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.06 REGISTRATION AND RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Registration. Each person authorized to occupy or use, or seeks to
occupy or use, the right-of-way or place any equipment or facilities in or on
the right-of-way, including persons with installation and maintenance
responsibilities by lease, sublease, or assignment, must register with the
city. Registration will consist of providing application information.
   (B)   Registration prior to work. No person may construct, install, repair,
remove, relocate, or perform any other work on, or use any facilities or any
part thereof, in any right-of-way without first being registered with the city.
   (C)   Exceptions. Nothing herein shall be construed to repeal or amend the
provisions of a city ordinance permitting persons to plant or maintain
boulevard plantings or gardens in the area of the right-of-way between their
property and the street curb. Persons planting or maintaining boulevard
plantings or gardens shall not be deemed to use or occupy the right-of-way, and
shall not be required to obtain any permits or satisfy any other requirements
for planting or maintaining such boulevard plantings or gardens under this
chapter. However, nothing herein relieves a person from complying with the
provisions of the M.S. Ch. 216D, Gopher One Call Law.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.07 REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information required. Registration shall be requested on an
application form produced by the city. The information provided to the city at
the time of registration shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Each registrant's name, Gopher One-Call registration certificate
number, address and email address, if applicable, and telephone and fax
numbers.
      (2)   The name, address, and email address, if applicable, and telephone
and fax numbers of a local representative. The local representative or designee
shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to contact
the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time of
registration.
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of
Minnesota, or a form of self-insurance acceptable to the city.
         (b)   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the:
            1.   Use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees, and permittees; and
            2.   Placement and use of facilities and equipment in the right-of-
way by the registrant, its officers, agents, employees, and permittees,
including, but not limited to, protection against liability arising from
completed operations, damage of underground facilities, and collapse of
property.
         (c)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all such coverages;
         (d)   Requiring that the city be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term; and
         (e)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers' compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the city in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to carry
out the purposes and policies of this chapter.
         (f)   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies.
         (g)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate is
required to be filed under state law as recorded and certified to by the
Secretary of State.
         (h)   A copy of the person's order granting a certificate of authority
from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other authorization or
approval from the applicable state or federal agency to lawfully operate, where
the person is lawfully required to have such authorization or approval from
said commission or other state or federal agency.
      (4)   Any other information deemed necessary by the City Engineer deemed
necessary to adequately protect the health, safety, and welfare of the city.
   (B)   Notice of changes. The registrant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times by providing to the city information as to
changes within 15 days following the date on which the registrant has knowledge
of any change.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.08 REPORTING OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Operations. Each registrant shall, at the time of registration and by
December 1 of each year, file a construction and major maintenance plan for
underground facilities with the city. Such plan shall be submitted using a
format designated by the city and shall contain the information determined by
the city to be necessary to facilitate the coordination and reduction in the
frequency of excavations and obstructions of rights-of-way. The plan shall
include, but not be limited to, the following information:
      (1)   The locations and the estimated beginning and ending dates of all
projects to be commenced during the next calendar year (in this section, a
"next-year project"); and
      (2)   To the extent known, the tentative locations and estimated
beginning and ending dates for all projects contemplated for the five years
following the next calendar year (in this section, a "five-year project").
         (a)   The term "project" in this section shall include both next-year
projects and five-year projects.
         (b)   By January 1 of each year, the city will have available for
inspection in the city's office a composite list of all projects of which the
city has been informed of the annual plans. All registrants are responsible for
keeping themselves informed of the current status of this list.
         (c)   Thereafter, by February 1, each registrant may change any
project in its list of next year projects, and must notify the city and all
other registrants of all such changes in said list. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, a registrant may at any time join in a next-year project of another
registrant listed by the other registrant.
   (B)   Additional next-year projects. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
will not deny an application for a right-of-way permit for failure to include a
project in a plan submitted to the city if the registrant has used commercially
reasonable efforts to anticipate and plan for the project.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.09 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way, or install or place facilities in
the right-of-way, without first having obtained the appropriate right-of-way
permit from the city to do so.
      (1)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required by a registrant
to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such permit and to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by
placing facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration
specified therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit. An obstruction permit is required by a
registrant to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of right-
of-way by placing equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the
extent and for the duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not
required if a person already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same
project.
      (3)   Small wireless facility permit. A small wireless facility permit is
required by a registrant to erect or install a wireless support structure, to
collocate a small wireless facility, or to otherwise install a small wireless
facility in the specified portion or the right-of-way, to the extent specified
therein, provided that such permit shall remain in effect for the length of
time the facility is in use, unless lawfully revoked.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless:
      (1)   Such person makes a supplementary application for another right-of-
way permit before the expiration of the initial permit; and
      (2)   A new permit or permit extension is granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rules part 7819.1000 subp. 3
and notwithstanding division (A)(2) of this section, the city shall establish
and impose a delay penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation,
obstruction, patching, or restoration. The delay penalty shall be established
from time to time by City Council resolution.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this chapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the city.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.10 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit is made to the city on forms approved by the City
Engineer or the City Engineer's designee. Right-of-way permit applications
shall contain, and will be considered complete only upon compliance with, the
requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Registration with the city pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed facilities
and all other information deemed relevant by the City Engineer.
   (C)   Payment of money due to the city for:
      (1)   Permit fees, estimated restoration costs, and other management
costs;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city
because of applicant's prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way
or any emergency actions taken by the city; and
      (4)   Franchise fees or other charges, if applicable.
   (D)   Payment of disputed amounts due the city by posting security or
depositing in an escrow account an amount equal to at least 110% of the amount
owing.
   (E)   Posting an additional or larger construction performance bond for
additional facilities when applicant requests an excavation permit to install
additional facilities and the city deems the existing construction performance
bond inadequate under applicable standards.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.11 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the city shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The city may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use. In addition, a permittee shall comply with all
requirements of local, state, and federal laws, including but not limited to
M.S. §§ 216D.01 through 216D.09 (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System) and
Minn. Rules Ch. 7560.
   (C)   Small wireless facility conditions. In addition to division (B), the
erection or installation of a wireless support structure, the collocation of a
small wireless facility, or other installation of a small wireless facility in
the right-of-way, shall be subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   A small wireless facility shall only be collocated on the
particular wireless support structure, under those attachment specifications,
and at the height indicated in the applicable permit application.
      (2)   No new wireless support structure installed within the right-of-way
shall exceed 50 feet in height without the city's written authorization,
provided that the city may impose a lower height limit in the applicable permit
to protect the public health, safety and welfare or to protect the right-of-way
and its current use, and further provided that a registrant may replace an
existing wireless support structure exceeding 50 feet in height with a
structure of the same height subject to such conditions or requirements as may
be imposed in the applicable permit.
      (3)   No wireless facility may extend more than ten feet above its
wireless support structure.
      (4)   Where an applicant proposes to install a new wireless support
structure in the right-of-way, the city may impose separation requirements
between such structure and any existing wireless support structure or other
facilities in and around the right-of-way.
      (5)   Where an applicant proposes collocation on a decorative wireless
support structure, sign or other structure not intended to support small
wireless facilities, such equipment shall be consistent with the city's
aesthetic standards regarding wireless equipment as adopted by the City
Engineer. Such standards shall ensure that wireless equipment is installed with
a stealth design and that equipment does not detract from the character of the
area in which it is installed. In addition, the City Engineer shall adopt
standards that ensure city assets can continue to effectively perform their
intended function. Standards shall be made available with the application
required for a small cell permit.
      (6)   Where an applicant proposes to replace a wireless support
structure, the city may impose reasonable restocking, replacement, or
relocation requirements on the replacement of such structure.
      (7)   A permit will be deemed void if the approved equipment is not
installed within one year of issuance of the permit.
   (D)   Small wireless facility agreement. A small wireless facility shall
only be collocated on a small wireless support structure owned or controlled by
the city, or any other city asset in the right-of-way, after the applicant has
executed a standard small wireless facility collocation agreement with the
city. The standard collocation agreement may require payment of the following:
      (1)   Up to $150 per year for rent to collocate on the city structure.
      (2)   Twenty-five dollars per year for maintenance associated with the
collocation;
      (3)   A monthly fee for electrical service as follows:
         (a)   Seventy-three dollars per radio node less than or equal to 100
maximum watts;
         (b)   One-hundred-and-eighty-two dollars per radio node over 100
maximum watts; or
         (c)   The actual costs of electricity, if the actual cost exceed the
foregoing.
   (E)   The standard collocation agreement shall be in addition to, and not in
lieu of, the required small wireless facility permit, provided, however, that
the applicant shall not be additionally required to obtain a license or
franchise in order to collocate. Issuance of a small wireless facility permit
does not supersede, alter or affect any then-existing agreement between the
city and applicant.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.12 ACTION ON SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Deadline for action. The city shall approve or deny a small wireless
facility permit application within 90 days after filing of such application or
within any timeline established by state law. The small wireless facility
permit, and any associated building permit application, shall be deemed
approved if the city fails to approve or deny the application within the review
periods established in this section.
   (B)   Consolidated applications. An applicant may file a consolidated small
wireless facility permit application addressing the proposed collocation of up
to 15 small wireless facilities, or a greater number if agreed to by a local
government unit, provided that all small wireless facilities in the
application:
      (1)   Are located within a two-mile radius;
      (2)   Consist of substantially similar equipment; and
      (3)   Are to be placed on similar types of wireless support structures.
   (C)   In rendering a decision on a consolidated permit application, the city
may approve some small wireless facilities and deny others, but may not use
denial of one or more permits as a basis to deny all small wireless facilities
in the application.
   (D)   Tolling of deadline. The 90-day deadline for action on a small
wireless facility permit application may be tolled if:
      (1)   The city receives applications from one or more applicants seeking
approval of permits for more than 30 small wireless facilities within a seven-
day period. In such case, the city may extend the deadline for all such
applications by 30 days by informing the affected applicants in writing of such
extension.
      (2)   The applicant fails to submit all required documents or information
and the city provides written notice of incompleteness to the applicant within
30 days of receiving the application. Upon submission of additional documents
or information, the city shall have ten days to notify the applicant in writing
of any still-missing information.
      (3)   The city and a small wireless facility applicant agree in writing
to toll the review period.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.13 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. The city shall impose an excavation permit fee
in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      (1)   The city management costs; and
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstruction permit fee. The city shall impose an obstruction permit
fee in an amount sufficient to recover the city management costs.
   (C)   Small wireless facility permit fee. The city shall impose a small
wireless facility permit fee in an amount sufficient to recover:
      (1)   Management costs; and
      (2)   City engineering, make-ready, and construction costs associated
with collocation of small wireless facilities.
   (D)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit, obstruction permit, or
small cell permit shall be issued without payment of all required fees. The
city may allow applicant to pay such fees within 30 days of billing.
   (E)   Non-refundable. Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the city
has revoked for a breach as stated in §
94.23 are not refundable.
   (F)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.14 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under §
94.17(B).
   (B)   Patch and restoration. Permittee shall patch its own work. The city
may choose either to have the permittee restore the right-of-way or to restore
the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, permittee
shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If, following such
restoration, the pavement settles due to permittee's improper backfilling, the
permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, all costs
associated with correcting the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rules
part 7819.3000.
      (3)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee. However,
the right-of-way user shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation
fee shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform excavation, backfilling,
patching, and restoration according to the standards and with the materials
specified by the city and shall comply with Minn. Rules part 7819.1100.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching or restoration performed by permittee or its agents. The permittee
upon notification from the city, shall correct all restoration work to the
extent necessary, using the method required by the city. Said work shall be
completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the city,
not including days during which work cannot be done because of circumstances
constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as unseasonable or
unreasonable under §
94.17(B).
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the city, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the city, the
city at its option may do such work. In that event the permittee shall pay to
the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way. If
permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its rights under the
construction performance bond.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.15 JOINT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Joint application. Registrants may jointly apply for permits to
excavate or obstruct the right-of-way at the same place and time.
   (B)   Shared fees. Registrants who apply for permits for the same
obstruction or excavation, which the city does not perform, may share in the
payment of the obstruction or excavation permit fee. In order to obtain a joint
permit, registrants must agree among themselves as to the portion each will pay
and indicate the same on their applications.
   (C)   With city projects. Registrants who join in a scheduled obstruction or
excavation performed by the city, whether or not it is a joint application by
two or more registrants or a single application, are not required to pay the
excavation or obstruction and degradation portions of the permit fee, but a
permit would still be required.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.16 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated before working in that greater area
must:
      (1)   Make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees
required thereby; and
      (2)   Be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.17 OTHER OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with other laws. Obtaining a right-of-way permit does not
relieve permittee of its duty to obtain all other necessary permits, licenses,
and authority and to pay all fees required by the city or other applicable
rule, law or regulation. A permittee shall comply with all requirements of
local, state and federal laws, including but not limited to M.S. §§ 216D.01
through 216D.09 (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System) and Minn. Rules Ch.
7560. A permittee shall perform all work in conformance with all applicable
codes and established rules and regulations and is responsible for all work
done in the right-of-way pursuant to its permit, regardless of who does the
work.
   (B)   Prohibited work. Except in an emergency, and with the approval of the
city, no right-of-way obstruction or excavation may be done when seasonally
prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work.
   (C)   Interference with right-of-way. A permittee shall not so obstruct a
right-of-way that the natural free and clear passage of water through the
gutters or other waterways shall be interfered with. Private vehicles of those
doing work in the right-of-way may not be parked within or next to a permit
area, unless parked in conformance with city parking regulations. The loading
or unloading of trucks must be done solely within the defined permit area
unless specifically authorized by the permit.
   (D)   Trenchless excavation. As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including but not limited
to horizontal directional drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
M.S. Ch. 216D and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560 and shall require potholing or open
cutting over existing underground utilities before excavating, as determined by
the Director.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.18 DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Reasons for denial. The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the
requirements and conditions of this chapter or if the city determines that the
denial is necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public or
when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use and any city
asset or facility.
   (B)   Procedural requirements. The denial or revocation of a permit must be
made in writing and must document the basis for the denial. The city must
notify the applicant or right-of-way user in writing within three business days
of the decision to deny or revoke a permit. If an application is denied, the
right-of-way user may address the reasons for denial identified by the city and
resubmit its application. If the application is resubmitted within 30 days of
receipt of the notice of denial, no additional application fee shall be
imposed. The city must approve or deny the resubmitted application within 30
days after submission.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.19 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules
part 7819.1100 and 7819.5000 and other applicable local requirements, in so far
as they are not inconsistent with the M.S. §§ 237.162 and 237.163. Installation
of service laterals shall be performed in accordance with Minn. Rules Ch. 7560
and these sections. Service lateral installation is further subject to those
requirements and conditions set forth by the city in the applicable permits
and/or agreements referenced in § 94.09 of this chapter.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.20 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
Minn. Rules part 7819.1300 or other documentation as deemed necessary by the
city engineer.
   (B)   Site inspection. Permittee shall make the work site available to the
city and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable
times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of Director.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the Director may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety,
or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The Director may issue an order to the permittee for any work that
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the Director that
the violation has been corrected. If such proof has not been presented within
the required time, the Director may revoke the permit pursuant to §
94.23.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.21 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations. Each registrant shall immediately notify the
Director of any event regarding its facilities that it considers to be an
emergency. The registrant may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary to
respond to the emergency. Excavators' notification to Gopher State One Call
regarding an emergency situation does not fulfill this requirement. Within two
business days after the occurrence of the emergency, the registrant shall apply
for the necessary permits, pay the fees associated therewith, and fulfill the
rest of the requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with this
chapter for the actions it took in response to the emergency. If the city
becomes aware of an emergency regarding a registrant's facilities, the city
will attempt to contact the local representative of each registrant affected,
or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event, the city may take
whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost of
which shall be borne by the registrant whose facilities occasioned the
emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit and, as a penalty, pay double
the normal fee for said permit, pay double all the other fees required by the
city code, deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to
the right-of-way, and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.22 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the city of
the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.23 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit without a fee refund, if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner, unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittee's control; or
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
94.14.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation, or any condition of the permit, the city shall
make a written demand upon the permittee to remedy such violation. The demand
shall state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the
permit. A substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its
discretion, to place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate
and remedy the breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city, that will cure the breach. Permittee's failure to so
contact the city, or permittee's failure to timely submit an acceptable plan,
or permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be
cause for immediate revocation of the permit. Further, permittee's failure to
so contact the city, or permittee's failure to submit an acceptable plan, or
permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall
automatically place the permittee on probation for one full year.
   (D)   Cause for probation. From time to time, the city may establish a list
of conditions of the permit, which if breached will automatically place the
permittee on probation for one full year, such as, but not limited to, working
out of the allotted time period or working on right-of-way grossly outside of
the permit authorization.
   (E)   Automatic revocation. If a permittee, while on probation, commits a
breach as outlined above, permittee's permit will automatically be revoked and
permittee will not be allowed further permits for one full year, except for
emergency repairs.
   (F)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city's reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys' fees
incurred in connection with such revocation.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.24 MAPPING DATA.
   (A)   Information required. Each registrant and permittee shall provide
mapping information required by the city in accordance with Minn. Rules parts
7819.4000 and 7819.4100. Within 90 days following completion of any work
pursuant to a permit, the permittee shall provide the Director accurate maps
and drawings certifying the "as-built" location of all equipment installed,
owned, and maintained by the permittee. Such maps and drawings shall include
the horizontal and vertical location of all facilities and equipment and shall
be provided consistent with the city's electronic mapping system, when
practical or as a condition imposed by the Director. Failure to provide maps
and drawings pursuant to this section shall be grounds for revoking the permit
holder's registration.
   (B)   Service laterals. All permits issued for the installation or repair of
service laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minn. Rule part
7560.0150, subp. 2, shall require the permittee's use of appropriate means of
establishing the horizontal locations of installed service laterals and the
service lateral vertical locations in those cases where the Director reasonably
requires it. Permittees or their subcontractors shall submit to the Director
evidence satisfactory to the Director of the installed service lateral
locations. Compliance with this division (B) and with applicable Gopher State
One Call law and Minnesota Rules governing service laterals installed after
Dec. 31, 2005, shall be a condition of any city approval necessary for:
      (1)   Payments to contractors working on a public improvement project,
including those under M.S. Ch. 429, and
      (2)   City approval under development agreements or other subdivision or
site plan approval under M.S. Ch. 462. The Director shall reasonably determine
the appropriate method of providing such information to the city. Failure to
provide prompt and accurate information on the service laterals installed may
result in the revocation of the permit issued for the work or future permits to
the offending permittee or its subcontractors.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.25 LOCATION AND RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Placement, location, and relocation of facilities must comply with the
Act, with other applicable law, with other applicable standards adopted by the
city engineer, and with Minn. Rules parts 7819.3100, 7819.5000, and 7819.5100,
to the extent the rules do not limit authority otherwise available to cities.
   (B)   Corridors. The city may assign a specific area within the right-of-
way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of
facility that is or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will
someday be located within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction, or
other permits issued by the city involving the installation or replacement of
facilities shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue. Any
registrant who has facilities in the right-of-way in a position at variance
with the corridors established by the city shall, no later than at the time of
the next reconstruction or excavation of the area where the facilities are
located, move the facilities to the assigned position within the right-of-way,
unless this requirement is waived by the city for good cause shown, upon
consideration of such factors as the remaining economic life of the facilities,
public safety, customer service needs, and hardship to the registrant.
   (C)   Nuisance. One year after the passage of this chapter, any facilities
found in a right-of-way that have not been registered shall be deemed to be a
nuisance. The city may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in
equity, including, but not limited to, abating the nuisance or taking
possession of the facilities and restoring the right-of-way to a useable
condition.
   (D)   Limitation of space. To protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
public, or when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the
city shall have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or
additional facilities within the right-of-way. In making such decisions, the
city shall strive to the extent possible to accommodate all existing and
potential users of the right-of-way, but shall be guided primarily by
considerations of the public interest, the public's needs for the particular
utility service, the condition of the right-of-way, the time of year with
respect to essential utilities, the protection of existing facilities in the
right-of-way, and future city plans for public improvements and development
projects which have been determined to be in the public interest.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.26  PRE-EXCAVATION FACILITIES LOCATION.
   In addition to complying with the requirements of M.S. §§ 216D.01 through
216D.09 ("One Call Excavation Notice System") before the start date of any
right-of-way excavation, each registrant who has facilities or equipment in the
area to be excavated shall mark the horizontal and vertical placement of all
said facilities. Any registrant whose facilities are less than 20 inches below
a concrete or asphalt surface shall notify and work closely with the excavation
contractor to establish the exact location of its facilities and the best
procedure for excavation.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.27 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support, or move a registrant's facilities to protect it, the city
shall notify the local representative as early as is reasonably possible. The
costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and must be paid
within 30 days from the date of billing. Each registrant shall be responsible
for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way which it or its
facilities damage. Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost of
repairing any damage to the facilities of another registrant caused during the
city's response to an emergency occasioned by that registrant's facilities.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.28 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   Reservation of right. If the city vacates a right-of-way that contains the
facilities of a registrant, the registrant's rights in the vacated right-of-way
are governed by Minn. Rules part 7819.3200.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.29 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By registering with the city, or by accepting a permit under this chapter, a
registrant or permittee agrees to defend and indemnify the city in accordance
with the provisions of Minn. Rules part 7819.1250.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.30 ABANDONED AND UNUSABLE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Discontinued operations. A registrant who has determined to
discontinue all or a portion of its operations in the city must provide
information satisfactory to the city that the registrant's obligations for its
facilities in the right-of-way under this chapter have been lawfully assumed by
another registrant.
   (B)   Removal. Any registrant who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-
way shall remove it from that right-of-way if required in conjunction with
other right-of-way repair, excavation, or construction, unless this requirement
is waived by the city.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.31 APPEAL.
   A right-of-way user that: (A) has been denied registration; (B) has been
denied a permit; (C) has had a permit revoked; (D) believes that the fees
imposed are not in conformity with M.S. § 237.163, subd. 6; or (E) disputes a
determination of the Director regarding §
94.18 of this chapter may have the denial, revocation, fee imposition, or
decision reviewed, upon written request, by the City Council. The City Council
shall act on a timely written request at its next regularly scheduled meeting,
provided the right-of-way user has submitted its appeal with sufficient time to
include the appeal as a regular agenda item. A decision by the City Council
affirming the denial, revocation, or fee imposition will be in writing and
supported by written findings establishing the reasonableness of the decision.
(Ord., passed - -)
§ 94.32 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   A permittee's rights are subject to the regulatory and police powers of the
city to adopt and enforce general ordinances as necessary to protect the
health, safety, and welfare of the public.
(Ord. passed - -)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PAWNBROKERS
      
111.   LIQUOR REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 110: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
110.01   Definition
   
110.02   Reportable, billable transactions
   
110.03   License fees
   
110.04   Application
   
110.05   Bond
   
110.06   Records
   
110.07   Daily reports to police
   
110.08   Receipts
   
110.09   Redemption period
   
110.10   Holding period; police order to hold property
   
110.11   Inspection of items
   
110.12   Label required
   
110.13   Prohibited acts
   
110.14   Denial, suspension or revocation of license
   
110.15   Business at only one place
§ 110.01 DEFINITION.
   A PAWNBROKER is any natural person, partnership or corporation, either as
principal, or agent or employee thereof, who loans money on deposit or pledge
of personal property, or other valuable thing, or who deals in the purchasing
of personal property, or other valuable thing on condition of selling the same
back again at a stipulated price, or who loans money secured by chattel
mortgage on personal property, taking possession of the property or any part
thereof so mortgaged. To the extent that a pawnbroker’s business includes
buying personal property previously used, rented or leased, or selling it on
consignment, the provisions of this chapter shall be applicable.
(Ord. 508, passed 5-9-2006)
§ 110.02 REPORTABLE, BILLABLE TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   Every transaction conducted by a pawnbroker in which merchandise is
received through a pawn, purchase, consignment or trade, or in which a pawn is
renewed, extended or redeemed, or for which a unique transaction number or
identifier is generated by his or her point-of-sale software, or an item is
confiscated by law enforcement, is reportable, except:
      (1)   The bulk purchase or consignment of new or used merchandise from a
merchant, manufacturer or wholesaler having an established permanent place of
business, and the retail sale of said merchandise; provided, the pawnbroker
must maintain a record of such purchase or consignment which describes each
item, and must mark each item in a manner which relates it to that transaction
record; and
      (2)   Retail and wholesale sales of merchandise originally received by
pawn or purchase, and for which all applicable hold and/or redemption periods
have expired.
   (B)   Every reportable transaction conducted by a pawnbroker is a billable
transaction, except renewals, redemptions or extensions of existing pawns on
items previously reported and continuously in the licensee’s possession, voided
transactions and confiscations.
(Ord. 508, passed 5-9-2006)
§ 110.03 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The annual license fees for licenses issued under this chapter shall
be as set forth in the Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in the city offices.
   (B)   The billable transaction license fee shall reflect the cost of
processing transactions and other related regulatory expenses as determined by
the City Council, and shall be reviewed and adjusted, if necessary, annually.
Licensees shall be notified in writing 30 days before any adjustment is
implemented.
   (C)   Billable transaction fees shall be billed monthly and are due and
payable within 30 days. Failure to do so is a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 508, passed 5-9-2006)
§ 110.04 APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application form provided by the city must be completed by every
applicant for a new license or for renewal of an existing license.
   (B)   Every new applicant must provide all the following information:
      (1)   If the applicant is a natural person:
         (a)   The name, place and date of birth, street resident address and
phone number of applicant;
         (b)   Whether the applicant is a citizen of the United States or
resident alien;
         (c)   Whether the applicant has ever used or has been known by a name
other than the applicant’s name and, if so, the name or names used and
information concerning dates and places used;
         (d)   The name of the business if it is to be conducted under a
designation, name or style other than the name of the applicant and a certified
copy of the certificate as required by M.S. § 333.01, as it may be amended from
time to time;
         (e)   The street address at which the applicant has lived during the
preceding five years;
         (f)   The type, name and location of every business or occupation in
which the applicant has been engaged during the preceding five years and the
name(s) and address(es) of the applicant’s employer(s) and partner(s), if any,
for the proceeding five years;
         (g)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony, crime
or violation of any ordinance other than a traffic ordinance. If so, the
applicant must furnish information as to the time, place and offense of all
such convictions;
         (h)   The physical description of the applicant;
         (i)   The applicant’s current personal financial statement and true
copies of the applicant’s federal and state tax returns for the two years prior
to application; and
         (j)   If the applicant does not manage the business, the name of the
manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the business and all information
concerning each of them required in divisions (B)(1)(a) through (B)(1)(h)
above.
      (2)   If the applicant is a partnership:
         (a)   The name(s) and address(es) of all general and limited partners
and all information concerning each general partner required in division (B)(1)
above;
         (b)   The name(s) of the managing partner(s) and the interest of each
partner in the licensed business;
         (c)   A true copy of the partnership agreement shall be submitted with
the application. If the partnership is required to file a certificate as to a
trade name pursuant to M.S. § 333.01, as it may be amended from time to time, a
certified copy of such certificate must be attached to the application;
         (d)   A true copy of the federal and state tax returns for partnership
for the two years prior to application; and
         (e)   If the applicant does not manage the business, the name of the
manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the business and all information
concerning each of them required in divisions (B)(1)(a) through (B)(1)(h)
above.
      (3)   If the applicant is a corporation or other organization:
         (a)   The name of the corporation or business form and, if
incorporated, the state of incorporation;
         (b)   A true copy of the certificate of incorporation, articles of
incorporation or association agreement, and by-laws shall be attached to the
application; if the applicant is a foreign corporation, a certificate of
authority as required by M.S. § 303.06, as it may be amended from time to time,
must be attached;
         (c)   The name of the manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the
business and all information concerning each manager, proprietor or agent
required in divisions (B)(1)(a) through (B)(1)(h) above; and
         (d)   A list of all persons who control or own an interest in excess
of 5% in such organization or business form or who are officers of the
corporation or business form and all information concerning said persons
required in division (B)(1) above. This division (B)(3)(d), however, shall not
apply to a corporation whose stock is publicly traded on a stock exchange and
is applying for a license to be owned and operated by it.
      (4)   For all applicants:
         (a)   Whether the applicant holds a current pawnbroker, precious metal
dealer or secondhand goods dealer license from any other governmental unit;
         (b)   Whether the applicant has previously been denied, or had revoked
or suspended, a pawnbroker, precious metal dealer or secondhand dealer license
from any other governmental unit;
         (c)   The location of the business premises;
         (d)   If the applicant does not own the business premises, a true and
complete copy of the executed lease;
         (e)   The legal description of the premises to be licensed;
         (f)   Whether all real estate and personal property taxes that are due
and payable for the premises to be licensed have been paid and, if not paid,
the years and amounts that are unpaid;
         (g)   Whenever the application is for premises either planned or under
construction or undergoing substantial alteration, the application must be
accompanied by a set of preliminary plans showing the design of the proposed
premises to be licensed; and
         (h)   Such other information as the City Council or issuing authority
may require.
      (5)   When a licensee places a manager in charge of a business, or if the
named manager(s) in charge of a licensed business changes, the licensee must
complete and submit the appropriate application within 14 days. The application
must include all appropriate information required in this section.
      (6)   Upon completion of an investigation of a new manager, the licensee
must pay an amount equal to the cost of the investigation to assure compliance
with this chapter. If the investigation process is conducted solely within the
state, the fee shall be as set forth in the Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in
the city offices. If the investigation is conducted outside the state, the
issuing authority may recover the actual investigation costs as set forth in
the Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in the city offices.
         (a)   Application execution. All applications for a license under this
chapter must be signed and sworn to under oath or affirmation by the applicant.
If the application is that of a natural person, it must be signed and sworn to
by such person; if that of a corporation, by an officer thereof; if that of a
partnership, by one of the general partners; and if that of an unincorporated
association, by the manager or managing officer thereof.
         (b)   Investigation. The Police Department must investigate into the
trustfulness of the statements set forth in the application and shall endorse
the findings thereon. The applicant must furnish to the Police Department such
evidence as the inspector may reasonably require in support of the statements
set forth in the application.
         (c)   Public hearing. The Council member may request a public hearing
at Council, or in the evening hours at a location in the approximate vicinity
of the proposed location.
         (d)   Persons ineligible for a license. No licenses under this chapter
will be issued to an applicant who is a natural person, a partnership if such
applicant has any general partner or managing partner, a corporation or other
organization if such applicant has any manager, proprietor or agent in charge
of the business to be licensed, if the applicant:
            1.   Is a minor at the time that the application is filed;
            2.   Has been convicted of any crime directly related to the
occupation licensed as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, Subd. 2, as it may be
amended from time to time, and has not shown competent evidence of sufficient
rehabilitation and present fitness to perform the duties of a licensee under
this chapter as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from
time to time; or
            3.   Is not of good moral character or repute.
(Ord. 508, passed 5-9-2006)
§ 110.05 BOND.
   Before a license will be issued, every applicant must submit a bond, as set
forth in the Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in the city offices, on the forms
provided by the licensing authority. All bonds must be conditioned that the
principal will observe all laws in relation to pawnbrokers, and will conduct
business in conformity thereto, and that the principal will account for and
deliver to any person legally entitled any goods which have come into the
principal’s hand through the principal’s business as a pawnbroker or, in lieu
thereof, will pay the reasonable value in money to the person. The bond shall
contain a provision that no bond may be canceled, except upon 30 days written
notice to the city, which shall be served upon the licensing authority.
(Ord. 508, passed 5-9-2006)
§ 110.06 RECORDS.
   (A)   General. At the time of any reportable transaction other than
renewals, extensions, redemptions or confiscations, every licensee must
immediately record in English the following information by using ink or other
indelible medium on forms or in a computerized record approved by the Police
Department:
      (1)   A complete and accurate description of each item, including, but
not limited to, any trademark, identification number, serial number, model
number, brand name or other identifying mark on such an item;
      (2)   The purchase price, amount of money loaned upon or pledged
therefor;
      (3)   The maturity date of the transaction and the amount due, including
monthly and annual interest rates and all pawn fees and charges;
      (4)   Date, time and place the item of property was received by the
licensee, and the unique alpha and/or numeric transaction identifier that
distinguishes it from all other transactions in the licensee’s records;
      (5)   Full name, current residence address, current residence telephone
number, date of birth and accurate description of the person from whom the item
of the property was received, including: sex; height; weight; race; color of
eyes; and color of hair;
      (6)   The identification number and state of issue from any of the
following forms of identification of the seller:
         (a)   Current valid Minnesota driver’s license;
         (b)   Current valid Minnesota identification card; and
         (c)   Current valid photo identification card issued by another state
or province of Canada.
      (7)   The signature of the person identified in the transaction; and
      (8)   (a)   Color photos or videos. Effective 60 days from the date of
notification by the Police Department of acceptable video standards, the
licensee must also take a color photograph or color video recording of:
            1.   Each customer involved in a billable transaction;
            2.   Every item pawned or sold that does not have a unique serial
or identification number permanently engraved or affixed; and
            3.   If a photograph is taken, it must be at least two inches in
length by two inches in width and must be maintained in such a manner that the
photograph can be readily matched and correlated with all other records of the
transaction to which they relate. Such photographs must be available to the
Chief of Police, or the Chief’s designee, upon request. The major portion of
the photograph must include an identifiable facial image of the person who
pawned or sold the item. Items photographed must be accurately depicted. The
licensee must inform the person that he or she is being photographed by
displaying a sign of sufficient size in a conspicuous place in the premises. If
a video photograph is taken, the video camera must focus on the person pawning
or selling the item so as to include an identifiable image of that person’s
face. Items photographed by video must be accurately depicted. Video
photographs must be electronically referenced by time and date so they can be
readily matched and correlated with all other records of the transaction to
which they relate. The licensee must inform the person that he or she is being
videotaped by displaying a sign of sufficient size in a conspicuous place on
the premises. The licensee must keep the exposed videotape for three months.
         (b)   Digitized photographs. Effective 60 days from the date of
notification by the Police Department, licensees must fulfill the color
photograph requirements in this division (A)(8) by submitting them as digital
images, in a format specified by the issuing authority, electronically cross-
referenced to the reportable transaction they are associated with.
Notwithstanding, the digital images may be captured from required video
recordings, this provision does not altar or amend the requirements in this
division (A)(8).
   (B)   Renewals, extensions, redemptions and confiscations. For renewals,
extensions, redemptions and confiscations, the licensee shall provide the
original transaction identifier, the date of the current transaction and the
type of transaction.
   (C)   Inspection of records. The records must at all reasonable times be
open to inspection by the Police Department or Department of Licenses and
Consumer Services. Data entries shall be retained for at least three years from
the date of transaction. Entries of required digital images shall be retained a
minimum of 90 days.
(Ord. 508, passed 5-9-2006)
§ 110.07 DAILY REPORTS TO POLICE.
   (A)   Effective no later than 60 days after the Police Department provides
licensees with the current version of the automated pawn system interchange
file specification, licensees must submit every reportable transaction to the
Police Department daily in the following manner.
      (1)   Licensees must provide to the Police Department all reportable
transaction information by transferring it from their computers to the
automated pawn system via modem using the current version of the automated pawn
system interchange file specification. All required records must be transmitted
completely and accurately after the close of business each day in accordance
with standards and procedures established by the issuing authority. Any
transaction that does not meet the automated pawn system interchange file
specification must be corrected and resubmitted the next business day. The
licensee must display a sign of sufficient size, in a conspicuous place in the
premises, which informs patrons that all transactions are reported to the
Police Department daily.
      (2)   Licensees will be charged for each billable transaction reported to
the Police Department.
      (3)   If a licensee is unable to successfully transfer the required
reports by modem, the licensee must provide the Police Department, upon
request, printed copies of all reportable transactions along with the video
tape(s) for that date, by noon the next business day.
         (a)   If the problem is determined to be in the licensee’s system and
is not corrected by the close of the first business day following the failure,
the licensee must continue to provide the required reports as detailed in
division (A)(1) above, and shall be charged $25 to $50 reporting failure
penalty, daily, until the error is corrected.
         (b)   If the problem is determined to be outside the licensee’s
system, the licensee must continue to provide the required reports in division
(A)(1) above and resubmit all such transactions via modem when the error is
corrected.
   (B)   If a licensee is unable to capture, digitize or transmit the
photographs required in §
110.06 of this chapter, the licensee must immediately take all required
photographs with a still camera, cross-reference the photographs to the correct
transaction and make the pictures available to the Police Department upon
request.
   (C)   Regardless of the cause or origin of the technical problems that
prevented the licensee from uploading his or her reportable transactions, upon
correction of the problem, the licensee shall upload every reportable
transaction from every business day the problem had existed.
   (D)   Divisions (A)(1) through (A)(3) above notwithstanding, the Police
Department may, upon presentation of extenuating circumstances, delay the
implementation of the daily reporting penalty.
(Ord. 508, passed 5-9-2006)
§ 110.08 RECEIPTS.
   (A)   Every licensee must provide a receipt to the party identified in every
reportable transaction and must maintain a duplicate of that receipt for three
years.
   (B)   The receipt must include at least the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the licensed business;
      (2)   The date and time the item was received by the licensee;
      (3)   Whether the item was pawned or sold, or the nature of the
transaction;
      (4)   An accurate description of each item received, including, but not
limited to, any trademark, identification number, serial number, model number,
brand name or other identifying mark on such an item;
      (5)   The signature or unique identifier of the licensee or employee that
conducted the transaction;
      (6)   The amount advanced or paid;
      (7)   The monthly and annual interest rates, including all pawn fees and
charges;
      (8)   The last regular day of business by which the item must be redeemed
by the pledger without risk that the item will be sold, and the amount
necessary to redeem the pawned item on that date;
      (9)   The full name, current residence address, current residence
telephone number and date of birth of the pledger or seller;
      (10)   The identification number and state of issue from any of the
following forms of identification of the seller:
         (a)   Current valid Minnesota driver’s license;
         (b)   Current valid Minnesota identification card; and
         (c)   Current valid photo driver’s license or identification card
issued by another state or province of Canada.
      (11)   Description of the pledger or seller including approximate sex,
height, weight, race, color of eyes and color of hair;
      (12)   The signature of the pledger or seller; and
      (13)   All printed statements as required by M.S. § 325J.04, Subd. 2, as
it may be amended from time to time, or any other applicable statutes.
(Ord. 508, passed 5-9-2006)
§ 110.09 REDEMPTION PERIOD.
   Any person pledging, pawning or depositing an item for security must have a
minimum of 90 days from the date of that transaction to redeem the item before
it may be forfeited and sold. During the 90-day holding period, items may not
be removed from the licensed location, except as provided in §
110.15 of this chapter. Licensees are prohibited from redeeming any item to
anyone other than the person to whom the receipt was issued or, to any person
identified in a written and notarized authorization to redeem the property
identified in the receipt, or to a person identified in writing by the pledger
at the time of the initial transaction and signed by the pledger, or with
approval of the Chief of Police, or Chief’s designee. Written authorization for
release of property to persons other than original pledger must be maintained
along with original transaction record in accordance with §
110.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 508, passed 5-9-2006)
§ 110.10 HOLDING PERIOD; POLICE ORDER TO HOLD PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any item purchased or accepted in trade by a licensee must not be sold
or otherwise transferred for 30 days from the date of the transaction. An
individual may redeem an item 72 hours after the item was received on deposit,
excluding Sundays and legal holidays.
   (B)   (1)   Investigative hold. Whenever a law enforcement official from any
agency notifies a licensee not to sell an item, the item must not be sold or
removed from the premises. The investigative hold shall be confirmed in writing
by the originating agency within 72 hours and will remain in effect for 15 days
from the date of initial notification, or until the investigative order is
canceled, or until an order to hold/ confiscate is issued, pursuant to
divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) below, whichever comes first.
      (2)   Order to hold. Whenever the Chief of Police, or the Chief’s
designee, notifies a licensee not to sell an item, the item must not be sold or
removed from the licensed premises until authorized to be released by the Chief
or the Chief’s designee. The order to hold shall expire 90 days from the date
it is placed unless the Chief of Police or the Chief’s designee determines the
hold is still necessary and notifies the licensee in writing.
      (3)   Order to confiscate.
         (a)   If an item is identified as stolen or evidence in a criminal
case, the Chief or Chief’s designee may:
            1.   Physically confiscate and remove it from the shop, pursuant to
a written order from the Chief or the Chief’s designee; or
            2.   Place the item on hold or extend the hold as provided in
division (B)(2) above and leave it in the shop.
         (b)   When an item is confiscated, the person doing so shall provide
identification upon request of the licensee, and shall provide the licensee the
name and phone number of the confiscating agency and investigator, and the case
number related to the confiscation. When an order to hold/ confiscate is no
longer necessary, the Chief of Police or Chief’s designee shall so notify the
licensee.
(Ord. 508, passed 5-9-2006)
§ 110.11 INSPECTION OF ITEMS.
   At all times during the terms of the license, the licensee must allow law
enforcement officials to enter the premises where the licensed business is
located, including all off-site storage facilities as authorized in §
110.15 of this chapter, during normal business hours, except in an emergency,
for the purpose of inspecting such premises and inspecting the items, ware and
merchandise and records therein to verify compliance with this chapter or other
applicable laws.
(Ord. 508, passed 5-9-2006)
§ 110.12 LABEL REQUIRED.
   Licensees must attach a label to every item at the time it is pawned,
purchased or received in inventory from any reportable transaction. Permanently
recorded on this label must be the number or name that identifies the
transaction in the shop’s records, the transaction date, the name of the item
and the description or the model and serial number of the item as reported to
the Police Department, whichever is applicable, and the date the item is out of
pawn or can be sold, if applicable. Labels shall not be re-used.
(Ord. 508, passed 5-9-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.13 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years may pawn or sell or attempt to
pawn or sell goods with any licensee, nor may any licensee receive any goods
from a person under the age of 18 years.
   (B)   No licensee may receive any goods from a person of unsound mind or an
intoxicated person.
   (C)   No licensee may receive any goods, unless the seller presents
identification in the form of a valid driver’s license, a valid Minnesota
identification card or current valid photo driver’s license or identification
card issued by the state or providence of residency of the person from whom the
item was received.
   (D)   No licensee may receive any item of property that possesses an altered
or obliterated serial number or operation identification number or any item of
property that has had its serial number removed.
   (E)   No person may pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave or deposit any
article of property not his or her own; nor shall any person pawn, pledge,
sell, consign, leave or deposit the property of another, whether with
permission or without; nor shall any person pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave
or deposit any article of property in which another has a security interest;
with any licensee.
   (F)   No person seeking to pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave or deposit any
article of property with any licensee shall give a false or fictitious name;
nor give a false date of birth; nor give a false or out of date address of
residence or telephone number; nor present a false or altered identification,
or the identification of another; to any licensee.
(Ord. 508, passed 5-9-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.14 DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license under this chapter may be denied, suspended or revoked for one
or more of the following reasons:
   (A)   The proposed use does not comply with the any applicable zoning code;
   (B)   The proposed use does not comply with any health, building, building
maintenance or other provisions of this code of ordinances or state law;
   (C)   The applicant or licensee has failed to comply with one or more
provisions of this chapter;
   (D)   The applicant is not a citizen of the United States or a resident
alien, or upon whom it is impractical or impossible to conduct a background or
financial investigation due to the unavailability of information;
   (E)   Fraud, misrepresentation or bribery in securing or renewing a license;
   (F)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made in the application
and investigation for, or in the course of, the applicant’s business;
   (G)   Violation within the preceding five years, of any law relating to
theft, damage or trespass to property, sale of a controlled substance or
operation of a business; and/or
   (H)   The owner of the premises licensed or to be licensed would not qualify
for a license under the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 508, passed 5-9-2006)
§ 110.15 BUSINESS AT ONLY ONE PLACE.
   (A)   (1)   A license under this chapter authorizes the licensee to carry on
his or her business only at the permanent place of business designated in the
license.
      (2)   However, upon written request, the Chief of Police or Chief’s
designee may approve an off-site locked and secured storage facility. The
licensee shall permit inspection of the facility in accordance with §
110.11 of this chapter.
   (B)   All provisions of this chapter regarding record keeping and reporting
apply to the facility and its contents.
   (C)   Property shall be stored in compliance with all provisions of the city
code. The licensee must either own the building in which the business is
conducted, and any approved off-site storage facility, or have a lease on the
business premises that extends for more than six months.
(Ord. 508, passed 5-9-2006)
CHAPTER 111: LIQUOR REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
111.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
111.03   Definitions
   
111.04   Nudity on the premises of licensed establishments prohibited
   
111.05   Consumption in public places
Licensing
   
111.20   Number of licenses which my be issued
   
111.21   Term and expiration of licenses
   
111.22   Kinds of liquor licenses
   
111.23   License fees; pro rata
   
111.24   Council discretion to grant or deny a license
   
111.25   Application for license
   
111.26   Description of premises
   
111.27   Applications for renewal
   
111.28   Transfer of license
   
111.29   Application and investigation fees
   
111.30   Hearing and issuance
   
111.31   Restrictions on issuance
   
111.32   Reserved
   
111.33   Conditions of license
   
111.34   Hours and days of sale
   
111.35   Minors on premises
   
111.36   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
111.37   Suspension and revocation
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as they may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale, and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor are hereby adopted by reference and
are made a part of this chapter as if set out in full. It is the intention of
the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Ch. 340A are hereby adopted
by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
chapter is adopted.
§ 111.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended
from time to time.
§ 111.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter:
   LIQUOR. As used in this chapter, without modification by the words
“intoxicating” or “3.2% malt,” includes both intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt
liquor.
   RESTAURANT. An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises, where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a
customer orders food from printed menus and where the main food course is
served and consumed while seated at a single location. To be a RESTAURANT as
defined by this section, an establishment shall have a license from the state
as required by M.S. § 157.16, as it may be amended from time to time, and meet
the definition of either a “small establishment,” “medium establishment” or
“large establishment” as defined in M.S. § 157.16, Subd. 3(d), as it may be
amended from time to time. An establishment which serves prepackaged food that
receives heat treatment and is served in the package or frozen pizza that is
heated and served, shall not be considered to be a restaurant for purposes of
this chapter unless it meets the definitions of “small establishment”, “medium
establishment” or “large establishment.”
§ 111.04 NUDITY ON THE PREMISES OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this chapter. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators, and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the
public in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and
combination of alcohol, nudity, and sex. The Council especially intends to
prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to
lead to the possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution,
sexual assault, and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the
prohibition of nudity on the premises of any establishment licensed under this
chapter, as set forth in this section, reflects the prevailing community
standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a non-transparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a
non-transparent material.
   (C)   A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by
law, and is justification for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine, or
3.2% malt liquor license or the imposition of a civil penalty under the
provisions of §
111.99(B).
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
    It is unlawful for any person to consume, or possess in an unsealed
container, any alcoholic beverages on any (1) street, (2) private parking lot,
to which the public has access, without a current lawful liquor license or
permit, or (3) public property other than the city parks and on such premises
when and where permission has not been specifically permitted or licensed by
the Council, or as otherwise provided for in this section. Provided, that this
section shall not apply to the possession of an unsealed container in a motor
vehicle when the container is kept in the trunk of such vehicle if it is
equipped with a trunk, or kept in some other area of the vehicle not normally
occupied by the driver or passengers, if the motor vehicle is not equipped with
a trunk. For the purpose of this section, a utility or glove compartment shall
be deemed to be within the area occupied by the driver or passengers. Provided,
further, that this section shall not apply to a bus operated under a charter,
or to a limousine, both as defined by statute.
(Ord. 501.16, 3rd Series, passed 4-13-2004; Ord. 24-08, passed 12-10-2024)
LICENSING
§ 111.20 NUMBER OF LICENSES WHICH MAY BE ISSUED.
   Minnesota state law establishes the number of liquor licenses that a city
may issue, under the provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from
time to time. The number of liquor licenses which may be granted under this
chapter is limited to three on-sale liquor licenses and four off-sale liquor
licenses. The Council is not required to issue the full number of liquor
licenses the city has available. If a larger number of liquor licenses is
allowed by Minnesota statute, a referendum may be held under the provisions of
M.S. § 340A.413, Subd. 3.
§ 111.21 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on December 31 of each year unless
another date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same
date. Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. Consumption and
display permits issued by the Commissioner of Public Safety, and the
accompanying city consent to the permit, shall expire on March 31 of each year.
§ 111.22 KINDS OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The Council of a city that does not have a municipal liquor store is
authorized to issue the following licenses and permits, up to the number
specified in §
111.20.
   (A)   3.2% malt liquor on-sale licenses, which may be issued only to golf
courses, restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers, and establishments used
exclusively for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor with the incidental sale of
tobacco and soft drinks.
   (B)   3.2% malt liquor off-sale license.
   (C)   Temporary 3.2% malt liquor licenses which may be issued only to a
club, charitable, religious, or nonprofit organization.
   (D)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued only to
exclusive liquor stores or drug stores that have an off-sale license which was
first issued on or before May 1, 1994. The fee for an off- sale intoxicating
liquor license established by the Council under §
111.23 shall be as set forth in the Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in the city
offices.
   (E)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued to the
following establishments as defined by M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and this chapter: hotels, restaurants, bowling centers,
theaters, clubs or congressionally chartered veterans organizations, and
exclusive liquor stores. Club licenses may be issued only with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety. The fee for club licenses established by the
Council under §
111.23 shall as set forth in the Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in the city
offices. The Council may in its sound discretion authorize a retail on-sale
licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at a
community festival held within the city under the provisions of M.S. §
340A.404, Subd. 4(b), as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may
in its sound discretion authorize a retail on-sale licensee to dispense
intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at any convention, banquet,
conference, meeting, or social affair conducted on the premises of a sports,
convention, or cultural facility owned by the city, under the provisions of
M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4(a), as it may be amended from time to time; however,
the licensee is prohibited from dispensing intoxicating liquor to any person
attending or participating in an amateur athletic event being held on the
premises.
   (F)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, only after authorization
to do so by voter approval at a general or special election as provided by M.S.
§ 340A.504, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time. Sunday on-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only to a restaurant as defined in §
111.03, club, bowling center, or hotel which has a seating capacity of at least
30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license, and which
serves liquor only in conjunction with the service of food. The maximum fee for
this license, which shall be established by the Council under the provisions of
§
111.23, shall be as set forth in the Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in the city
offices.
   (G)   Combination of on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses of the
city has a population less than 10,000.
   (H)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety, which may be issued only in connection with
a social event sponsored by a club, charitable, religious, or other nonprofit
corporation that has existed for at least three years. No license shall be for
longer than four consecutive days, and the city shall issue no more than 12
days worth of temporary licenses to any one organization in one calendar year.
Any fees for a license under this division are as set forth in the Fee Schedule
Ordinance on file in the city offices.
   (I)   On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Safety to: theaters, restaurants that have facilities for seating at least 25
guests at one time and meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 5, as it may
be amended from time to time, and which meet the definition of restaurant in §
111.03; and to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet the criteria in
M.S. § 340A.4011, Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time and to
theaters that meet the criteria in M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 1(b). The fee for an
on-sale wine license established by the Council under the provisions of §
111.23 shall be as set forth in the Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in the city
offices. The holder of an on-sale wine license who also holds an on-sale 3.2%
malt liquor license is authorized to sell malt liquor with a content over 3.2%
(strong beer) without an additional license. Any fees for a license under this
division are as set forth in the Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in the city
offices.
   (J)   One day consumption and display permits with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety to a nonprofit organization in conjunction with a
social activity in the city sponsored by the organization.
   (K)   Approval of the issuance of a consumption and display permit by the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The maximum amount of the additional fee which
may be imposed by the Council on a person who has been issued a consumption and
display permit under the provisions of §
111.23 shall be as set forth in the Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in the city
offices. Consumption and display permits shall expire on March 31 of each year.
   (L)   Culinary class limited on-sale licenses may be issued to a business
establishment not otherwise eligible for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license
that, as part of its business, conducts culinary or cooking classes for which
payment is made by each participant or advance reservation required. The
license authorizes the licensee to furnish to each participant in each class,
at no additional cost to the participant, up to a maximum of six ounces of wine
or 12 ounces of intoxicating malt liquor, during and as part of the class, for
consumption on the licensed premises only.
   (M)   Temporary off-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued for the off-sale of wine at an
auction. A license issued under this division authorizes the sale of only
vintage wine of a brand and vintage that is not commonly being offered for sale
by any wholesaler in Minnesota. The license may authorize the off-sale of wine
for not more than three consecutive days provided not more than 600 cases of
wine are sold at any auction. The licenses are subject to the terms, including
license fee, imposed by §
111.23. Any fees for a license under this division are as set forth in the Fee
Schedule Ordinance on file in the city offices.
   (N)   Brew pub on-sale intoxicating liquor or on-sale 3.2% malt liquor
licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued
to brewers who operate a restaurant in their place of manufacture and who meet
the criteria established at M.S. § 340A.301, Subd. 6(d) and 7(b), as it may be
amended from time to time. Sales under this license at on-sale may not exceed
3,500 barrels per year. If a brew pub licensed under this section possesses a
license for off-sale under division (O) below, the brew pub's total combined
retail sales at on-sale or off-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels per year,
provided that off-sales may not total more than 500 barrels. Any fees for a
license under this division are as set forth in the Fee Schedule Ordinance on
file in the city offices.
   (O)   Brewer off-sale intoxicating liquor license, with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued to a brewer that is a licensee
under division (N) above or that produces fewer than 3,500 barrels of malt
liquor in a year and otherwise meets the criteria established as M.S. §
340A.301, Subd. 6(d) and 7(b), as it may be amended from time to time. Off-sale
of malt liquor shall be limited to the legal hours for off-sale at exclusive
liquor stores in the city. Malt liquor sold off-sale must be removed from the
premises before the applicable off-sale closing time at exclusive liquor
stores. All malt liquor sold under this license shall be packaged in the manner
required by M.S. § 340A.301, Subd. 7 as it may be amended from time to time.
Sales under this license may not exceed 500 barrels per year. If a brewer
licensed under this section possesses a license under division (N) above, the
brewer's total retail sales at on-sale or off-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels
per year, provided that off-sales may not total more than 500 barrels. Any fees
for a license under this division are as set forth in the Fee Schedule
Ordinance on file in the city offices.
   (P)   Brewer temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued,
with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety, to brewers who
manufacture fewer than 3,500 barrels of malt liquor in a year for the on-sale
of intoxicating liquor in connection with a social event within the
municipality sponsored by the brewer.
   (Q)   Brewer taproom license, may be issued to the holder of a brewer's
license under M.S. § 340A.301, Subd. 6(c), (i) or (j) as it may amended from
time to time. A brewer's taproom license authorizes on-sale of malt liquor
produced by the brewer for consumption on the premises of or adjacent to one
brewery location owned by the brewer. A brewer may have only one taproom
license and may not have an ownership interest in a brewer licensed under M.S.
§ 340A.301, Subd. 6(d) as it may be amended from time to time. A brewer taproom
license may not be issued to a brewer that brews more than 250,000 barrels of
malt liquor annually or a winery that produces more than 250,000 gallons of
wine annually. Within ten days of issuing a brewer taproom license the City
Clerk/Treasurer will inform the Commissioner of Public Safety of the licensee's
name, address, trade name and the effective date and expiration date of the
license. The City Clerk/Treasurer will inform the Commissioner of Public Safety
of a license transfer, cancellation, suspension, or revocation during the
license period. Any fees for a license under this division are as set forth in
the Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in the city offices.
   (R)   A cocktail room license may be issued to the holder of a
microdistillery license under M.S. § 340A.301 subd. 6(c). A microdistillery
cocktail room license authorizes on-sale of distilled liquor produced by the
distiller for consumption on the premises of or adjacent to one distillery
location owned by the distiller. The holder of a microdistillery cocktail room
license may also hold a license to operate a restaurant at the distillery. No
more than one cocktail room license may be issued to any distiller and a
microdistillery cocktail room license may not be issued to any person having an
ownership interest in a distillery licensed under M.S. § 340A.301 subd. 6 (a).
No single entity may hold both a microdistillery cocktail room and taproom
license and a microdistillery cocktail room and taproom license may not be co-
located. Within ten days of the issuance of a microdistillery cocktail room
license, the city shall inform the commissioner of public safety of the
licensee's name and address and trade name, and the effective date and
expiration date of the license. The city shall also inform the commissioner of
public safety of a microdistillery cocktail room license transfer,
cancellation, suspension, or revocation during the license period.
§ 111.23 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for a
liquor license.
   (B)   The Council may establish from time to time in the Fee Schedule
Ordinance on file in the city offices the fee for any of the liquor licenses it
is authorized to issue. The license fee may not exceed the cost of issuing the
license and other costs directly related to the enforcement of the liquor laws
and this chapter. No liquor license fee shall be increased without providing
mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed increase to all affected licensees
at least 30 days before the hearing.
   (C)   The fee for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a quarterly basis.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (E)   A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only
if authorized by M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (F)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licensees may request a reduction in
their annual license fee by the amount specified in M.S. § 340A.408, as it may
be amended from time to time, if at the time of initial application or renewal
they:
      (1)   Agree to have a private vendor approved by the city train all
employees within 60 days of hire and annually thereafter in laws pertaining to
the sale of alcohol, the rules for identification checks, and the
responsibilities of establishments serving intoxicating liquors;
      (2)   Post a policy requiring identification checks for all persons
appearing to be 30 years old or less;
      (3)   Establish a written cash award and incentive program to award
employees who catch underage drinkers and a written penalty program to punish
employees in the event of a failed compliance check;
      (4)   Failure to abide by the provisions of this division may result in
suspension of the license until the conditions of the fee reduction are met and
may result in suspension and/or revocation of the license pursuant to §
111.36 of this chapter.
§ 111.24 COUNCIL DISCRETION TO GRANT OR DENY A LICENSE.
   The Council in its sound discretion may either grant or deny the application
for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license. No applicant has
a right to a license under this chapter.
§ 111.25 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall
be on a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name of
the applicant, the applicant's age, representations as to the applicant's
character, with references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in that
business at that place, and other information as the Council may require from
time to time. An application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall
be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall also
contain the information required in this section. The form shall be verified
and filed with the city. No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of any license under
this chapter, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility
as defined in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, with
regard to liability under M.S. § 340A.801, as it may be amended from time to
time. This proof will be filed with the city and the Commissioner of Public
Safety. Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of financial
responsibility under this section shall conform to M.S. § 340A.409, as it may
be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which is required to be
licensed by this chapter without having on file with the city at all times
effective proof of financial responsibility is a cause for revocation of the
license.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.26 DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed.
§ 111.27 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   At least 90 days before a license issued under this chapter is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the
Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
§ 111.28 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred without the approval
of the Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed to be a
transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior Council approval
is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to transfer a license
shall be treated the same as an application for a new license, and all of the
provisions of this code applying to applications for a license shall apply.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.29 APPLICATION AND INVESTIGATION FEES.
   At the time the initial application is made, an applicant for a license
under this chapter shall accompany such application with payment of a fee to be
considered an application and background investigation fee as set forth in the
Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in the city offices, not refundable to the
applicant, to cover the cost of the city in processing the application and the
investigation of the applicant. No such fee shall be required of an applicant
for a temporary 3.2% malt liquor license.
(Ord. 501, 3rd Series, passed 7-8-2003)
§ 111.30 HEARING AND ISSUANCE.
   The Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application and not
investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive background and financial
investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the
Council shall in its sound discretion grant or deny the application. No license
shall become effective until the proof of financial security has been approved
by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
§ 111.31 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
   (B)   Not more than one of the same license shall be directly or indirectly
issued to any one person
   (C)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges, or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (D)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.32 RESERVED.
§ 111.33 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The failure of a licensee to meet any condition of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (B)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and the law equally
with the employee.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.34 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. §
340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time, except that the City Council
may, by resolution or ordinance, provide for more restrictive hours than state
law allows.
   (B)   No person shall consume nor shall any on-sale licensee permit any
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in an on-sale licensed
premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle, or other container
containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor to remain upon any table,
bar, stool, or other place where customers are served, more than 30 minutes
after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.35 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   It is unlawful for a person under 21 to enter a licensed establishment with
the intent to purchase, to be served or delivered any alcohol beverages.
However, no city ordinance may prohibit a person 18,19 or 20 years of age from
entering an establishment to:
   (A)   Perform work for the establishment, including the serving of alcoholic
beverages;
   (B)   Consume meals; and
   (C)   Attend social functions that are held in a portion of the
establishment where liquor is not sold.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.36 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless it has a license to sell on-sale, or a permit from the
Commissioner of Public Safety under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.414, as it
may be amended from time to time, which has been approved by the Council, and
no person shall consume liquor in any such place.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.37 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation, or provision of this chapter relating
to liquor. Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial responsibility, no
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act,
M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may
act as the hearing body under that act, or it may contract with the Office of
Hearing Examiners for a hearing officer.
   (B)   The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the Council for violations of the provisions of this
chapter or M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time or any rules
promulgated under that chapter as they may be amended from time to time:
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2% malt liquor, or
violation of §
111.04, the license shall be revoked.
      (2)   The license shall be suspended by the Council after a finding under
division (A) that the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable
statute, rule, or provision of this chapter for at least the minimum periods as
follows:
         (a)   For the first violation within any three-year period, at least
one day suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
         (b)   For a second violation within any three-year period, at least
three consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (c)   For the third violation within any three-year period, at least
seven consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (d)   For a fourth violation within any three-year period, the license
shall be revoked.
      (3)   The Council shall select the day or days during which the license
will be suspended.
   (C)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has
received notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation
of a license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the Clerk/Treasurer, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within
ten days. Any suspension under this division (C) shall continue until the
Council determines that the financial responsibility requirements of state law
and this chapter have again been met.
   (D)   The provisions of §
111.99 pertaining to administrative penalty may be imposed in addition to or in
lieu of any suspension or revocation under this chapter.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or M.S. Ch. 340A,
as it may be amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that
chapter as they may be amended from time to time is guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction shall be punished as provided by law.
   (B)   The Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and of this
chapter. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required in order
for the Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the Administrative
Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended from time to time,
is not required before the penalty is imposed, but the Council shall hold a
hearing on the proposed violation and the proposed penalty and hear any person
who wishes to speak. Non-payment of the penalty is grounds for suspension or
revocation of the license. The following is the minimum schedule of presumptive
civil penalties which must be imposed in addition to any suspension unless the
licenses is revoked:
      (1)   For the first violation within any three-year period, $500.
      (2)   For the second violation within any three-year period, $1,000.
      (3)   For the third and subsequent violations within any three-year
period, $2,000.
   (C)   The term VIOLATION as used in this section includes any and all
violations of the provisions of this chapter, or of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that chapter as they
may be amended from time to time. The number of violations shall be determined
on the basis of the history of violations for the preceding three-year period.
Revocation shall occur within 60 days following a violation for which
revocation is imposed.
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   GAMBLING
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Discharge of firearms
   
130.02   Curfew
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by law, a person may not discharge a firearm
within 500 feet of a building occupied by a human or livestock without the
written permission of the owner, occupant, or lessee:
      (1)   On another person's private land, if the land is not a licensed
shooting preserve; or
      (2)   On a public road right-of-way.
   (B)   No person may discharge a firearm within 500 feet of a stockade or
corral confining livestock for the purpose of normal livestock holding or
sorting operations without the permission of the owner, occupant, or lessee.
This division does not apply to persons hunting during an established hunting
season on state-owned or local government-owned land that is not a road right-
of-way. For the purposes of this division, a STOCKADE or CORRAL means a fenced
enclosure for confining livestock that does not enclose an area greater than
one acre.
   (C)   A person may not take a wild animal on any land where the person is
prohibited from entering by this section.
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see M.S. § 97B.001, Subd. 7, as it may be amended from time to
time
§ 130.02 CURFEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   CURFEW HOURS.
         (a)   11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday until 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and
         (b)   12:01 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Friday or Saturday.
      (2)   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the
resulting state that calls for immediate action. The term includes but is not
limited to a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      (3)   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including but not limited to any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      (4)   GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      (5)   MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age.
      (6)   OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or
corporation operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term
includes the members or partners of an association or partnership and the
officers of a corporation.
      (7)   PARENT. A person who is:
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of another
person; or
         (b)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
      (8)   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group
of the public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets,
highways, and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office
buildings, transport facilities, and shops.
      (9)   REMAIN.
         (a)   Linger or stay; or
         (b)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
      (10)   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial
risk of death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or
protracted loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   (B)   Offenses.
      (1)   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he knowingly
permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in any public
place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew
hours.
      (3)   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he or she knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of
the establishment during curfew hours.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   It is a exemption to division (B) that the minor was:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         (i)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B)(3) that the
owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the Police
Department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment during
curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (D)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a police officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in
the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, including any
investigation additional to the actions required by this division (D) as a
reasonable person would deem necessary, no exemption in division (C) is
present.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 131: GAMBLING
Section
   
131.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
131.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
131.03   Purpose
   
131.04   Definitions
   
131.05   Applicability
   
131.06   Lawful gambling permitted
   
131.07   Council approval
   
131.08   Application and local approval of premises permits
   
131.09   Local permits
   
131.10   Revocation and suspension of local permit
   
131.11   License and permit display
   
131.12   Notification of material changes to application
   
131.13   Records and reporting
   
131.14   Hours of operation
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 349, as they may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation, provisions
relating to sales, and all other matters pertaining to lawful gambling are
hereby adopted by reference and are made a part of this chapter as if set out
in full. It is the intention of the Council that all future amendments of M.S.
Ch. 349 are hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if they had been in
existence at the time this chapter was adopted.
(Ord. 502, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 131.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 349.213, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on gambling within its limits beyond those contained in
M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 502, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 131.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate lawful gambling within the city,
to prevent its commercialization, to ensure the integrity of operations, and to
provide for the use of net profits only for lawful purposes.
(Ord. 502, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 131.04 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 349.12, as it may be
amended from time to time, for purposes of this chapter the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   BOARD. The State of Minnesota Gambling Control Board.
   CITY. The City of Emily.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Emily.
   LICENSED ORGANIZATION. An organization licensed by the Board.
   LOCAL PERMIT. A permit issued by the city.
(Ord. 502, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 131.05 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall be construed to regulate all forms of lawful gambling
within the city except bingo conducted within a nursing home or a senior
citizen housing project or by a senior citizen organization if the prizes for a
single bingo game do not exceed $10, total prizes awarded at a single bingo
occasion do not exceed $200, only members of the organization, residents of the
nursing home or housing project, and their guests are allowed to play in a
bingo game, no compensation is paid for any persons who conduct the bingo, and
a manager is appointed to supervise the bingo.
(Ord. 502, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 131.06 LAWFUL GAMBLING PERMITTED.
   Lawful gambling is permitted within the city provided it is conducted in
accordance with M.S. §§ 609.75-609.763, inclusive, as may be amended from time
to time, M.S. §§ 349.11-349.23, inclusive, as may be amended from time to time,
and this chapter.
(Ord. 502, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 131.07 COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   Lawful gambling authorized by M.S. §§ 349.11-349.23, inclusive, as may be
amended from time to time, shall not be conducted unless approved by the
Council, subject to the provisions of this chapter and state law.
(Ord. 502, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 131.08 APPLICATION AND LOCAL APPROVAL OF PREMISES PERMITS.
   (A)   Any organization seeking to obtain a premises permit from the Board
shall file with the City Clerk an executed, complete duplicate application,
together with all exhibits and documents accompanying the application as will
be filed with the Board.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for issuance of a premises permit, the
City Clerk shall transmit the application to the Chief of Police for review and
recommendation.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall investigate the matter and make the review
and recommendation to the City Council as soon as possible, but in no event
later than 45 days following receipt of the notification by the city.
   (D)   Organizations applying for a state-issued premises permit shall pay
the city an investigation fee as set forth in the Fee Schedule Ordinance on
file in the city officees. This fee shall be refunded if the application is
withdrawn before the investigation is commenced. If approved by the City
Council and the Board, a licensed organization will be responsible for an
annual investigative fee for conducting lawful gambling within the city.
   (E)   The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date on which the
Council will consider the recommendation.
   (F)   The Council shall receive the Chief of Police's report and consider
the application within 45 days of the date the application was submitted to the
City Clerk.
   (G)   The Council shall by resolution approve or disapprove the application
within 60 days of receipt of the application.
   (H)   The Council shall deny an application for issuance or renewal of a
premises permit for any of the following reasons. Otherwise, the Council shall
pass a resolution approving the application.
      (1)   Violation by the gambling organization of any state statute, state
rule, or city ordinance relating to gambling within the last three years;
      (2)   Violation by the on-sale establishment or organization leasing its
premises for gambling of any state statute, state rule, or city ordinance
relating to the operation of the establishment, including, but not limited to,
laws relating to alcoholic beverages, gambling, controlled substances,
suppression of vice and protection of public safety within the last three
years;
      (3)   Lawful gambling would be conducted at premises other than those for
which an on-sale liquor license has been issued;
      (4)   An organization would be permitted to conduct lawful gambling
activities at more than one premises in the city;
      (5)   More than one licensed organization would be permitted to conduct
lawful gambling activities at one premises;
      (6)   Failure of the applicant to pay the investigation fee provided by
division (D) above within the prescribed time limit;
      (7)   Operation of gambling at the site would be detrimental to health,
safety, and welfare of the community.
(Ord. 502, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 131.09 LOCAL PERMITS.
   (A)   No organization shall conduct lawful gambling excluded or exempted
from state licensure requirements by M.S. § 349.166, as it may be amended from
time to time, without a valid local permit. This section shall not apply to
lawful gambling exempted from local regulation by §
131.05.
   (B)   Applications for issuance or renewal of a local permit shall be on a
form prescribed by the city. The application shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name and address of the organization requesting the permit;
      (2)   Name and address of the officers and person accounting for
receipts, expenses, and profits for the event;
      (3)   Dates of gambling occasion for which permit is requested;
      (4)   Address of premises where event will occur;
      (5)   Copy of rental or leasing arrangement, if any, connected with the
event, including rent to be charged to the organization;
      (6)   Estimated value of prizes to be awarded.
   (C)   The fee for a local permit shall be set by the Fee Schedule Ordinance
on file in the city offices. The fee shall be submitted with the application
for a local permit. This fee shall be refunded if the application is withdrawn
before the investigation is commenced.
   (D)   Upon receipt of an application for issuance or renewal of a local
permit, the City Clerk shall transmit the notification to the Chief of Police
for review and recommendation.
   (E)   The Chief of Police shall investigate the matter and make review and
recommendation to the City Council as soon as possible, but in no event later
than 45 days following receipt of the notification by the city.
   (F)   The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date on which the
Council will consider the recommendation.
   (G)   The Council shall receive the public safety department's report and
consider the application within 45 days of the date the application was
submitted to the City Clerk.
   (H)   Any and all gambling functions must comply with state regulations.
   (I)   Local permits shall be valid for one year after the date of issuance
unless suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 502, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 131.10 REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF LOCAL PERMIT.
   (A)   A local permit may be revoked or temporarily suspended for a violation
by the gambling organization of any state statute, state rule, or city
ordinance relating to gambling.
   (B)   A license shall not be revoked or suspended until written notice and
an opportunity for a hearing have first been given to the permitted person. The
notice shall be personally served or sent by certified or registered mail. If
the person refuses to accept notice, notice of the violation shall be served by
posting it on the premises. Notice shall state the provision reasonably
believed to be violated and shall also state that the permitted person may
demand a hearing on the matter, in which case the permit will not be suspended
until after the hearing is held. If the permitted person requests a hearing,
the Council shall hold a hearing on the matter at least one week after the date
on which the request is made. If, as a result of the hearing, the Council finds
that an ordinance violation exists, then the Council may suspend or revoke the
permit.
(Ord. 502, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 131.11 LICENSE AND PERMIT DISPLAY.
   All permits issued under state law or this chapter shall be prominently
displayed during the permit year at the premises where gambling is conducted.
(Ord. 502, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 131.12 NOTIFICATION OF MATERIAL CHANGES TO APPLICATION.
   An organization holding a state-issued premises permit or a local permit
shall notify the city within ten days in writing whenever any material change
is made in the information submitted on the application.
(Ord. 502, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 131.13 RECORDS AND REPORTING.
   Organizations conducting lawful gambling shall file with the City Clerk one
copy of all records and reports required to be filed with the Board, pursuant
to M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to time, and rules adopted
pursuant thereto, as they may be amended from time to time. The records and
reports shall be filed on or before the day they are required to be filed with
the Board.
(Ord. 502, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 131.14 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Lawful gambling shall not be conducted between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on
any day of the week.
(Ord. 502, passed 9-4-1984)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, M.S. §§ 609.75-
609.763, inclusive, as they may be amended from time to time or M.S. §§ 349.11-
349.21, as they may be amended from time to time; or any rules promulgated
under those sections, as they may be amended from time to time, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment
for a term not to exceed 90 days, or both, plus in either case the costs of
prosecution. In addition, violations shall be reported to the Board and
recommendation shall be made for suspension, revocation, or cancellation of an
organization's license.
(Ord. 502, passed 9-4-1984)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   RENTAL PROPERTIES
      
151.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
      
152.   LAND USE AND SUBDIVISIONS
      
153.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
154.   CANNABIS BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 150: RENTAL PROPERTIES
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Purpose and intent
   
150.02   Definitions
   
150.03   Application
Administration and Registration
   
150.15   Enforcement
   
150.16   Compliance
   
150.17   Registration
   
150.18   License fee
   
150.19   Notice of change
   
150.20   Posting of registration
   
150.21   Transfer
   
150.22   Inspection authority
   
150.23   Access
   
150.24   Failure to register
   
150.25   Implementation policy
   
150.26   Conduct
Notices and Assessments
   
150.40   Notice to owner or person responsible
   
150.41   Form of notice
   
150.42   Method of service
   
150.43   Transfer of ownership
   
150.44   Assessments
   
150.45   Fines
   
150.46   Appeals
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   Any fees imposed under this chapter are as set forth on the ordinance
adopting a schedule of fines and fees on file in the city offices.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to establish minimum
standards and procedures for enforcement, consistent with the right to personal
privacy for the protection of life, limb, health, property, safety and welfare
of the general public and the owners and occupants of residential rental
property. It is the policy of the city to enhance the supply of safe, sanitary
and adequate housing for its citizens and to prevent the deterioration of
existing housing in the city.
   (B)   The objective of this chapter, include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   The protection and preservation of the stability and character of
residential and commercial areas within the city;
      (2)   The prevention and correction of housing conditions that adversely
affect the life, safety, health and general well-being of persons occupying
dwellings in the city;
      (3)   The establishment of minimum standards to ensure the health and
safety of occupants of dwellings;
      (4)   The establishment of minimum standards for the maintenance of
residential dwellings;
      (5)   The prevention of the emergence of blighted and deteriorating
housing in the city;
      (6)   The prevention of overcrowding of rental dwellings; and
      (7)   The preservation of the value of land and buildings in the city.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
§ 150.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUILDING CODE. Those provisions found in the Minnesota State Building
Code, as amended.
      CITY CODE. The Emily City Code of Ordinances.
      COMMON AREAS. Halls, corridors, passageways, utility rooms, recreational
rooms and extensive landscaped areas, not under the exclusive control of one
person or family, in or adjacent to a multiple dwelling.
      COMPLAINT DRIVEN INSPECTION. An inspection initiated by a complaint filed
by an owner, tenant, neighbor, concerned individual or the city.
      DESIGNATED REPRESENTATIVE. A person or company who has the power to act
in the owner’s behalf in the owner’s absence. A DESIGNATED REPRESENTATIVE will
be available to accept legal notice, order emergency repairs and grant access
for complaint driven inspections or emergency inspections.
      DWELLING. A building or a portion of a building designed for residential
occupancy. The term includes single-family, two-family and multiple-family
dwellings, but does not include hotels, motels and boarding houses.
Manufactured homes (mobile homes) used as rental dwellings are considered a
single-family unit.
      DWELLING UNIT.
         (a)   A single-family dwelling; or
         (b)   A discrete portion of a dwelling designed for occupancy by one
family.
      HABITABLE SPACE. The space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking. Bathrooms, toilet compartments, closets, halls, storage or utility
spaces, and similar areas are not considered habitable.
      HOUSING OFFICIAL. City officer or officers designated by the City Council
to administer this chapter.
      OPENABLE AREA. The part of a window or door which is available for
unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
      OWNER, OWNER-OPERATOR or OPERATOR. Any person, firm or corporation who
alone or jointly or severally with others is in actual possession of or have
charge, care or control of a dwelling or dwelling unit in the city as owner,
employee or agent of the owner or as trustee or guardian of the estate or the
person of the title holder, and such person is bound by the provisions of this
code to the same extent as the owner.
      PERSON. Individual, corporation or partnership.
      REPAIR. To restore to a sound acceptable state of operation,
serviceability or appearance, in a workmanlike manner.
      REPLACE. To remove an existing item or portion of a system and to
construct or install a new item of similar or new quality as an existing item
when new repair of the item is impractical.
      UNLAWFUL STRUCTURE. One found in whole or in part to be occupied contrary
to law.
      ZONING CODE. Those provisions found in
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances, as amended.
   (B)   Whenever the words “dwelling unit”, “dwelling”, “premises”,
“building”, “rooming house”, “rooming unit”, “story” or “structure” are stated
in this chapter, they shall be construed as though they were followed by the
words “or any part thereof”.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
§ 150.03 APPLICATION.
   (A)   General. This chapter applies to buildings, their premises, accessory
structures thereto and dwelling units therein, used or designed to be used for
any occupancy.
   (B)   Existing buildings.
      (1)   A building lawfully existing under
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances must conform to this chapter.
      (2)   A building need not be altered to exceed the requirements of
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances in effect at the time of its construction,
except in the following cases:
         (a)   If a portion of the building is altered, that portion must be
built pursuant to
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances in effect at the time of alteration;
         (b)   If the building is moved or relocated; or
         (c)   If the building is determined to be unsafe or hazardous by the
Building Housing Official or other designated official pursuant to
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances or state law; or that portion deemed unsafe
must be built to current codes. Occupancy in buildings, lawfully existing under
the Building Code may be continued under this chapter.
   (C)   Utilities. Except as otherwise provided by law, an owner, operator or
occupant may not cause service equipment or utility service that is required by
this chapter to be removed, shut off or discontinued for any occupied dwelling
let or occupied by that person, except for such temporary interruption as may
be necessary while actual repairs alterations are in process or during
temporary emergencies.
   (D)   Transfer of responsibility. A contract between owner and operator,
operator and occupant, or owner and occupant, with regard to compliance with
this chapter, does not relieve the owner or operator of a duty imposed by this
chapter.
   (E)   Notice of maximum occupancy. An owner or operator must advise the
occupant, in writing, by inserting in the lease between the parties or
otherwise, of the maximum number of occupants/family members permitted in each
occupied unit which is pursuant to
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
ADMINISTRATION AND REGISTRATION
§ 150.15 ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Council is ultimately responsible for the administration and
enforcement of this chapter and the supervision of the Housing Official.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
§ 150.16 COMPLIANCE.
   When the Housing Official determines that there exists in a building, its
premises or a portion thereof, conditions that constitute a violation of this
chapter, the Housing Official may begin enforcement procedures.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
§ 150.17 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall occupy, allow to be occupied or let to another
for occupancy any rental property in the city without first having obtained a
rental dwelling license for such rental property from the city. Applications
for registration must be made by the owner of a rental dwelling. The
application forms are to be filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer. The payment of
fees set forth in the Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in the city offices shall
be a prerequisite to this required licensing. All rentals using a septic system
will be required to pass a compliance inspection, according to Minn. Rules Part
7080, with appropriate sizing requirements, or bring up to code prior to
registration. The City Clerk/ Treasurer’s office will prepare and maintain all
files.
      (2)   Exception. Occupant(s) shall not be construed as to include
temporary nonpaying guests of the owner.
   (B)   The application for license shall be made and filed on forms furnished
by the City Clerk/Treasurer for such purpose and shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   Name, residence address and phone number of the owner of the
dwelling or an agent authorized by the owner to accept service of process and
to receive and give receipt notices;
      (2)   Name, address and phone number of any agent actively managing said
rental property;
      (3)   Street address of the rental property;
      (4)   Number and kind of units within the rental property (dwelling units
or sleeping rooms);
      (5)   Name, phone number and address of the person authorized to make or
order repairs and/or service to the building, to provide required services
necessary to protect health, safety and welfare of the occupants or is able to
contact the person so authorized;
      (6)   Maximum number of people permitted per dwelling unit or sleeping
room; and
      (7)   Name and phone number of current tenant.
(Ord. passed - -2012; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.18 LICENSE FEE.
   A license fee shall be assessed on all rental units. The license fee shall
be an annual per unit fee and shall be included with the renewal statement.
Such fee shall be set forth in the Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in the city
offices.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
§ 150.19 NOTICE OF CHANGE.
   The registrant must give notice in writing to the City Clerk/Treasurer
within five business days after any change of the information in the
application.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
§ 150.20 POSTING OF REGISTRATION.
   A rental registration certificate shall be issued to each registered unit.
The owner of a rental dwelling containing three or more rental dwelling units
must conspicuously post the registration in the main entryway or other
conspicuous location in a frame with a suitable cover.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
§ 150.21 TRANSFER.
   The registrant must give notice in writing to the City Clerk/Treasurer
within five business days after having legally transferred or otherwise
disposed of the effective control of a registered rental dwelling. The notice
must include the name and address of the person succeeding to the ownership or
control of the rental dwelling or dwellings. For purposes of this section,
EFFECTIVE CONTROL means that control exercised over property by a business
proprietor, whether as owner or lessee or by an owner or lessee of other
property. Prior to relicensing, property must have an inspection by the Housing
Official or designated official.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
§ 150.22 INSPECTION AUTHORITY.
   (A)   General. The Housing Official administers and enforces the provisions
of this section. The Housing Official may inspect on a biannual basis or by
complaint. Inspections must be conducted during reasonable daylight hours. The
Housing Official must present evidence of official authority to the occupant in
charge of a registered rental dwelling. The Housing Official shall have the
authority to issue petty misdemeanors.
   (B)   Notices and orders. The Housing Official shall issue all necessary
notices or orders to enter the structure or premises at reasonable times to
inspect. Prior to entering into a space not otherwise open to the general
public, the Housing Official shall make a reasonable effort to locate the owner
or other person having charge or control of the structure or premises, present
proper identification and request entry. If requested entry is refused or not
obtained, the Housing Official shall pursue recourse as provided by law.
   (C)   Right of entry. Upon receipt of a written complaint, the Housing
Official is authorized to enter the structure or premises at reasonable times
to inspect prior to entering into a space not otherwise open to the general
public, the Housing Official shall make reasonable effort to locate the owner
or other person having charge or control of the structure or premises, present
proper identification and request entry. If requested entry is refused or not
obtained, the Housing Official shall pursue recourse as provided by law.
   (D)   Access by owner or operator. Every occupant of a structure or premises
shall give the owner or operator thereof, or agent or employee, access to any
part of such structure or its premises at reasonable times for the purpose of
making such inspection, maintenance, repairs or alterations as are necessary to
comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Identification. The Housing Official shall carry proper identification
when inspecting structure on premises in the performance of duties under this
chapter.
   (F)   Coordination of enforcement. Inspection of premises, the issuance of
notices and orders and enforcement thereof shall be the responsibility of the
Housing Official so charged by the jurisdiction. Whenever inspections are
necessary by any other department, the Housing Official shall make reasonable
effort to arrange for the coordination of such inspections so as to minimize
the number of visits by inspectors, and to confer with the other departments
for the purpose of eliminating conflicting orders before any are issued. A
department shall not, however, delay the issuance of any emergency orders.
   (G)   Rule making authority. The City Council shall have power as necessary,
in the interest of public health, safety and general welfare, to adopt and
promulgate rules and regulations to interpret and implement the provisions of
this chapter to secure the intent thereof and to designate requirements
applicable because of local climatic or other conditions. Such rules shall not
have the effect of waiving structural or fire performance requirements,
specifically provided for in this chapter of violating accepted engineering
practice involving public safety. Upon determination by the city that a
registered premises was used in a disorderly manner, the city shall give notice
to the registrant and occupant of the violation and direct the registrant and
occupant to take steps to prevent further violations.
   (H)   Organization. The City Council shall appoint such number of officers,
technical assistants, inspectors and other employees as shall be necessary for
the administration of this chapter and as authorized to designate an employee
as deputy who shall exercise all the powers of the Housing Official during the
temporary absence or disability of the Housing Official.
   (I)   Relief from personal responsibility. The Housing Official, officer or
employee charged with the enforcement of this chapter, while acting for the
jurisdiction, shall not thereby be rendered liable personally, and is hereby
relieved from all personal liability for any damage accruing to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of
official duties. Any suit instituted against an officer or employee because of
an act performed by that officer or employee in the lawful discharge of duties
and under the provisions of this chapter shall be defended by the legal
representative of the jurisdiction until the final termination of the
proceedings. The Housing Official or any subordinate shall not be liable for
costs in any action, suit or proceeding that is instituted in pursuance of the
provisions of this chapter; and any officer of the Department of Housing
Inspection, acting in good faith and without malice, shall be free from
liability for acts performed under any of its provisions or by reason of any
act or omission in the performance of official duties in connection therewith.
   (J)   Official records. An official record shall be kept by the city of all
business and activities of the department specified in the provisions of this
chapter, and all such records shall be open to public inspection at all
appropriate times and according to reasonable rules to maintain the integrity
and security of such records.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
§ 150.23 ACCESS.
   If an owner, occupant or other person in charge of a rental dwelling
registered under this section fails or refuses to permit free access and entry
for inspection purposes, the Housing Official may, upon showing of probable
cause, obtain orders from a court of competent jurisdiction for the inspection.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
§ 150.24 FAILURE TO REGISTER.
   Anyone failing to register a rental unit shall be in violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
§ 150.25 IMPLEMENTATION POLICY.
   (A)   The City Council may adopt by resolution policies and guidelines for
the implementation and administration of this chapter.
   (B)   These policies and guidelines must include, but are not limited to,
standards and guidelines relating to:
      (1)   Procedures for housing inspections;
      (2)   Proper disposition of information gathered in connection with
housing inspections;
      (3)   Conditional occupancy of housing during periods needed for
compliance; and
      (4)   Methods of encouraging the correction of deficiencies by
cooperation between owner and proposed and current occupants.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
§ 150.26 CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the occupants to conduct themselves
in such a manner as not to cause the premises to be disorderly. Upon
determination by the city that a registered premises was used in a disorderly
manner, the city shall give notice to the registrant and occupant of the
violation and direct the registrant and occupant to take steps to prevent
further violations.
   (B)   If another instance of substantiated disorderly use of registered
premises occurs within three months of an incident for which a notice was
given, the city shall notify the registrant and occupant of the violation,
issue a citation to the tenant as a second violation consistent with the
current resolution establishing fees for violations of this section, and shall
also require the registrant and occupant to submit a written report of the
actions taken, and proposed to be taken by the registrant and occupant to
prevent further disorderly use of the premises. This written report shall be
submitted to the city within five days of receipt of the notice of disorderly
use of the response to all notices of disorderly use of the premises within the
preceding three months.
   (C)   If another instance of substantiated disorderly use of the registered
premises occurs within three months after any two previous instances of
disorderly use for which notices were given to the registrant and occupant
pursuant to this section, the rental dwelling registrant must then initiate
eviction proceedings. In the event of an eviction, and upon inspection of the
dwelling, the tenant will be held responsible for any costs of repairs or
cleaning required to bring the facility back into compliance with this section
as a result of the actions of the tenant.
   (D)   No adverse action shall be imposed upon the registrant where the
instance of disorderly use of the registered premises occurred during the
pendency of eviction proceedings.
   (E)   A determination that the registered premises have been used in a
disorderly manner shall be made upon a fair preponderance of the evidence to
support such a determination. It shall not be necessary that criminal charges
be brought in order to support a determination of disorderly use, nor shall the
fact of dismissal or acquittal of such a criminal charge operate as a bar to
adverse license action under this section.
   (F)   Enforcement actions provided in this section shall not be exclusive,
and the City Council may take any action with respect to a licensee, a tenant
or the licensed premises as is authorized by the city code, state or federal
law.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
NOTICES AND ASSESSMENTS
§ 150.40 NOTICE TO OWNER OR PERSON RESPONSIBLE.
   Whenever the Housing Official determines that there has been a violation of
this chapter or has grounds to believe that a violation has occurred, notice
shall be given to the owner or the person or persons responsible therefor in
the manner prescribed herein.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
§ 150.41 FORM OF NOTICE.
   Such notice shall:
   (A)   Be in writing;
   (B)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
   (C)   Include a statement of the reason or reasons why the notice is being
issued; and
   (D)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time for the repairs
and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure into
compliance with the provisions of this code.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
§ 150.42 METHOD OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Such a notice shall be deemed to be properly served if a copy thereof
is:
      (1)   Delivered to the owner personally; or
      (2)   Sent by mail addressed to the owner at the last known address with
return receipt requested.
   (B)   If the letter is returned showing that the letter was not delivered or
was unable to be served by law enforcement, a copy thereof shall be posted in a
conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such notice. Service of
such notice in the foregoing manner upon the owner’s agent or upon the person
responsible for the structure shall constitute service of notice upon the
owner.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
§ 150.43 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling unit or structure who has
received a compliance order or upon whom a notice of violation has been served
to sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of to another until the
provisions of the compliance order or notice of violation have been complied
with, or until such owner shall first furnish the grantee, transferee or lessee
a true copy of any compliance order or notice of violation issued by the code
official and shall furnish to the code official a signed and notarized
statement from the grantee, transferee or lessee, acknowledging the receipt of
such compliance order or notice of violation and fully accepting the
responsibility without condition for making the corrections or repairs required
by such compliance order on notice of violation.
(Ord. passed - -2012) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.44 ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Upon a failure to comply with a compliance order within the time set
therein, and no appeal having been taken, or upon failure to comply with a
modified compliance order within the time set therein, the criminal penalty
established hereunder notwithstanding, the City Council, after due notice to
the owner, may by resolution cause the cited deficiency to be remedied as set
forth in the compliance order.
   (B)   The cost of such remedy is a lien against the subject real estate and
may be levied and collected as a special assessment in the manner provided by
M.S. Ch. 429, as it may be amended from time to time, for any of the reasons
set forth in M.S. § 429.101, Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time,
and specifically for the removal or elimination of public health or safety
hazards from private property. The assessment may be payable in a single
installment, or in multiple installments as determined by the City Council.
   (C)   It is the intent of this section to authorize the city to utilize all
of the provisions of M.S. Ch. 429, as it may be amended from time to time, to
promote the public’s health, safety and general welfare.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
§ 150.45 FINES.
   The city may fine the owner or occupant. All fines and fees are as set forth
in the Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in the city offices.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
§ 150.46 APPEALS.
   (A)   When it is alleged by a person to whom a compliance order is directed
that the compliance order is based upon erroneous interpretation of this
section or upon a misstatement or a mistake of fact, that person may appeal the
compliance order to the City Council. The City Council will hear the appeal
within 14 days after receipt or at the next regularly scheduled Council
meeting, whichever is later.
   (B)   The appeal:
      (1)   Must be in writing;
      (2)   Must specify the grounds of the appeal; and
      (3)   Must be filed with the Housing Official within five business days
after the service of the compliance order.
   (C)   The filing of an appeal stays proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless such a stay, in the judgment of the Housing Official,
would cause imminent peril to life, health or property. The City Council’s
disposition of the appeal is final.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   It shall be a petty misdemeanor to fail to comply with a lawfully issued
compliance order under this chapter or to erect, construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, move, improve, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or structure
within the city contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
CHAPTER 151: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Scope
   
151.03   Intent
   
151.04   Applicability
   
151.05   Maintenance
   
151.06   Application of other codes
   
151.07   Existing remedies
   
151.08   Workmanship
   
151.09   Historic buildings
   
151.10   Referenced codes and standards
   
151.11   Requirements not covered by code
   
151.12   Violations
   
151.13   Definitions
Department of Property Maintenance Inspection
   
151.25   Liability
   
151.26   Fees
   
151.27   Duties and powers generally
   
151.28   Rule-making authority
   
151.29   Inspections
   
151.30   Right of access
   
151.31   Identification
   
151.32   Notices and orders
   
151.33   Department records
   
151.34   Emergency conditions and regulations
Requirements and Regulations
   
151.45   Scope
   
151.46   Responsibility
   
151.47   Exterior property areas
   
151.48   Exterior structures
   
151.49   Rubbish and garbage
   
151.50   Infestations; extermination
   
151.51   Public nuisances
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known as the “Property Maintenance Code of the
City of Emily”, hereinafter referred to as “this Code” or “this chapter”.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 151.02 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to: all existing residential and
non-residential structures and all existing premises and constitute minimum
requirements and standards for premises, structures, sanitation, life safety,
safety from fire and other hazards, and for safe and sanitary maintenance; the
responsibility of owners, operators and occupants; the occupancy of existing
structures and premises, and for administration, enforcement and penalties.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 151.03 INTENT.
   This chapter shall be construed to secure its expressed intent, which is to
ensure public health, safety and welfare in so far as they are affected by the
continued occupancy and maintenance of structures and premises. Existing
structures and premises that do not comply with these provisions shall be
altered or repaired to provide a minimum level of health and safety, as
required herein.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 151.04 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all matters affecting or
relating to structures and premises, as set forth in §
151.02 of this chapter. Where, in a specific case, different sections of this
chapter specify different requirements, the most restrictive shall govern.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 151.05 MAINTENANCE.
   Equipment, systems, devices and safeguards required by this chapter or a
previous regulation or code under which the structure or premises was
constructed, altered or repaired shall be maintained in good working order. No
owner, operator or occupant shall cause any service, facility, equipment or
utility which is required under this section to be removed from or shut off
from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling, except for such temporary
interruption as necessary while repairs or alterations are in progress. The
requirements of this chapter are not intended to provide the basis for removal
or abrogation of fire protection and safety systems and devices in existing
structures. Except as otherwise specified herein, the owner or the owner’s
designated agent shall be responsible for the maintenance of buildings,
structures and premises.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 151.06 APPLICATION OF OTHER CODES.
   Repairs, additions or alterations to a structure, or changes of occupancy,
shall be done in accordance with the procedures and provisions of the state’s
Building Code and the state’s Fire Code. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to cancel, modify or set aside any provision of
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 151.07 EXISTING REMEDIES.
   The provisions in this chapter shall not be construed to abolish or impair
existing remedies of the jurisdiction or its officers or agencies relating to
the removal or demolition of any structure which is dangerous, unsafe and
insanitary.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 151.08 WORKMANSHIP.
   Repairs, maintenance work, alterations or installations which are caused
directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this chapter shall be executed and
installed in a workmanlike manner and installed in accordance with the
manufacturer’s installation instructions.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 151.09 HISTORIC BUILDINGS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be mandatory for existing buildings
or structures designated as historic buildings when such buildings or
structures are judged by the administrative authority to be safe and in the
public interest of health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 151.10 REFERENCED CODES AND STANDARDS.
   The codes and standards referenced in this chapter shall mean the applicable
provisions of the city’s code of ordinances, Ch. 152 of this code of
ordinances, the state’s Building Code or the state’s Fire Code, whichever is
the most restrictive requirement permitted under statute.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 151.11 REQUIREMENTS NOT COVERED BY CODE.
   Requirements necessary for the strength, stability or proper operation of an
existing fixture, structure or equipment, or for the public safety, health and
general welfare, not specifically covered by this chapter, shall be determined
by the administrative authority.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 151.12 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to be in conflict
with or in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.13 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words stated in the present tense include the future; words stated in
the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter; the singular number
includes the plural and the plural, the singular.
   (B)   Where terms are not defined in this chapter and are defined in the
city’s code of ordinances,
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances, the state’s Building Code or the state’s
Fire Code, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as stated in
those codes.
   (C)   Where terms are not defined through the methods authorized by this
section, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings such as the context
implies.
   (D)   Whenever the words “dwelling unit”, “dwelling”, “premises”,
“building”, “rooming house”, “rooming unit”, “housekeeping unit” or “story” are
stated in this chapter, they shall be construed as though they were followed by
the words “or any part thereof”.
   (E)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY. The official who is charged with the
administration and enforcement of this chapter or any duly authorized
representative.
      APPOINTING AUTHORITY. The City Council serves as the appointing
authority.
      APPROVED. Approved by the administrative authority.
      BASEMENT. Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its
floor or base subgrade (below ground level) on at least three sides, regardless
of the depth of excavation below ground level.
      BATHROOM. A room containing plumbing fixtures including a bathtub or
shower.
      BEDROOM. Any room or space used or intended to be used for sleeping
purposes in either a dwelling or sleeping unit.
      CONDEMN. To adjudge unfit for occupancy.
      DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms, designed, occupied or intended for
occupancy as separate living quarters, with cooking, sleeping and sanitary
facilities provided within the dwelling unit for the exclusive use of a single
family maintaining a household.
      EXTERIOR PROPERTY. The open space on the premises and on adjoining
property under the control of owners or operators of such premises.
      EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rats or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that serve as their food; by poison spraying, fumigating, trapping or
by any other approved pest elimination methods.
      GARBAGE. The animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      GUARD. A building component or a system of building components located at
or near the open sides of elevated walking surfaces that minimizes the
possibility of a fall from the walking surface to a lower level.
      HABITABLE SPACE. Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, storage or utility spaces and
similar areas are not considered HABITABLE SPACES.
      HOUSEKEEPING UNIT. A room or group of rooms forming a single habitable
space equipped and intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating
which does not contain, within such a unit, a toilet, lavatory and bathtub or
shower.
      IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which could cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
      INFESTATION. The presence, within or contiguous to, a structure or
premises of insects, rats, vermin or other pests.
      INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which cannot be driven upon the
public streets for reason including, but not limited to, being unlicensed,
wrecked, abandoned, in a state of disrepair or incapable of being moved under
its own power.
      LABELED. Devices, equipment, appliances or materials to which has been
affixed a label, seal, symbol or other identifying mark of a nationally
recognized testing laboratory, inspection agency or other organization
concerned with product evaluation that maintains periodic inspection of the
production of the above-labeled items and by whose label the manufacturer
attests to compliance with applicable nationally recognized standards.
      LET FOR OCCUPANCY or LET. To permit, provide or offer possession or
occupancy of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building, premises or
structure by a person who is or is not the legal owner of record thereof,
pursuant to a written or unwritten lease, agreement or license, or pursuant to
a recorded or unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of land.
      OCCUPANCY. The purpose for which a building or portion thereof is
utilized or occupied.
      OCCUPANT. Any individual living or sleeping in a building, or having
possession of a space within a building.
      OPENABLE AREA. The part of a window, skylight or door which is available
for unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a structure or
premises which is let or offered for occupancy.
      OWNER. Any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the
state, county or municipality as holding title to the property; or otherwise
having control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of any
such person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of such person if
ordered to take possession of real property by a court. In the case of a sign,
the OWNER of the sign including any lessees.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership or any other group acting
as a unit.
      PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, easement or public way,
including any structures thereon.
      PUBLIC WAY. Any street, alley or similar parcel of land essentially
unobstructed from the ground to the sky, which is deeded, dedicated or
otherwise permanently appropriated to the public for public use.
      ROOMING HOUSE. A building arranged or occupied for lodging, with or
without meals, for compensation and not occupied as a one- or two-family
dwelling.
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
occupied or intended to be occupied for sleeping or living, but not for cooking
purposes.
      RUBBISH. Combustible and non-combustible waste materials, except garbage;
the term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and
other combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass, crockery and dust and other similar materials.
      SLEEPING UNIT. A room or space in which people sleep, which can also
include permanent provisions for living, eating and either sanitation or
kitchen facilities, but not both. Such rooms and spaces that are also part of a
dwelling unit are not SLEEPING UNITS.
      STRICT LIABILITY OFFENSE. An offense in which the prosecution in a legal
proceeding is not required to prove criminal intent as a part of its case. It
is enough to prove that the defendant either did an act which was prohibited,
or failed to do an act which the defendant was legally required to do.
      STRUCTURE. Anything which is built, constructed or erected, an edifice or
building of any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up and/or
composed of parts joined together in some definite manner whether temporary or
permanent in character.
      TENANT. A person, corporation, partnership or group, whether or not the
legal owner of record, occupying a building or portion thereof as a unit.
      TOILET ROOM. A room containing a water closet or urinal, but not a
bathtub or shower.
      VENTILATION. The natural or mechanical process of supplying conditioned
or unconditioned air to, or removing such air from, any space.
      WORKMANLIKE. Executed in a skilled manner (e.g., generally plumb, level,
square, in line, undamaged and without marring adjacent work).
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
DEPARTMENT OF PROPERTY MAINTENANCE INSPECTION.
§ 151.25 LIABILITY.
   The administrative authority, officer or employee charged with the
enforcement of this chapter, while acting for the jurisdiction, shall not
thereby be rendered liable personally, and is hereby relieved from all personal
liability for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result of an act
required or permitted in the discharge of official duties. Any suit instituted
against any officer or employee because of an act performed by that officer or
employee in the lawful discharge of duties and under the provisions of this
chapter shall be defended by the legal representative of the jurisdiction until
the final termination of the proceedings. The administrative authority or any
subordinate shall not be liable for costs in an action, suit or proceeding that
is instituted in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter; and any official
of the city, acting in good faith and without malice, shall be free from
liability for acts performed under any of its provisions or by reason of any
act or omission in the performance of official duties in connection therewith.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 151.26 FEES.
   The fees for activities and services performed by the Department in carrying
out its responsibilities under this chapter shall be as set forth in the Fee
Schedule Ordinance on file in the city offices.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 151.27 DUTIES AND POWERS GENERALLY.
   The administrative authority shall enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 151.28 RULE-MAKING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The administrative authority shall have authority as necessary in the
interest of public health, safety and general welfare, to adopt and promulgate
rules and procedures; to interpret and implement the provisions of this
chapter; to secure the intent thereof; and to designate requirements applicable
because of local climatic or other conditions.
   (B)   Such rules shall not have the effect of waiving structural or fire
performance requirements specifically provided for in this chapter, or of
violating accepted engineering methods involving public safety.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 151.29 INSPECTIONS.
   The administrative authority shall make all of the required inspections, or
shall accept reports of inspection by approved agencies or individuals. All
reports of such inspections shall be in writing and be certified by a
responsible officer of such approved agency or by the responsible individual.
The administrative authority is authorized to engage such expert opinion as
deemed necessary to report upon unusual technical issues that arise, subject to
the approval of the appointing authority.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 151.30 RIGHT OF ACCESS.
   The administrative authority is authorized to access the property at
reasonable times to inspect subject to constitutional restrictions on
unreasonable searches and seizures. In the event of a suspected violation, if
access is refused or not obtained, the administrative authority is authorized
to pursue recourse as provided by law.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 151.31 IDENTIFICATION.
   The administrative authority shall carry proper identification when
inspecting structures or premises in the performance of duties under this
chapter.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 151.32 NOTICES AND ORDERS.
   (A)   The administrative authority shall issue all necessary notices of
orders to ensure compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Notice to property owner. Whenever the administrative authority
determines that there has been a violation of this chapter or has grounds to
believe that a violation has occurred, notice shall be given in the manner
prescribed in divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) below to the property owner as
specified in this chapter. Notices for condemnation procedures shall also
comply with §
151.34(A) of this chapter.
      (2)   Form. Such notice prescribed in division (A) above shall be in
accordance with all of the following:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
         (c)   Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the
notice is being issued;
         (d)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time to make
the repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure
into compliance with the provisions of this chapter;
         (e)   Inform the property owner of the right to appeal; and
         (f)   Include a statement of the right to file a lien in accordance
with §
151.99(A)(2) of this chapter.
      (3)   Method of service. Such notice shall be deemed to be properly
served if a copy thereof is:
         (a)   Delivered personally;
         (b)   Sent by certified or first-class mail addressed to the last
known address; or
         (c)   If the notice is required showing that the letter was not
delivered, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about
the structure affected by such notice.
      (4)   Penalties. Penalties for non-compliance with order and notices
shall be as set forth in §
151.99(A)(3) of this chapter.
      (5)   Transfer of ownership. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
dwelling unit or structure who has received a compliance order or upon whom a
notice of violation has been served to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease or
otherwise dispose of such dwelling unit or structure to another until the
provisions of the compliance order or notice of violation have been complied
with, or until such owner shall first furnish the grantee, transferee,
mortgagee or lessee a true copy of any compliance order or notice of violation
issued by the administrative authority and shall furnish to the administrative
authority a signed and notarized statement from the grantee, transferee,
mortgagee or lessee, acknowledging the receipt of such compliance order or
notice of violation and fully accepting the responsibility without condition
for making the corrections or repairs required by such compliance order or
notice of violation.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 151.33 DEPARTMENT RECORDS.
   The administrative authority shall keep official records of all business and
activities of the department specified in the provisions of this chapter. Such
records shall be retained in the official records as long as the building or
structure to which such records relate remains in existence, unless otherwise
provided for by other regulations.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 151.34 EMERGENCY CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Unsafe structures.
      (1)   General. When a structure is found by the appointed authority to be
unsafe for human occupancy, or is found unlawful, such structure may be
condemned pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Closing of vacant structures. If the structure is vacant and is not
in danger of structural collapse, the appointed authority is authorized to post
a placard of closure (condemnation) on the premises and order the structure
closed up so as not to be an attractive nuisance. Upon failure of the owner to
close up the premises within the time specified in the order, the appointed
authority shall cause the premises to be closed and secured through any
available public agency or by contract or arrangement by private persons and
the cost thereof shall be charged against the real estate upon which the
structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate as provided in
M.S. Ch. 429, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Emergency measures.
      (1)   Imminent danger.
         (a)   When, in the opinion of the administrative authority, there is
imminent danger of failure or collapse of a building or structure which
endangers life, or when any structure or part of a structure has fallen and
life is endangered by the occupation of the structure, or when there is actual
or potential danger to the building occupants or those in the proximity of any
structure because of explosives, explosive fumes or vapors or the presence of
toxic fumes, gases or materials, or operation of defective or dangerous
equipment, the administrative authority is hereby authorized and empowered to
order and require the occupants to vacate the premises forthwith.
         (b)   The administrative authority shall cause to be posted at each
entrance to such structure a notice reading as follows: “This Structure Is
Unsafe and Its Occupancy Has Been Prohibited by the City of Emily.”
         (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter such structure,
except for the purpose of securing the structure, making the required repairs,
removing the hazardous condition or of demolishing the same.
      (2)   Temporary safeguards. Notwithstanding other provisions of this
chapter, whenever, in the opinion of the administrative authority, there is
imminent danger due to an unsafe condition, the administrative authority shall
order the necessary work to be done, including the boarding up of openings, to
render such structure temporarily safe whether or not the legal procedure
herein described has been instituted; and shall cause such other action to be
taken as the administrative authority deems necessary to meet such emergency.
      (3)   Closing streets. When necessary for public safety, the
administrative authority shall temporarily close structures and close, or order
the authority having jurisdiction to close, sidewalks, streets, public ways and
places adjacent to unsafe structures, and prohibit the same from being
utilized.
      (4)   Emergency repairs. For the purposes of this section, the
administrative authority shall employ the necessary labor and materials to
perform the required work as expeditiously as possible.
      (5)   Costs of emergency repairs. Costs incurred in the performance of
emergency work shall be paid by the jurisdiction. The legal counsel of the
jurisdiction shall institute appropriate action against the owner of the
premises where the unsafe structure is or was located for the recovery of such
costs.
      (6)   Hearing. Any person ordered to take emergency measures shall comply
with such order forthwith. Any affected person shall thereafter, upon petition
directed to the appeals board, be afforded a hearing as described in this
division (B).
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
REQUIREMENTS AND REGULATIONS
§ 151.45 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall govern the minimum conditions and
the responsibilities of persons for maintenance of structures and exterior
property.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 151.46 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of the premises shall maintain the structures and exterior
property in compliance with these requirements, except as otherwise provided
for in this chapter. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit
another person to occupy premises which are not in a sanitary and safe
condition and which do not comply with the requirements of this section.
Occupants of a dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit are responsible
for keeping in a clean, sanitary and safe condition that part of the dwelling
unit, rooming unit, housekeeping unit or premises which they occupy and
control.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 151.47 EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS.
   (A)   Sanitation. All exterior property and premises shall be maintained in
a clean, safe and sanitary condition. The occupant shall keep that part of the
exterior property which such occupant occupies or controls in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   (B)   Grading and drainage. All developed premises shall be graded and
maintained to prevent the erosion of soil and to prevent the accumulation of
stagnant water thereon, or within any structure located thereon in accordance
with §
152.080 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Right-of-way. No person shall plant any shrub, tree or other type of
plant or place any objects within the public right-of-way of any public street,
road, alley or way within the city without first obtaining the permission of
the city. The city has the right to trim or remove any trees or plants within
its discretion. No person shall cut down or remove any trees located within the
public right-of-way of any public street, road, alley or way without the
permission of the city.
   (D)   Weeds.
      (1)   All developed premises and portions of exterior property located
within 25 feet of an occupied structure shall be maintained free from weeds or
plant growth in excess of 12 inches. All noxious weeds shall be prohibited.
WEEDS shall be defined as all grasses, annual plants and vegetation, other than
trees or shrubs; provided, however, this term shall not include cultivated
flowers and gardens.
      (2)   Upon failure of the owner or agent having charge of a property to
cut and destroy weeds after service of a notice of violation, he or she shall
be subject to prosecution in accordance with §
151.99(A)(2) of this chapter and as prescribed by the authority having
jurisdiction. Upon failure to comply with the notice of violation, any duly
authorized employee of the jurisdiction or contractor hired by the jurisdiction
shall be authorized to access the property in violation and cut and destroy the
weeds growing thereon, and the costs of such removal, as set forth in the Fee
Schedule Ordinance, shall be paid by the owner or agent responsible for the
property in accordance with §
151.99(A)(2) of this chapter.
   (E)   Rodent harborage. All structures and exterior property maintained free
from rodent harborage and infestation. Where rodents are found, they shall be
promptly exterminated by approved processes which will not be injurious to
human health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to
eliminate rodent harborage and prevent reinfestation.
   (F)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures, including detached
garages, fences and walls, shall be maintained structurally sound and in good
repair.
   (G)   Motor vehicles.
      (1)   Reference
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances and M.S. Ch. 168, Vehicle Registration,
Taxation, Sale, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Except as provided for in other regulations, no inoperative or
unlicensed motor vehicle shall be parked, kept or stored on any premises in an
area that is primarily visible to the public, and no vehicle shall at any time
be in a state of major disassembly, disrepair or in the process of being
stripped or dismantled within view of the street or neighbors. Painting of
vehicles is prohibited unless conducted inside an approved spray booth.
      (3)   Exception: a vehicle of any type is permitted to undergo major
overhaul, including body work; provided that, such work is performed inside a
structure or similarly enclosed area designed and approved for such purposes.
   (H)   Defacement of property.
      (1)   No person shall willfully or wantonly damage, mutilate or deface
any exterior surface of any structure or building on any private or public
property by placing thereon any marking, carving or graffiti.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner to restore said surface
to an approved state of maintenance and repair.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014; Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 3-8-2016)
§ 151.48 EXTERIOR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   General. The exterior of a structure shall be maintained in good
repair, structurally sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the
public health, safety or welfare.
   (B)   Protective treatment. All exterior surfaces, including, but not
limited to, doors, door and window frames, cornices, porches, trim, balconies,
decks and fences shall be maintained in good condition. Exterior wood surfaces,
other than decay resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and
decay by painting or other protective covering or treatment. Peeling, flaking
and chipped paint shall be eliminated and surfaces repainted. All siding and
masonry joints as well as those between the building envelope and the perimeter
of windows, doors and skylights shall be maintained weather resistant and
water-tight. All metal surfaces subject to rust or corrosion shall be coated to
inhibit such rust and corrosion and all surfaces with rust or corrosion shall
be stabilized and coated to inhibit future rust and corrosion. Oxidation stains
shall be removed from exterior surfaces. Surfaces designed for stabilization by
oxidation are exempt from this requirement.
   (C)   Structural members. All structural members shall be maintained free
from deterioration and shall be capable of safely supporting the imposed dead
and live loads.
   (D)   Foundation walls. All foundation walls shall be maintained plumb and
free from open cracks and breaks and shall be kept in such condition so as to
prevent the entry of rodents and other pests.
   (E)   Exterior walls. All exterior walls shall be free from holes, breaks
and loose or rotting materials; and maintained weather-proof and properly
surface coated where required to prevent deterioration.
   (F)   Roofs and drainage. The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and
not have defects that admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent
dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the structure.
Roof drains, gutters and downspouts shall be maintained in good repair and free
from obstructions. Roof water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates
a public nuisance.
   (G)   Decorative features. All cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra cotta
trim, wall facings and similar decorative features shall be maintained in good
repair with proper anchorage and in a safe condition.
   (H)   Overhang extensions. All overhang extensions, including, but not
limited to, canopies, marquees, signs, metal awnings, fire escapes, standpipes
and exhaust ducts shall be maintained in good repair and be properly anchored
so as to be kept in a sound condition. When required, all exposed surfaces of
metal or wood shall be protected from the elements and against decay or rust by
periodic application of weather-coating materials, such as paint or similar
surface treatment.
   (I)   Stairways, decks, porches and balconies. Every exterior stairway,
deck, porch and balcony, and all appurtenances attached thereto, shall be
maintained structurally sound, in good repair, with proper anchorage and
capable of supporting the imposed loads.
   (J)   Chimneys and towers. All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks and
similar appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe and sound, and in
good repair. All exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the
elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather coating
materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
   (K)   Handrails and guards. Every handrail and guard shall be firmly
fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition.
   (L)   Window, skylight and door frames. Every window, skylight, door and
frame shall be kept in sound condition, good repair and weather-tight.
      (1)   Glazing. All glazing materials shall be maintained free from cracks
and holes.
      (2)   Openable windows. Every window, other than a fixed window, shall be
easily openable and capable of being held in position by window hardware.
   (M)   Insect screens. Insect screens shall be maintained in good repair.
Exception: screens shall not be required where other approved means, such as
air curtains or insect repellent fans, are employed.
   (N)   Doors. All exterior doors, door assemblies and hardware shall be
maintained in good condition. Locks at all entrances to dwelling units and
sleeping units shall tightly secure the door. Locks on means of egress doors
shall be in accordance with the state’s Building Code.
   (O)   Basement hatchways. Every basement hatchway shall be maintained to
prevent the entrance of rodents, rain and surface drainage water.
   (P)   Guards for basement windows. Every basement window that is operable
shall be supplied with rodent shields, storm windows or other approved
protection against the entry of rodents.
   (Q)   Building security. Doors, windows or hatchways for dwelling units,
room units or housekeeping units shall be provided with devices designed to
provide security for the occupants and property within.
   (R)   Exterior completion of single-family and two-family dwelling unit
buildings.
      (1)   The roof and all exterior surfaces of single-family dwelling unit
and two-family dwelling unit buildings, and buildings and structures accessory
thereto, shall be completed with exterior finish materials within two years
from the effective date of this division (R) or within one year after the date
of the building permit, whichever is later, for the new construction,
alteration, remodeling or relocation of such building or structure.
      (2)   Any person unable to satisfy conditions of this division (R) due to
unforeseen conditions having a significant impact on the completion of the
exterior may request an extension to the initial one or two-year time limit.
Such a request shall be made in writing, submitted at least 30 days prior to
the initial expiration date. The request shall be reviewed by the City Council.
One extension of up to one year may be granted by approval of the Planning and
Zoning Commission if the exterior work is proceeding expeditiously and will be
at least 50% complete at the end of the initial one-year period. The decision
of Planning and Zoning Commission may be appealed to the City Council.
Subsequent requests for time extensions shall require a formal review by the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (3)   The term FINISH MATERIALS, as used in this division (R), shall mean
materials installed in compliance with the Building Code and shall include, but
not be limited to, stucco, brick, stone, shingles or shakes, painted, stained
or color clad siding materials, windows and doors. Tar paper, unfinished
plywood, fiberboard sheathing, foam insulation, brown coat or scratch coat of
stucco, plastic sheeting and other similar materials not designed to be
exterior finish shall not be considered an acceptable exterior finish.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 151.49 RUBBISH AND GARBAGE.
   (A)   Accumulation of rubbish or garbage. All exterior property and premises
shall be free from any accumulation of rubbish or garbage.
   (B)   Disposal of rubbish. Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of
all rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing such rubbish in approved
containers.
      (1)   Rubbish storage facilities. The owner of every occupied premises
shall supply approved covered containers for rubbish and the owner of the
premises shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
      (2)   Refrigerators. Refrigerators and similar equipment not in operation
shall not be discarded, abandoned or stored on premises.
   (C)   Disposal of garbage. Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of
garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by placing such garbage in an approved
garbage disposal facility or approved garbage containers. The operator of every
establishment producing garbage shall provide, and at all times cause to be
utilized, approved leak-proof containers provided with close-fitting covers for
the storage of such materials until removed from the premises for disposal.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 151.50 INFESTATIONS; EXTERMINATION.
   (A)   All structures shall be kept free from insect and rodent infestation.
All structures in which insects or rodents are found shall be promptly
exterminated by approved processes that will not be injurious to human health.
After extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to prevent
reinfestation.
   (B)   The owner of any structure shall be responsible for extermination
within the structure prior to renting or leasing the structure.
   (C)   The owner/occupant of a one-family dwelling or of a single-tenant non-
residential structure shall be responsible for extermination on the premises.
   (D)   The owner of a structure containing two or more dwelling units, a
multiple occupancy, a rooming house or a non-residential structure shall be
responsible for extermination in the public or shared areas of the structure
and exterior property. If infestation is caused by failure of an occupant to
prevent such infestation in the area occupied, the occupant shall be
responsible for extermination.
   (E)   The owner/occupant of any structure shall be responsible for the
continued rodent and pest-free condition of the structure.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 151.51 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   General. Any public nuisance, as described in this chapter, unless
otherwise provided for elsewhere in the city code, shall be abated in
accordance with the following procedure.
      (1)   Any peace officer or designated official, upon complaint or after
investigation, may order a public nuisance abated by written notice to the
owner of record as determined by the County Auditor and any known tenants.
      (2)   Such written notice shall specify 48 hours or such or such longer
time as is reasonable for the abatement of such nuisance.
      (3)   Such written notice shall be served upon the owner and lessee and
occupant of the premises and shall be served either personally or by certified
mail.
      (4)   The owner shall have until the date and time specified on the
written notice to abate the nuisance or appeal the written notice in writing to
the City Council.
      (5)   In the event the owner appeals the written notice, abatement shall
be stayed until the City Council rules on the appeal.
      (6)   In the event the City Council rules against the owner, the City
Council may stay enforcement of the written notice for such period of time as
determined by the City Council.
      (7)   In the event the owner shall not abate the Property Maintenance
Code violation in accordance with the written notice or appeal the notice to
the City Council in writing, the peace officer or designated official may order
such nuisance abated by the city, its agents or employees.
      (8)   Any personal property removed from the abated property shall be
held by the city for a period of 14 days. The City shall provide written notice
to the owner, lessee and occupant of the abated property of the fact that
personal property is being held by the city. Upon payment of all storage costs,
the owner of the personal property may retrieve the personal property; provided
that, the personal property is not returned in such a manner to any location
within the city limits so as to constitute a nuisance as defined in this
document. If the owner of the personal property fails to reclaim the personal
property within two weeks as provided for herein, the city may sell or dispose
of the personal property. Any proceeds obtained from the sale of the personal
property shall be used to offset the abatement costs. The city shall be under
no obligation to sell the personal property.
   (B)   Assessment procedure.
      (1)   The owner of the premises on which a nuisance has been abated by
the city and a person who has caused a public nuisance on property not owned by
that person, shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the
abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Clerk/Treasurer or other city
official shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon,
the amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City
Clerk/Treasurer.
      (2)   After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as it may
be amended from time to time, if the nuisance is a public health or safety
hazard on private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public
sidewalks, the growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled
portion of the streets, or unsound or insect infected trees, the City Clerk/
Treasurer shall, on or before December 1 next following abatement of the
nuisance, list the total unpaid charges, along with all other such charges, as
well as other charges for current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101,
as it may be amended from time to time, against each separate lot or parcel to
which the charges are attributable. The City Council may then spread the
charges against the property under that statute and any other pertinent
statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collection along with
current taxes for the following year or in annual installments, not exceeding
ten, as the City Council may determine in each case.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 2- -2015) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Notice of violation. An official of the city shall serve a
notice of violation or order in accordance with §
151.32(B) of this chapter.
      (2)   Prosecution of violation. Any person failing to comply with an
order to correct served in accordance with §
151.32(B) of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor or civil
infraction as determined by the local municipality, and the violation shall be
deemed a strict liability offense. If the order to correct is not complied
with, the City Council shall institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in
equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require the removal
or termination of the unlawful occupancy of the structure in violation of the
provisions of this chapter or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto.
Any action taken by the authority having jurisdiction on such premises shall be
charged against the real estate upon which the structure is located and shall
be a lien upon such real estate in accordance with M.S. Ch. 429, as it may be
amended from time to time.
      (3)   Violation penalties. Any person, who shall violate a provision of
this chapter, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements
thereof, shall be prosecuted within the limits provided by state or local laws.
Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be
deemed a separate offense.
      (4)   Abatement of violation. The imposition of the penalties herein
prescribed shall not preclude the legal officer of the jurisdiction from
instituting appropriate action to restrain, correct or abate a violation, or to
prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises, or to stop an
illegal act, conduct, business or utilization of the building, structure or
premises.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter, unless
otherwise provided for in the city code, if the city chooses to proceed with a
criminal citation, upon conviction thereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be punished in accordance with the statutes of the state in
existence. Each day of violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 5-13-2014; Ord. 450, 1st Series, passed 2- -2015)
CHAPTER 152: LAND USE AND SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Intent and purpose
   
152.003   Rules of construction; definitions
   
152.004   Application
   
152.005   Environmental documents and concurrent permits
   
152.006   Use of pre-existing lots
   
152.007   Non-conforming structures and uses
   
152.008   Building standards
   
152.009   Improvement
   
152.010   Liability of city officials
   
152.011   Equitable relief
   
152.012   Separability
   
152.013   Supremacy
   
152.014   Effectuation
   
152.015   Amendment
   
152.016   Notices
   
152.017   Lake classification
   
152.018   Land use fees
Zoning Districts
   
152.030   General
   
152.031   Open Space District (OS)
   
152.032   Forest Preservation (FP)
   
152.033   Forest Residential (FR)
   
152.034   Reserved
   
152.035   Shoreline Residential (SR)
   
152.036   Neighborhood Residential (NR)
   
152.037   Rural Preservation (RP)
   
152.038   Downtown Mixed-Use (DMU)
   
152.039   Commercial Transition/Light Industrial (CT)
   
152.040   Shoreline Commercial (SC)
   
152.041   Recreation (REC)
   
152.042   Highway Mixed-Use (HMU)
   
152.043   Land Use Matrix
Overlay Districts
   
152.055   General
   
152.056   Shoreland Overlay District
   
152.057   Recreation Overlay District
Performance Standards
   
152.070   Signs
   
152.071   Nuisance standards
   
152.072   Fences
   
152.073   Storage
   
152.074   Visual standards; screening
   
152.075   Sanitary and subsurface sewage treatment systems-technical standards
and criteria
   
152.076   Animal husbandry
   
152.077   Tree removal/woodland preservation/soil erosion prevention
   
152.078   Parking and loading
   
152.079   Drainage
   
152.080   Grading
   
152.081   Boardwalks
   
152.082   Decks
   
152.083   Patios
   
152.084   Recreational vehicles and camping
   
152.085   Park models: park model standards
   
152.086   Controlled access lots
   
152.087   Wind energy conversion systems (WECS)
   
152.088   Solar energy systems
   
152.089   Antennas and towers
Special Provisions
   
152.100   Rural conservation subdivision (RCS)
   
152.101   Shoreline conservation subdivision
   
152.102   Manufactured and pre-built housing development
   
152.103   Campgrounds/campsites
   
152.104   Extractive uses and restoration
   
152.105   Home occupation
   
152.106   Auto salvage yards/junk yards
   
152.107   Landfills
   
152.108   Adult use
   
152.109   Bed and breakfasts
   
152.110   Rental of residential property
   
152.111   Bulk sampling of mineral manganese
   
152.112   Temporary family health care dwellings
   
152.113   Temporary commercial structures: short and long term
   
152.114   Retreat centers
   
152.115   Outdoor markets
Subdivision Standards
   
152.130   Sketch plan
   
152.131   Subdivision by metes and bounds: Planning Commission or Zoning
Administrator approval of design standards
   
152.132   Preliminary plat or preliminary condominium plat
   
152.133   Final plat or final condominium plat
   
152.134   Design layout standards
   
152.135   Survey standards
   
152.136   Street improvement standards
   
152.137   Sanitary provision standards
   
152.138   Water supply standards
   
152.139   Drainage/grading standards
   
152.140   Dedication to the public
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.150   Zoning Administrator
   
152.151   Board of Adjustment
   
152.152   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
152.153   Parks Committee
   
152.154   City Council
   
152.155   Conditional use permits
   
152.156   Variances
   
152.157   Interim use permits
   
152.158   Zoning permits
   
152.159   Subdivision
   
152.160   Fees
   
152.161   Financial requirements
   
152.162   Required decision making time frames
   
152.163   Alternative methods of administrative enforcement
 
   
152.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Table of Uses
Cross-reference:
   Floodplain management and Floodplain District, see
Ch. 153
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be referred to and cited as the “Emily Land Use, Zoning
and Subdivision Ordinance”, except herein, where it shall be cited as the
“ordinance” or “this chapter”.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.002 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is established pursuant to the authority granted by state
statutes, in particular: the Municipal Planning Act, M.S. §§ 462.351 to
461.364, as they may be amended from time to time; the Municipal Shoreland Act,
M.S. Ch. 379, as it may be amended from time to time; M.S. §§ 462.351 to
462.364, as they may be amended from time to time; the Land Subdivision and
Condominiums Acts, Ch. 462, 505, 515, 515A and 515B, as they may be amended
from time to time.
   (B)   This chapter is adopted for the purpose of:
      (1)   Protecting the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and
general welfare;
      (2)   Inaugurating and effectuating the goals of the Comprehensive Plan;
      (3)   Promoting order in development by dividing the area of the city
into zones and regulating therein the location, construction, reconstruction,
alteration and use of the structures and land;
      (4)   Conserving the natural and scenic beauty and attractiveness of the
city, for the health and welfare of the public;
      (5)   Providing for adequate light, air and access to property by
regulating the use of the land and buildings and the bulk of structures in
relation to surrounding properties;
      (6)   Providing for the administration of the provisions of the ordinance
and defining the authority and duties of the Administrator, Planning
Commission, Board of Adjustment, Parks Committee and City Council under this
chapter; and
      (7)   Providing standards and criteria for shorelands to preserve and
enhance the quality of surface waters, conserve the economic and natural
environment values of shorelands and provide for the wise use of water and
related land resources for the city.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.003 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The language set forth in the text of this chapter shall be
interpreted in accordance with the following rules of construction.
      (1)   The word person includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation as well as an individual.
      (2)   The masculine gender includes the feminine gender and the neuter
gender.
      (3)   The singular includes the plural and the plural includes the
singular.
      (4)   The present tense includes the past and future tenses and the
future includes the present.
      (5)   The word “may” is permissive. The word “shall” is mandatory.
Mandatory compliance with this chapter shall allow for variances thereto.
      (6)   All horizontal and vertical measured distances shall be expressed
to the nearest tenth of a foot and its metric equivalent, unless specifically
stated otherwise.
      (7)   The words “lot”, “plot”, “piece” and “parcel” of land are
interchangeable.
      (8)   The words “used for” shall include the phrases “arranged for”,
“designed for”, “intended for”, “improved for”, “maintained for” and “occupied
for”.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. An abandoned motor vehicle as defined in state
statutes.
      ABANDONED STRUCTURE. A structure, as defined hereinafter, on public or
private property, which no longer serves a practical use and, due to its
location or structural condition, is considered a safety hazard.
      ABUTTING. Making direct contact with or immediately bordering.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A building or other structure that is supportive,
secondary and subordinate in use and/or size to the principle structure on the
same parcel or lot which, because of the nature of its use, can reasonably be
located at or greater than minimum structure setbacks. Includes all structures
not considered the principle structure including, but not limited to,
television towers/antennas, dish antennas, outdoor swimming pools, outdoor hot-
tubs, detached garages, sheds, guest quarters and boathouses.
      ACCESSORY USE. A use naturally and normally incident and subordinate to
the main use of the premises.
      ADDITION. A physical enlargement of an existing structure.
      ADJACENT. In close proximity to or neighboring, not necessarily abutting.
      ADULT BOOK AND/OR MEDIA STORE. An establishment which has a substantial
portion (25% of utilized floor area) of its stock in trade or stock on display
books, magazines, films, videotapes or other media which are characterized by
their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT CABARET. An establishment which provides dancing or other live
entertainment, and if such dancing or other live entertainment in distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on the performance, depiction or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT ESTABLISHMENT. Any business which offers its patrons services,
entertainment or the sale of merchandise characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, exposing, describing, discussing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas. Specifically included in the term,
but without limitation, are adult book and media stores, adult cabarets, adult
hotels or motels, adult mini-motion picture theaters, adult modeling studios,
adult motion picture arcades, adult motion picture theaters, adult novelty
businesses and other adult establishments.
      ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL. A hotel or motel wherein material is presented
which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER.
         (a)   A theater in an enclosed building, with a capacity for less than
50 persons used for presenting motion pictures, including, but not limited to,
film and videotape, having as a dominant theme material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
         (b)   Any business which presents motion pictures, including films and
videotapes, having as a dominant theme material distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, for viewing on the premises,
including, but not limited to, private booths, viewing by means of coin-
operated or other mechanical devices and the viewing of excerpt of motion
pictures offered for sale or rent.
      ADULT MODELING STUDIO. An establishment whose major business is the
provision, to customers, of figure models who are so provided with the intent
of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to such customers and
who engage in specified sexual activities or display specified anatomical areas
while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn, sculptured,
photographed or otherwise depicted by such customers.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place wherein coin- or token-operated or
electronically-, electrically- or mechanically-controlled or operated still or
motor picture machines, projectors or other image producing devices are
maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time,
and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A theater in an enclosed building with a
capacity of 50 or more persons used regularly and routinely for presenting live
entertainment or motion pictures, including, but not limited to, film and
videotapes, having as a dominant theme material distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which sells, offers to sell or
displays devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which are designed
for sexual stimulation.
      ADULT USE. Any of the adult activities and businesses described herein
constitute “adult-oriented businesses” which are subject to the regulation of
this chapter.
      AGENT. Any person acting on behalf of a landowner in dealing with
activities under the jurisdiction of this chapter, including, but not limited
to, realtors, contractors or attorneys.
      AGRICULTURAL USE. The use of land for agricultural purposes including
farming, dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture, tree
farming and lumbering, viticulture and animal and poultry husbandry and the
necessary accessory uses used for packing, treating or storing the product;
provided, however, that, the operation of any such accessory uses shall be
secondary to that of the normal agricultural activities.
      AIRPORT. Any premises used or intended for use for the landing and taking
off of aircraft including any structures used or intended for use for aircraft
services.
      ALLOWED USE. A use that is allowed by this chapter and does not require a
permit.
      ALTERATION. A change or rearrangement of structural or non-structural
parts of an existing structure within the previously permitted footprint.
      ANIMALS, DOMESTIC. Common household pets, such as dogs and cats, kept for
amusement, companionship, decoration or interest.
      ANIMALS, FARM. Fish, fowl, cattle, swine, horses, sheep and others
customarily found on a farm, raised for the purposes of food consumption or
companionship.
      ANIMALS, WILD. Animals, such as wolves, tigers, lions and snakes, that
are not normally a domestic animal or farm animal and would ordinarily be
confined in a zoo or found in the wild.
      ANIMAL BOARDING FACILITY. An establishment that houses animals, other
than those belonging to the occupant, overnight or over an extended period of
time.
      ANIMAL GROOMING ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment principally engaged in
grooming animals in which overnight boarding is prohibited.
      ANIMAL HUSBANDRY. The care or breeding of domestic animals such as
cattle, hogs, sheep, horses, poultry, dogs (more than two) or cats (more than
three) for the occupants of a property.
      ANIMAL UNIT. A unit of measure based on the approximate production of
wastes from 1,000 pounds of live weight of poultry or animals.
 Animal Units
                                   Animal Units
1 slaughter weight steer or heifer 1
1 mature dairy cow or horse        1.4
1 swine over 55 pounds             0.4
1 sheep                            0.1
1 goose                            0.1
1 duck                             0.05
1 turkey                           0.18
1 chicken                          0.1
1 dog                              0.1
1 cat                              0.05
 
      ANTENNA. A metallic apparatus for sending or receiving electromagnetic
waves.
      APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms that is designed for, intended for or
occupied as a dwelling unit by a family or individual, and is equipped with
sanitary facilities.
      APPEAL. An application for the review of an order, requirement, decision,
determination or interpretation of this chapter made by an administrative
officer in the application and/or enforcement of this chapter.
      ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTION. A non-functional or ornamental feature on a
building or other structure that does not extend to, or from, the ground.
      ARTIST’S STUDIO. A fine arts workshop of a painter, sculptor, potter,
weaver, carver, jeweler, photographer or other similar art that requires
artistic skill, where the public is received or where the artist is engaging in
retail sales. Not generally utilitarian, related to personal hygiene or
adornment.
      ATTACHED. Two buildings or structures that combine to form one building
or structure through the use of at least one common wall, not including a
breezeway.
      AUTOMOBILE SALES AND REPAIR. An open or enclosed area (building or
structure), other than a street, used for the display, sale, rental or repair
of new and used motor vehicles in operable condition.
      AUTO SALVAGE YARD. A lot or yard where four or more motor vehicles are
stored while parts are removed, where crushing occurs or where storage pending
crushing may occur.
      AUTO TRIP. Transport in a vehicle that includes both an arrival and a
departure from a location.
      BALCONY. Same as a DECK.
      BANK/FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS. A financial institution licensed to receive
deposits and make loans or provide financial planning.
      BANNER. A temporary sign constructed out of paper, plastic, cloth,
cardboard or some other non-permanent material and affixed to poles or the side
of a building in a manner than can be easily moved, modified or rearranged.
      BAR/ON or OFF-SALE LIQUOR SALES. A commercial business that allows the
sale of all types of wine and malt beverages for consumption on or off the
premises.
      BATHROOM. A room containing a shower or bathtub or a sink and toilet.
      BASEMENT. The space below the first story of a structure which is greater
than four feet in height.
      BED AND BREAKFAST DWELLING. A dwelling, single-family, licensed through
the state’s Department of Health, where, for compensation, meals and lodging
are provided for three or more unrelated persons, but not exceed to eight
persons. The owner of the parcel must live on the premises.
      BEDROOM. A portion of a dwelling unit that reasonably can be dedicated to
sleeping purposes.
      BILLBOARDS. A commercial sign which directs attention to a business,
activity, service, entertainment or a product not exclusively related to the
premises or property where such sign is located.
      BITUMINOUS/CONCRETE FACILITIES. A bituminous hot mix plant or a concrete
manufacturing plant that is operated in a gravel pit as an accessory use to the
extractive use.
      BLOCK. An area of land bounded by streets, exterior boundary lines and/or
bodies of water.
      BLUFF. A topographic feature such as a hill, cliff or embankment having
all of the following characteristics:
         (a)   Part or all of the feature is located in a shoreland area;
         (b)   The slope rises at least 25 feet above the ordinary high water
mark of the water body;
         (c)   The grade of the slope from the toe of the bluff to a point 25
feet above the ordinary high water level averages 30% or greater; and
         (d)   The slope must drain towards the water body.
      BLUFF IMPACT ZONE. A bluff and the land located within 20 feet inland
from the top of the bluff.
      BOARDING HOUSE. Same as BED AND BREAKFAST DWELLING.
      BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The Board, appointed by the City Council, to hear
appeals from actions of the Zoning Administrator and variance requests.
      BOAT ACCESS. A ramp, road or other conveyance on a lot which allows the
launching and removal of a boat with a vehicle and trailer.
      BOAT HOUSE. A structure designed and used solely for the storage of boats
or boating equipment.
      BREEZEWAY. A covered or enclosed walkway that physically connects two or
more buildings or structures. Shall not materially connect the two or more
buildings or structures.
      BREWERY. Manufactures, processes and warehouses malt liquor for wholesale
distribution in off-sale packages to retail liquor establishments and may
retail malt liquor product for on-site consumption in a taproom or for off-site
consumption as growlers. A brewer may not have an ownership interest in a
brewery licensed under M.S. § 340A.301, Subd. 6(d), as it may be amended from
time to time.
      BUFFER AREA. Land set aside in its natural state, enhanced by screening,
or containing topographical features designed to buffer the impacts of a more
intense land use on a less intense use such as between commercial and
residential uses.
      BUILDABLE AREA. Any site, lot, parcel or any portion thereof that does
not contain designated floodplain, wetlands or areas in excess of 25% slope.
      BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for storage, shelter or
occupancy.
      BUILDING ENVELOPE. The buildable area on any lot that is outside of the
setbacks.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance between the highest adjoining
ground level at the building or ten feet above the lowest ground level,
whichever is lower, and the highest point of a flat roof or average height
between the eaves and the highest ridge of gable, hip or gambrel roofs or ten
feet below the peak, whichever is higher.
      BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to a lot line or the ordinary high water
level at the required setback beyond which a structure may not extend.
      BUILDING PERMIT. A permit authorizing an applicant under this code to
undertake construction or other development activity.
      BULK SAMPLING OF MINERAL MANGANESE BY WATER EXTRACTION. A means of
extracting manganese deposits through water jet technology using on-site ground
water. Water is injected under pressure into the mineral zone; mineral-water
slurry is pumped to the surface and dewatered to recover mineral solids,
including manganese, iron ore and silica. The technique is otherwise known as
“borehole mining”, whereby mineral material is dislodged into particles,
transported in slurry water and extracted from the ground. BULK SAMPLING
PROJECTS are modest in scope and done to determine the viability of a full-
scale mining operation.
      BUTCHER SHOP/MARKET. A shop in which meat, poultry and fish are processed
and/or sold.
      CABINETRY SHOP. The business of producing wood products for retail sales.
      CAMPGROUND. Any area, whether publicly or privately owned, consisting of
designated campsites with appropriate facilities and management services
designed for temporary occupation by tents or recreational vehicles.
      CAMPGROUND MEMBERSHIPS. A land use under single ownership consisting of
designated campsite with appropriate facilities designed for temporary
occupation by members in tents or recreational vehicles with management
services and with site rentals by members. See also RECREATIONAL CAMPING AREA.
      CAMPING. Habitation of a temporary structure.
      CAMPSITE. A parcel within a resort or campground designated for the
occupancy of one family on a periodic basis in a tent or recreational vehicle.
      CARGO CONTAINER. A sealed receptacle of size and type commonly used for
shipping items via railroad or water vessels. A CARGO CONTAINER must be free of
visible rust and in overall good repair to be used as an accessory structure.
      CEMETERY. A place for burying the dead. A graveyard.
      CEMETERY, UNPLATTED. Any human remains or burials found outside of
platted, recorded or identified cemeteries pursuant to M.S. § 307.08, as it may
be amended from time to time.
      CERTIFIED HOME INSPECTION. An inspection completed by a licensed Building
Inspector and signed off by the same.
      CHAIRPERSON. The individual elected by the Planning Commission to chair
its meetings.
      CHILD CARE, CENTER. A facility that is maintained, for the whole or part
of the day, for the care of five or more children who are 18 years of age or
younger and who are not related to the owner, operator or manager thereof,
whether such facility is operated with or without compensation for such care
and with or without stated educational purposes. The term shall not include any
facility licensed as a foster care home or any facility defined as a “child
care, family home”.
      CHILD CARE, FAMILY HOME. A primary residence where, for the whole or part
of the day, an owner of the residence, licensed as a child care provider, cares
for five or more children who are 18 years of age or younger and who are not
related to the owner, whether such facility is operated with or without
compensation for such care.
      CHURCH. A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, where
persons regularly assemble for religious worship and which building, together
with its accessory buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a
religious body organized to sustain public worship and related community
activities.
      CITY CLERK/TREASURER. The appointed person responsible for administration
of the city affairs.
      CITY COUNCIL. The duly elected governing body of the city.
      CITY SEWER OR WATER SYSTEM. A system of municipally maintained utilities,
approved by the state and serving more than one building or property.
      CLEAR CUTTING. See VEGETATION REMOVAL, CLEAR CUTTING.
      CLUB, LODGE. A non-profit organization catering exclusively to members
and their guests.
      COMMERCIAL USE. The principle use of land or buildings for the sale,
lease, rental, trade of products, goods or services.
      COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources.
      COMMON OPEN SPACE. Undeveloped land within a conservation subdivision
that has been designated, dedicated, reserved or restricted in perpetuity from
further development and is set aside for the use and enjoyment by the residents
of the development. COMMON OPEN SPACE shall not be included as parts of
individual residential lots. The COMMON OPEN SPACE shall be substantially free
of structures, but may contain historic structures and archaeological sites
including Native American mounds and/or such recreational facilities for
residents as indicated on the approved development plan.
      COMMUNITY PARK. A park designed to provide recreational opportunities to
serve the entire community.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. Also referred to as COMMUNITY PLAN. A compilation of
policy statements, goals, standards and maps for guiding the physical, social
and economic development, both private and public, of the city and its environs
and may include, but is not limited to, the following items: statements of
policies, goals, standards, a land use plan, a community facilities plan, a
transportation plan and recommendations for plan execution.
      CONDITIONAL USE. A land use or development, as defined by this chapter,
that would not be appropriate without restriction, but may specifically be
allowed without restrictions of conditions as determined by the Planning
Commission and the Council upon a finding that:
         (a)   The use or development is an appropriate conditional land use in
the land use zone;
         (b)   The use or development, with conditions, conforms to the
Comprehensive Land Use Plan;
         (c)   The use, with conditions, is compatible with the existing
neighborhood; and
         (d)   The use, with conditions, would not be injurious to the public
health, safety, welfare, morals, order, comfort, convenience, appearance or
prosperity of the city.
      CONDOMINIUM OWNERSHIP or COMMON INTEREST COMMUNITY. A form of ownership
within a multi-owner building or complex wherein the boundaries are defined by
a condominium plan or common interest community in accordance with M.S. Ch.
515A or 515B, as they may be amended from time to time.
      CONSERVATION EASEMENT. A legally binding agreement that imposes any
limitation or affirmative obligation on any holder’s interest in real property.
The EASEMENT is typically held by a party other than the property owner. The
purpose of such an EASEMENT can include retaining or protecting natural, scenic
or open space values of real property, assuring the availability of real
property for agricultural, forest, recreational or open space use, protecting
natural resources, maintaining or enhancing air or water quality, preserving a
burial site or preserving the historical, architectural, archaeological or
cultural aspects of real property.
      CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION. A residential development that is characterized
by compact lots and the retention of common open space, where the natural
features of the land are maintained to the greatest extent possible.
      CONTIGUOUS. The sharing of a common border at more than a single point.
Lots, parcels or boundaries may be considered contiguous where separated by
rights-of-way, rivers or streams.
      CONTROLLED ACCESS LOT. Any lot which is designated for the exclusive use
by non-riparian landowners within a subdivision as a means to gain access to a
lake, river or stream.
      CONVENTIONAL SUBDIVISION. A residential development that contains more
than two lots not done by conservation design.
      COTTAGE FOOD INDUSTRY VENDORS. As regulated by M.S. § 28A.152.
      COUNCIL. The City Council, as established by state law.
      CRAWL SPACE. The space below the first story of a structure not more than
four feet high and not intended for human habitation.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A vehicular turnaround.
      DBH. Diameter at breast height. The width of a tree or shrub as measured
at four and one-half feet above the ground surface.
      DECK. An above grade, uncovered, unscreened structure not including walks
four feet wide or less.
      DEVELOPMENT ENVELOPE. Designated area in which grading, lawns, pavement
and buildings are planned to be located.
      DOCK. A platform extending water ward from the shoreline intended for
ingress and egress for moored watercraft or to provide access to water for
swimming, fishing or other water orientated activities.
      DRAINAGEWAY. A watercourse, gully, dry stream, creek or ditch which
concentrates and carries storm/rain water runoff from the land in a manner
which creates the potential for significant erosion, siltation, flooding or
ponding. A DRAINAGEWAY may be fed by natural overland flow or by constructed
means, such as culverts, road ditches, outlets of storm water treatment ponds
or other similar facilities.
      DUPLEX, TRIPLEX or QUAD. A structure on a single lot having two, three or
four dwelling units respectively being attached by common walls, and each being
equipped with separate sleeping, cooking, eating, living and sanitation
facilities.
      DWELLING, GUEST QUARTERS. A structure, not for sale or lease, used as a
dwelling unit that may contain sleeping spaces and kitchen and bathroom
facilities in addition to those provided in the primary dwelling on the lot.
Any accessory structure with kitchen or bathroom facilities shall be considered
a DWELLING, GUEST QUARTERS.
      DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. Two or more dwelling units attached together by
any point including duplexes, triplexes, townhouses and multi-level units
regardless of type of ownership.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A dwelling unit totally separated from any other
dwelling unit.
      DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE. A type of multi-family housing consisting of
dwelling units attached by common party walls. Ownership may be defined by plat
or condominium plan.
      DWELLING UNIT. A structure or portion of a structure or other shelter
designed as a short or long-term living quarters for one or more persons
including rental or time share accommodations such as a motel, hotel resort
rooms, resort cabins and apartments.
      DWELLING WIDTH. The smallest horizontal dimension of the major portion of
a dwelling.
      EARTH TONE. A shade of color that, when viewed from a distance, blends
with the colors of the surrounding landscape.
      EAW. An environmental assessment worksheet, as defined by M.S. Ch. 116,
as it may be amended from time to time.
      EIS. An environmental impact statement, as defined by M.S. Ch. 116, as it
may be amended from time to time.
      EVENT CENTER. A building rented out for gatherings such as, but not
limited to, weddings, meetings, etc.
      EXTERIOR STORAGE. Storage of goods, materials, equipment, manufactured
products outside a fully enclosed building.
      EXTRACTIVE USE. The use of land for removal of sand, gravel, rock,
industrial minerals, other non-metallic minerals or peat not regulated under
M.S. §§ 93.44 to 93.51, as they may be amended from time to time.
      FACILITY. A structure, building or appurtenance that allows an activity
(i.e., parking facility).
      FAMILY. An individual, or two or more persons related by blood, marriage,
adoption or a relationship legally recognized in the state, or not more than
five unrelated persons maintaining a common household.
      FARM MACHINERY SALES AND REPAIR. An open or enclosed area (building or
structure), other than a street, used for the display, sale, rental or repair
of new and used farm machinery.
      FEEDLOT. A lot or building or combination of lots and buildings intended
for the confined feeding, breeding, raising or holding of animals and
specifically designed as a confinement area in which manure may accumulate, or
where the concentration of animals is such that a vegetative cover cannot be
maintained within the enclosure. Open lots used for the feeding and rearing of
poultry (poultry ranges) shall be considered to be ANIMAL FEEDLOTS. Pastures
shall not be considered ANIMAL FEEDLOTS.
      FEE SCHEDULE. The official schedule of land use related fees and
penalties adopted by the City Council.
      FENCE. A constructed barrier intended to prevent escape or intrusion, or
to mark a boundary, to shield or screen view, or to perform any similar
function.
      FILLING. The act of depositing any earthen material.
      FINAL FLOOR PLAN. A drawing prepared by a registered architect,
registered engineer or registered land surveyor depicting the condominium
subdivision of real estate and related information conforming to the
requirements of M.S. § 515A.2-110, as it may be amended from time to time.
      FINAL CONDOMINIUM PLAT. A drawing prepared by a registered architect,
registered engineer or registered land surveyor depicting the condominium
subdivision of real estate and related information conforming to the
requirements of M.S. § 515A.2-110, as it may be amended from time to time.
      FINAL PLAT. A drawing, in final form, showing a proposed subdivision
containing all information and detail required by state statutes and by the
Subdivision Ordinance to be presented to the Planning Commission and the City
Council for approval, and which, if approved, may be duly filed with the County
Recorder.
      FISH HOUSE. A structure placed on a lake during the winter for use in
fishing. A structure will only be considered a FISH HOUSE if it is 160 square
feet or less, is moveable and has a current license.
      FITNESS CENTER. A building intended for exercise and to offer training
classes, such as but not limited to, yoga and mixed martial arts.
      FLOODPLAIN. The areas adjoining a watercourse, intermittent or
permanently flowing, which have been or will be covered by the runoff waters of
a storm with a 1% chance of occurrence any year (100-year storm).
      FLOODWAY. The channel of the watercourse and those portions of the
adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the
regional flood (100-year chance of occurrence).
      FOOTPRINT. The horizontal extent to which a structure covers the ground
plane as represented in a plan view including cantilevered building elements,
but excluding eaves and similar architectural projections of the roof plane.
      FORB. A broad leafed, non-woody plant other than grass, sedge or rush.
FORBS include native herbs, ephemerals and wildflowers.
      FOREST LAND CONVERSION. The clear cutting of forested lands to prepare
for a new land use other than the re-establishment of a subsequent forest
stand.
      FOUNDATION. A concrete, concrete and concrete block, or treated wood
portion of a structure that supports the bearing loads of the superstructure
and penetrates the ground providing frost protection. Must meet the provisions
of the Building Code adopted by the state. Concrete pillars may be used as a
FOUNDATION for manufactured homes so long as the installation is done to the
manufacturer’s specifications and skirting is provided around the perimeter to
provide the look of a completely enclosed FOUNDATION.
      FRONTAGE. The uninterrupted front boundary line of a lot, or the length
of such line, that abuts on a street or protected water.
      FUEL DEPOT, BULK. Bulk storage of oil, gasoline, liquid fertilizer,
chemicals and similar liquids in excess of 2,500 gallons
      GARAGE, ATTACHED. A part of the principle structure designed for the
storage of motor vehicles.
      GARAGE, DETACHED. An accessory structure not attached to the principle
structure on the property designed and used for storage.
      GARAGE SALE. A sale of used household belongings, typically held outdoors
or in a garage at the home of the seller.
      GAS STATION. An establishment beside a road selling gasoline, oil and/or
food.
      GAZEBO. A freestanding accessory structure with no kitchen, sleeping,
sanitary facilities or pressurized water intended as weather and insect
protection for such activities as picnicking and lake viewing.
      GOLF COURSE. An area of land laid out for the game of golf with a series
of nine or 18 holes each including tee, fairway, and putting green and often
one or more natural or artificial hazards. A GOLF COURSE may include food,
liquor, and retail sales.
      GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS. A structure used for public services such as, but
not limited to, fire halls, post office, police stations, city halls, etc.
      GRADING. The movement of dirt, by mechanical means, so as to alter the
existing topography of a property.
      GREEN SPACE. Privately-owned property permanently dedicated by covenant
or deed restriction to vegetate ground coverage with allowance for use as
recreational facilities, tree coverage, watercourse, sewage disposal or similar
uses. Public property permanently dedicated to park, vegetative buffer, tree
coverage or watercourses.
      GROCERY STORE. A store that sells food and household supplies.
      GROSS ACREAGE. The total area of a parcels.
      GROUP CARE FACILITIES. A facility which provides residential services for
individuals that are handicapped, aged, disabled or undergoing rehabilitation.
This includes uses such as homes for the physically handicapped, mentally
retarded, chemically dependent, foster children, maternity shelters and half-
way houses. The facility is indistinguishable in outward appearance from a
residential dwelling. The owner lives on the premises.
      HANDICAP RAMP. A temporary structure that allows access to a dwelling as
per physician’s prescription.
      HOME OCCUPATION. A use of commercial nature conducted by an occupant
entirely within the dwelling or accessory buildings which use is clearly
incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes
and does not change the residential character thereof.
      HOME OCCUPATION, TYPE I. A home occupation, the commercial nature of
which involves providing a service to a limited number of people who are
predominantly acquaintances. Generates less than ten auto trips per week. No
employees beyond owner. No signage or other advertising done either on or off-
site. Would include businesses that are similar in nature to tutoring or music
lessons performed on an individual basis.
      HOME OCCUPATION, TYPE II. A home occupation, the commercial nature of
which involves providing a service to people or organizations that do not
receive the service at the property from which is it being provided. Generates
less than 25 auto trips per week, including deliveries and employees. No more
than two employees, in addition to the owner, working on site. No signage done
either on or off-site. Would include businesses that are similar in nature to
telephone sales, consulting or web design.
      HOME OCCUPATION, TYPE III. A home occupation, the commercial nature of
which involves providing a service or product to people or organizations within
the home. Generates less than 60 auto trips per week, including deliveries. No
more than two employees, in addition to the owner working on site. May include
on-site signage. May include retails sales of items manufactured on-site. Would
include businesses that are similar in nature to chiropractic service, artist
studio or craft shop.
      HOME OCCUPATION, TYPE IV. A home occupation, the commercial nature of
which involves providing a service or product to people or organizations off
site. Generates less than 60 auto trips per week, including deliveries. All
employees do the majority of their work off-site. May include on-site storage
or warehousing of work related materials. Would include businesses that are
similar in nature to lawn care services and off-site sandblasting services.
      HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION (HOA). A community association, incorporated or
not incorporated, combining individual home ownership with shared use or
ownership of common property and/or facilities.
      HOTEL. A building containing three or more individual rooms, used for
overnight lodging by the general public on a short-term basis for a fee, with
or without meals, and which has common reservation and cleaning services,
combined utilities and on-site management and reception services.
      HOUSE OF WORSHIP. Same as CHURCH.
      ICE RIDGE. A long, narrow crest of earth along the shoreline that has
been created by the movement of ice on the lake.
      ICE RIDGE, HISTORIC. An ice ridge that has been in existence 12 months or
longer.
      ICE RIDGE, PERENNIAL. An ice ridge that has existing less than 12 months.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. The horizontal area of buildings, patios, walks,
driveways, accessory structures and other surfaces generally impervious to the
penetration of storm water, including gravel drives and parking.
      INDUSTRIAL USE. The use of land or buildings for the production,
manufacture, warehousing, storage or transfer of goods, products, commodities
or other wholesale items.
      INTENSIVE VEGETATION CLEARING. The complete removal of trees or shrubs in
a continuous path, strip row or block.
      INTERVAL OWNERSHIP. Form of ownership of real property, condominium land
or space further defined by a reoccurring time interval, resulting in more than
one owner of the same property. Also known as TIMESHARE.
      ISTS. Individual sewage treatment system.
      JUNK VEHICLE. A vehicle that: is extensively damaged, with the damage
including such things as broken or missing wheels, motor, drive train or
transmission; is apparently inoperable; does not have a valid, current
registration plate; and has an approximate fair market value equal only to the
approximate value of the scrap in it.
      JUNK YARD. An area where used waste, discarded or salvaged materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, cleared, parked, disassembled or
handled, including, but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper,
rags, rubber products, bottles and used building materials. Storage of
materials in conjunction with the construction of a manufacturing process shall
not be included. Three or more automobiles without current licenses constitute
a JUNK YARD. Such use shall not include putrid wastes such as garbage.
      LAKE ACCESS CORRIDOR. The designated area within the shore impact zone
that is utilized to traverse between the water body and the building site on
the property.
      LAKE CLASSIFICATION. The formal classification provided by the Department
of Natural Resources for each body of public waters within the city.
      LANDSCAPING. Plantings and placements such as trees, grass, shrubs and
decorative timbers, arbors, rocks and water displays.
      LEASEBACK BY OWNER. An arrangement between an owner of property and a
leasing agent or resort to promote and operate the property for rental
purposes.
      LEED. Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design of the United States
Green Building Council.
      LICENSED ENGINEER. A person licensed as a professional engineer by the
state.
      LICENSED SEWAGE TREATMENT INSPECTOR. A person licensed by the state to
inspect sewage treatment systems.
      LICENSED SURVEYOR. A person licensed as a professional surveyor by the
state.
      LIGHT INDUSTRIAL. An industry using equipment similar to that which could
reasonably be found in an individual’s garage or home workshop.
      LIGHT MANUFACTURING. A manufacturing operation which uses small equipment
in its process, similar to equipment which might be found in an individual’s
home or garage.
      LITTER. Waste materials including, but not limited to, cans, bottles,
plastic and paper wrappings or containers.
      LOT. A parcel, piece or portion of land described by metes and bounds,
registered land survey, auditor’s plat or subdivision plat and separated from
other parcels or portions of land by said description for purposes of sale,
lease, mortgage, building or separation.
      LOT AREA. The horizontal area of a lot bounded by the lot lines and the
ordinary high water line if bounded by water.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two or
more intersecting streets or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of
one street with the internal angle less than 135 degrees.
      LOT, FRONT. The boundary of a lot which abuts on a public right-of-way
or, if a corner lot, the shortest of the two boundaries. If the lot abuts
public water, the lake side shall be considered the LOT FRONT.
      LOT LINE. The property lines bounding a lot; except that, where the
description extends into a public right-of-way, the right-of-way line shall be
considered the LOT LINE.
      LOT, PRE-EXISTING. A lot which is one unit of a subdivision plat
heretofore duly approved and filed or one unit of an auditor’s subdivision, or
registered land survey, or a lot created by metes and bounds that has been
recorded in the office of the County Recorder prior to the effective date of
this chapter.
      LOT TIER DEPTH. The lot depth of a normal lot conforming to the shoreland
requirements:
         (a)   General Development Lake:
            1.   First tier: 200 feet; and
            2.   Second and additional tiers: 267 feet.
         (b)   Recreational Development Lake: 267 feet; and
         (c)   Natural Environmental Lake: 400 feet.
      LOT TIERS. Successive strips of land parallel with the ordinary high
water line, each one tier depth wide and extending across the parcel.
      LOT WIDTH. The shortest distance between lot lines measured at the
midpoint of the building line.
      MAINTENANCE. The normal upkeep of a structure including the replacement
of windows, siding, roofs, non-bearing walls or interior remodeling that does
not expand the footprint of the existing structure, add volume to the usable
living space or intensify a non-conforming use.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling, transportable in one or more sections,
meeting the requirements of the state.
      MARINA. A dock or set of docks on a single parcel that contains more than
three slips or more slips than first tier dwelling units, whichever is greater.
      MATURE TREE. A living tree greater than four inches in diameter.
      METES AND BOUNDS. A method of property description utilizing directions
and distances commencing from and terminating at an identifiable point.
      MINI STORAGE FACILITY, SELF SERVICE. A building or group of buildings in
a controlled access compound that contains varying sizes of individual,
compartmentalized stalls or lockers for the storage of customer’s goods or
wares.
      INTERIM USE. A temporary use of property until a particular date, until
the occurrence of a particular event, or until zoning regulations no longer
permit it.
      MOBILE HOME. See definition of MANUFACTURED HOME.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. A form of planned unit development designed for mobile
homes, including two possible types of ownership: single ownership with site
rentals; or individual site ownership with a homeowner’s association owning
common property.
      MOTEL. A building containing guest rooms or units, each of which has a
separate entrance directly from the outside of the building, or corridor, with
parking space reserved for each unit, and which is designed, used or intended
to be used primarily for the accommodation of transient guests.
      NATURAL DRAINAGEWAY. All land surface areas which, by nature of their
contour or configuration, collect, store and channel surface or runoff water.
      NEIGHBORHOOD. The area adjacent to or surrounding existing or proposed
development characterized by common use or uses, density, style and age of
structures and environmental characteristics.
      NON-CONFORMING. The building, structure or land lawfully existing prior
to and not in conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
      NON-PROFIT CONSERVATION ORGANIZATION. Any charitable corporation,
charitable association or charitable trust (such as a land trust), the purposes
or powers of which include retaining or protecting the natural, scenic or open
space values of real property, assuring the availability of real property for
agricultural, forest, recreational or open space use, protecting natural
resources, maintaining or enhancing air or water quality, or preserving the
historical, architectural, archaeological or cultural aspects of real property.
      NUISANCE. By authority and direction of M.S. § 412.221, Subd. 23 and 24,
as they may be amended from time to time,, any thing that interferes with the
use or enjoyment of property, endangers personal health or public safety, or is
offensive to the senses such as excessive smoke, odor, noise, heat, vibration,
glare, traffic generation, visual impact and other similar interferences or
offenses.
      NURSERY. A business growing and selling trees, flowering or decorative
plants and shrubs.
      NURSING HOME. Any institution or facility required to be licensed as such
under M.S. §§ 144.50 to 144.56, as they may be amended from time to time, by
the state’s Board of Health.
      OFF-STREET PARKING. A designated space or area of land with a paved or
all-weather surface not within a public street or right-of-way and used for the
parking of vehicles.
      OPEN DISTRICT. A zoning district defined by natural features to be
unsuitable for any dwelling and unsuitable for any other development, except in
accordance with the conditional use permit process. Corresponds to the DNR
Special Protection District.
      OPEN SPACE. Space designated as reserved from development.
      OPEN STORAGE. Storage of material outside of a building.
      ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK (OHW). The boundary of public waters and
wetlands consisting of an elevation delineating the highest water level which
has been maintained for sufficient period of time to leave evidence on the
landscape, commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes form
predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial. For watercourses, the
ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is the elevation of the top of the bank of the
channel; for reservoir and flowages, the ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is the
operating elevation of the normal summer pool.
      OUTDOOR MARKET. A temporary market held outdoors including the use of
temporary vendor stands or other structures open to the public including
farmers markets, craft markets, and vendors of other miscellaneous goods and
services. Outdoor markets do not include civic events or auxiliary events
hosted by businesses.
      OVERLAY MAP. An official map of the city that describes the location of
an overlay zone.
      OWNER. An individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership,
corporation, trust or any other legal entity having proprietary interest in the
land and/or building.
      PARENT PARCEL. The existing parcel of record, as identified by individual
parcel numbers, as of the effective date of this chapter, that is proposed to
be developed.
      PARK MODEL TRAILER. A travel trailer at least eight feet wide and 200
square feet but, no larger than 400 square feet, that lacks holding tanks and
dual-voltage appliances, requiring it to be connected to water, sewage, and
electrical facilities in order to function as a dwelling.
      PARKING SPACE. A ten-foot by 20-foot site off public right-of-way,
maintained and sized to accommodate the parking of one automobile.
      PARK MODEL TRAILER. See definition of RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
      PARTY WALL OR FLOOR. A common wall which divides two independent dwelling
units or businesses.
      PARK COMMITTEE. The committee duly appointed by the City Council to
oversee and make recommendations on parks and recreation issues within the
city.
      PASSIVE RECREATION. Outdoor activities that include walking, hiking,
cross-country skiing, horseback riding and other non-motorized outdoor
recreational activities that do not materially alter the landscape, degrade
environmental quality or involve commercial recreational use.
      PATIO. An uncovered, unscreened platform (without railings) of wood or
cement which is no more than one step (16-inch maximum) above grade at its
highest point. It may adjoin a dwelling or may be unattached and freestanding.
      PERMITTED USE. A land use conforming to the character of a zoning
district which is allowed by ordinance requiring only a zoning permit issued by
the Zoning Administrator.
      PET. An animal commonly associated with human habitation, not considered
under animal units and not raised for production of income.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A land use characterized by a unified
site design for a number of dwelling units or dwelling sites on a parcel,
whether for sale, rent or lease, and also usually involving clustering of these
units or sites to provide areas of common green space, density increases and
mix of structure types and land uses. Does not include a duplex where
specifically allowed in a zoning district on a single parcel of land.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS, COMMERCIAL. Uses that provide transient,
short-term lodging spaces, rooms or parcels and their operation are essentially
service orientated. These shall include, but not be limited to, hotel/motel
accommodations, resorts, recreational vehicle and camping parks and other
primarily service-oriented activities.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT, RESIDENTIAL. A use where the nature of
residency is non-transient and the major or primary focus of the development is
not service-oriented. For example, residential apartments, manufactured home
parks, townhouses, cooperatives and full-fee ownership residences would be
considered as RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS. Includes time share
condominiums not part of a resort.
      PLANNING COMMISSION. The body duly appointed by the City Council to
determine the development of the city and make recommendations to the City
Council on comprehensive plans, zoning district boundaries, conditional use
permits, subdivision of land and capital improvements.
      PORCH. A covered platform attached to a structure.
      PORTABLE. Capable of being transferred or moved from one place to
another.
      PRE-BUILT HOME. Same as MANUFACTURED HOME.
      PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES. The property owner proposes to use the property
in a reasonable manner not permitted by an official control; the plight of the
landowner is due to circumstances unique to the property not created by the
landowner; and the variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of locality. Economic considerations alone do not constitute PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTIES. PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES include, but are not limited to,
inadequate access to direct sunlight for solar energy systems.
      PRELIMINARY PLAT OR PLAN. A plan prepared in accordance with the
Subdivision Ordinance depicting the proposed subdivision of property by final
plat or final floor plan.
      PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE OR USE. The single primary structure or use on a lot,
as distinguished from accessory uses or structure. To be considered a PRINCIPLE
STRUCTURE, the structure must be at least 400 square feet.
      PRIVY. An aboveground structure with an underground cavity meeting the
requirements of Minn. Rules Part 7080.0172, subpart 2, that is used for the
storage or treatment and disposal of toilet wastes, excluding water for
flushing and grey water.
      PRIVY, PORTABLE. A temporary structure provided and maintained by a
state-licensed individual that is designed for temporary handling of waste.
      PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Restrictions placed on the property by the owner
and duly filed with the County Recorder. These may also be used in planned unit
developments to establish homeowners associations, restrict shoreline
development and provide for common facilities.
      PUBLIC WATERS. Any waters as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, Subd. 15 and 16,
as they may be amended from time to time. However, no lake, pond or flowage of
less than ten acres in size in municipalities need be regulated for the
purposes of the shoreland management rule. A body of water created by a private
user where there was no previous shoreline may, at the discretion of the local
government, be exempted from the shoreland management. The official
determination of the size and physical limits of drainage areas of rivers and
streams should be made by the DNR Commissioner.
      RECORDER. The County Recorder of Crow County.
      RECREATIONAL CENTER. A structure or other facility designed for the
purpose of recreation, such as a movie theater, bowling center, meeting hall,
teen center or community center.
      RECREATIONAL SALE/SERVICE. Engaging in the business of selling, offering
for sale, repairing or servicing, buying or taking in trade for the purpose of
resale, recreational equipment, such as, but not limited to boats and ATVs for
profit.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Vehicles for recreational use that can be driven,
towed or hauled. These vehicles are designed to be temporary living space for
camping or travel use. RVs shall include travel trailers, camper trailers,
truck campers, self-propelled motor homes, fish houses licensed as a
recreational vehicles and other similar vehicles.
      RESORT. Any buildings, structures or enclosures kept, used, maintained or
advertised as, or held out to the public to be an enclosure where sleeping
accommodations are furnished to the public and primarily to those seeking
recreations, for periods of one day, one week or longer, and having for rent
three or more cottages, rooms or enclosures along with any related facilities
such as restaurants, bars, golf courses or other recreational amenities.
      RESTAURANT. An establishment where the principle business is the
preparation, service and sale of food and beverages to be consumed by customers
at tables or counters located within the building on the premises.
      RETAIL STORE. A place of business usually owned and operated by a
retailer, but sometimes owned and operated by a manufacturer or by someone
other than a retailer, in which merchandise is sold primarily to ultimate
consumers
      RETREAT CENTER. A structure offered for rent to hobby groups on a short-
term basis, not exceeding one week.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A parcel of property dedicated to the public, connecting to
other public rights-of-way, which affords primary access by pedestrians and
vehicles to abutting properties.
      SATELLITE DISH. A dish antenna used to receive and transmit signals
relayed by satellite.
      SCREENING. Fencing, an earthen berm or vegetative growth that visually
separates one object from another.
      SEMI PUBLIC USE. The use of land by private non-profit organizations to
provide a public service that is ordinarily open to some persons outside the
regular constituency of the organization.
      SENSITIVE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT. The preservation and management of areas
unsuitable for development in their natural state due to constraints such as
shallow soils over ground water or bedrock, highly erosive or expansive soils,
steep slopes, acceptability to flooding or occurrence flora or fauna in need of
special protection.
      SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure, sewage
treatment system or other facility and an ordinary high water level, sewage
treatment system, top of bluff, road, highway, property line or other facility.
Three feet of roof overhang, stoops not exceeding 30 square feet and steps from
stoop to ground not over four feet wide may protrude into the setback.
      SETBACK, ROAD. The closest horizontal distance between the road right-of-
way line and the foundation or wall of a structure. Three feet of roof
overhang, stoops not exceeding 30 square feet and steps from stoop to ground
not over four feet wide may protrude into the setback.
      SETBACK, WATERFRONT. The closest horizontal distance between the ordinary
high water mark and the foundation or wall or edge of a structure. Three feet
of roof overhang, stoops not exceeding 30 square feet and steps from stoop to
ground not over four feet wide may protrude into the setback.
      SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM. A septic tank and soil absorption system or
other individual or cluster type sewage treatment system as described and
regulated in Minn. Rules Ch. 7080.
      SEWER SYSTEM. Pipe lines or conduits, pumping stations and force main and
all other constructions, devices, appliances or appurtenances used for
conducting sewage or industrial waste or other waste to a point of ultimate
disposal.
      SHORE IMPACT ZONE. Land located between the ordinary high water level of
a public water and a line parallel to it at a setback of 50% of the normal
required structure setback.
      SHORELAND. Land located within the following distances from public water:
1,000 feet from the ordinary high water level of a lake, pond or flowage; and
300 feet from a river or stream, or landward extent of a floodplain designated
by ordinance on a river or stream, whichever is greater. The limits of
SHORELANDS may be reduced whenever the waters involved are bounded by
topographic divides which extend landward from the water for lesser distances
and when approved by the DNR Commissioner.
      SHORELINE PROPERTY. A lot directly abutting a public water, generally
located in the first lot tier adjoining the public water.
      SIGNS. A name, identification, description, display, illustration,
advertisement or device which is displayed for the purpose of attracting
attention to a person, product, place, activity, institution or business.
      SIGNS, DIRECTORY. A sign erected at an intersection that lists the
residences or businesses that reside along the intersecting roadway.
      SIGNS, OFF-SITE. Any sign not located on the contiguously-owned property
with the use which is advertised.
      SIGNS, ON-SITE. Any sign located on the contiguously-owned property with
the use which is advertised.
      SIGNS, PORTABLE. A sign that is intrinsically designed to be moved or a
sign that is not permanently affixed to the ground or a building.
      SIGNS, SIZE. The total square footage, measured by multiplying the entire
length (including borders) by the entire height (including borders) of the
sign. The height of monument signs is measured from the ground: pylon, wall and
other signs are measured from the bottom of the main sign encasement.
      SIGNIFICANT HISTORICAL SITE. Any archeological site, standing structure
or other property that meets the criteria for eligibility to the National
Register of Historical Places, or is listed in the state’s Register of
Historical Sites or is determined to be an unplatted cemetery that falls under
the provisions of M.S. § 307.08, as it may be amended from time to time. A
HISTORICAL SITE meets this criteria if it is presently listed on either
register or if it is determined to meet the qualifications for listing after
review by the state’s Archeologist or the Director of the state’s Historical
Society. All unplatted cemeteries are automatically considered to be
SIGNIFICANT HISTORICAL SITES.
      SKETCH PLAN. A plan drawn to scale used for planning and discussion
purposes only.
      SMALL ENGINE REPAIR. The commercial repair of boat, ATV, motorcycle, or
similar engines.
      SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, GROUND-MOUNT. A solar energy system mounted on a
rack or pole that sits on the ground or has its own foundation and is not
attached to a building and that is accessory to the principal land use,
designed to supply energy for the principal use on the site.
      SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, ROOFTOP. A solar energy system mounted on the roof
of a building and is accessory to the primary land use, designed to supply
energy for the primary use.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS (ADULT USE). Any less than completely and
opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region or pubic hair, buttocks and
female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola; and human
male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if opaquely covered.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES (ADULT USE). Any of the following conditions:
         (a)   An act of sexual intercourse, normal or perverted, actual or
simulated, including genital-genital, anal-genital or oral-genital intercourse,
whether between human beings or between a human being and an animal;
         (b)   Sadomasochistic abuse, meaning flagellation or torture by or
upon a person who is nude or clad in undergarments or in a revealing costume or
the condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restricted on
the part of one so clothed;
         (c)   Masturbation or lewd exhibitions of the genitals including any
explicit, close-up presentation of a human genital organ clothed or unclothed;
and/or
         (d)   Physical contact or simulated physical contact with the clothed
or unclothed pubic area or buttocks of a human male or female, or the breasts
of a female, whether alone or between numbers of the same or opposite sex or
between humans and animals in an act of apparent sexual stimulation or
gratification.
      SSTS. Subsurface Sewage Treatment System.
      STEEP SLOPE. Land where agricultural activity or development is either
not recommended or described as poorly suited due to slope steepness due to the
site’s soil characteristics as mapped and described in available county soils
surveys or other technical reports, unless appropriate design and construction
techniques and farming practices are used in accordance with the provisions of
these regulations. Where specific information is not available, STEEP SLOPES
are lands having average slopes over 12% as measured over horizontal distances
of 50 feet or more, but which are not bluffs.
      STOOP. An entry platform into a structure.
      STORAGE BUILDING, COMMERCIAL. A structure used for the storage of
belongings, equipment or materials that is not intended for human habitation,
and is available on a rental or lease basis.
      STORAGE SHED. Refer to ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.
      STORY. The part of a building included between the surface of one floor
and the surface of the next floor or, if there is no floor above, then the
ceiling next above. A basement shall not be counted as a STORY.
      STREET. A public right-of-way that provides primary vehicular access to
abutting property and shall include avenue, road or highway. Street
classifications are defined in the Comprehensive Plan unless defined in a
roadway classification plan or other similar road specific plan.
         (a)   STREET, ARTERIAL. A street that has the primary function of
rapidly move traffic to or through the city. May provide access to abutting
land. ARTERIAL STREETS are, in general, county or state highways that begin and
terminate outside of the city limits or connect to other arterial streets
within the city.
         (b)   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street that has the primary function of
receiving and distributing traffic to and from local streets and providing
distribution of traffic within. May provide access to abutting lots. In
general, COLLECTOR STREETS begin and terminate at arterial streets or other
collector streets.
         (c)   STREET, LOCAL. A street, the function of which is to provide
localized access to individual parcels. Does not normally carry through
traffic. Traffic volumes and traffic speeds are expected to be low.
      STRUCTURE. Any building, appurtenance including decks or other facility
constructed, placed or erected by humans, except aerial or underground utility
lines such as sewer, electric, telephone, telegraph, gas lines and except walks
or steps on grade not more than four feet wide outside of the shore impact
zone, stoops not exceeding 30 square feet, temporary furniture, planter or
decorative material and retaining walls consisting of wood or decorative block.
      SUBDIVIDER. The owner, agent, person, corporation, partnership or legal
entity proposing to subdivide property under his or her control.
      SUBDIVISION. The division of real estate into two or more parcels for the
purpose of sale, rent or lease, including planned unit development.
      SUBDIVISION BY CONDOMINIUM PLAN. The subdivision of a building or the
subdivision of real estate into two or more spaces or parcels of any size by
the authority of M.S. Ch. 515A, as it may be amended from time to time, with
documents prepared by a registered land surveyor and duly approved by the
Planning Commission and Council.
      SUBDIVISION BY METES AND BOUNDS. Any division of real estate resulting in
two or more parcels which are not platted, but divided by description prepared
and signed by a registered land surveyor.
      SUBDIVISION BY PLAT. The subdivision into two or more parcels of any size
by the authority of M.S. Ch. 505, as it may be amended from time to time, with
documents prepared by a registered land surveyor and duly approved by the
Planning Commission and Council.
      SUBSTANDARD LOT. A lot that is non-conforming.
      SUBSTANDARD USE. A use that does not conform to this chapter.
      SURFACE WATER-ORIENTED COMMERCIAL USE. The use of land for commercial
purposes where access to and use of a surface water feature is an integral part
of the normal operation of business. Marinas, resorts and restaurants with
transient docking facilities are examples of such use.
      TAPROOM. A room that is ancillary to the production of malt liquor at a
brewery where the public can purchase and/or consume only the malt liquor
produced on site. A TAPROOM may also sell malt liquor for off-sale consumption
in growler containers.
      TEMPORARY. A use or structure that lasts longer than three days and is
discontinued within 14 days. Any use or structure existing longer than 14 days
in the Downtown Mixed-Use District - including semi-truck trailers or similar
mobile units used as accessory structures for commercial purposes - is required
to be approved through the conditional use permit process, except where
specifically provided for in this chapter. 501(c)(3) businesses and uses are
exempt from any permit application fee for such use.
      TEMPORARY COMMERCIAL STRUCTURE. A transportable building or structure
placed on private property for the purpose of conducting a commercial activity.
      TEMPORARY COMMERCIAL STRUCTURE, LONG TERM. A portable structure placed on
property to be used for a commercial purpose, such as a semi-trailer, utility
trailer or portable food stands, placed on property for longer than 30 days in
a calendar year.
      TEMPORARY COMMERCIAL STRUCTURE, SHORT TERM. A portable structure placed
on property to be used for a commercial purpose such as a semi-trailer, utility
trailer or portable food stands, placed on property for longer than three days
but less than 30 days within a calendar year.
      TEMPORARY RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE or USE. A use or structure on property
for more than three days and discontinued within 30 days within a one-year
period. A one-time extension of an additional 30 days may be permitted by the
Zoning Administrator. Any use or structure existing longer than the permitted
allowance on one-year period, except where specifically provided for in this
chapter shall be considered permanent.
      TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. A structure of a temporary character including, but
not limited to, house boats, fish houses, recreational vehicles and tents.
      TOE OF BLUFF. The lower point of a 50-foot segment with an average slope
exceeding 18%.
      TOP OF THE BLUFF. The higher point of a 50-foot segment with an average
slope exceeding 18%.
      TOWER, TELECOMMUNICATION. Structures 35 feet or more in height that may
include a tower, antenna(s), equipment building(s), anchor points and other
related equipment used by broadcast services and/or wireless telecommunications
services.
      TOWNHOUSE DWELLING. See DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY.
      TRAVEL TRAILER. Refer to RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
      TREE. A woody plant four inches or more in diameter or eight feet or more
in height.
      VARIANCE. A legally permitted deviation from the provisions of this
chapter as deemed necessary by the Board of Adjustment.
      VEGETATION REMOVAL, CLEAR CUTTING. The removal of more than 75% and up to
100% of a stand of trees and brush over ten feet in height on a lot or parcel
of land up to 40 acres.
      VEGETATION REMOVAL, OPEN CUTTING. The removal of more than 25% and up to
75% of a stand of trees and brush over ten feet in height on a lot or parcel of
land up to 40 acres.
      VEGETATION REMOVAL, SELECT CUTTING. Removal of dead, diseased or damaged
trees or shrubs, removal of trees for placement of structures and drives, and
further removal of only individual trees to uniformly thin up to 25% of a
stand, on a lot or parcel of land up to 40 acres. Complete brush removal is
allowable including trees under ten feet in height.
      VEGETATION REMOVAL, STEEP SLOPES. Removal of dead, diseased or damaged
trees or shrubs and further removal of only individual trees to uniformly thin
up to 25% of a stand, on a lot or parcel of land with a bluff. Brush removal is
only allowable where required to a accommodate stairways, lifts and landings.
      VIEW TO THE LAKE. View to be construed to be the line of site from the
center of a riparian property at the lake setback to the lakeward concerns of
that property.
      WAREHOUSING. The principle use is the storage of materials or equipment
within an enclosed building.
      WAREHOUSING, COMMERCIAL. The rental or sale of warehousing space.
      WATERCRAFT SALES AND REPAIR. An open or enclosed area (building or
structure), other than a street, used for the display, sale, rental or repair
of new and used watercraft in operable condition. Watercraft may include
motorboats, personal watercraft and non-motorized watercraft.
      WATER-ORIENTED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR FACILITY. A small above ground
building or other improvement, except stairways, fences, docks and retaining
walls, which because of the relationship of its use to a surface water feature
is located closer to public waters than the normal structure setback. Examples
of such structures and facilities include boat houses, gazebos, screen houses,
fish cleaning houses and detached decks.
      WECS - WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM. An electrical facility comprised of
one or more wind turbines and accessory facilities including, but not limited
to: power lines, transformers, substations and meteorological towers, which
operate by converting the kinetic energy or wind into electrical energy. The
energy may be used on-site or distributed into an electrical grid.
      WETLAND. Lands transitional between terrestrial and aquatic systems where
the water table is usually at or near the surface or the land is covered by
shallow water. For the purposes of this definition, WETLANDS must have the
following three attributes:
         (a)   Have a predominance of hydric soils;
         (b)   Are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of hydrophytic
vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions; and
         (c)   Under normal circumstances support a prevalence of such
vegetation.
      WIND TURBINE. A wind turbine is any piece of electrical generating
equipment that converts the kinetic energy of blowing wind into electrical
energy through the use of airfoils or similar devices to capture the wind.
      YARD. A required green space occupied and unobstructed by a structure or
portion of a structure; provided that, fences, signs, utility poles, lawn
lights, antenna and related minor equipment may be permitted in any yard;
provided that, they do not create a safety hazard or constitute a nuisance.
      YARD SALE. Same as GARAGE SALE.
      ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The duly appointed person responsible for the
enforcement and administration of this chapter.
      ZONING DISTRICT. An area of the city defined on the zoning map, having
uniform zoning provisions.
      ZONING DISTRICT OVERLAY. A zoning district containing regulations
superimposed upon other zoning district regulations and superceding the
underlying zoning district regulations.
      ZONING MAP. The map of the city, amended from time to time, which defines
the boundaries of the zoning districts.
      ZONING PERMIT. A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator to allow the
construction of a structure or to allow a land use when the provisions of this
chapter have been met, when approval of any conditional use permits or
variances have been granted and when the fees are paid. A ZONING PERMIT may
have administrative conditions specific to the subject site when called for by
this chapter.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011; Ord. 906-2012, passed 5-8-2012; Ord. 906-202,
passed 5-8-2012; Ord. 906, passed 4-12-2016, Ord. 906, 1st Series, passed 5-9-
2017; Ord. 906, 2nd Series, passed 12-11-2018; Ord. passed - -; Ord. 01-22,
passed 3-8-2022; Ord. 04-22, passed 4-12-2022; Ord. 23-04, passed 11-14-2023)
Editor’s note:
   This section was amended at public hearings on 3-7-2012 and 4-4-2012.
§ 152.004 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum
requirements for the maintaining of the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   Where the provisions of this chapter are either more restrictive or
less restrictive then applicable provision of other laws, ordinances, statutes,
resolutions, covenants or regulations of any kind, the more restrictive
condition, standard or requirement shall prevail, except as authorized by the
more restrictive agency.
   (C)   Except as this chapter specifically provides, no structure shall be
erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or altered and no structure or land
shall be used for any purpose nor in any manner which is not in conformity with
this chapter.
   (D)   Any existing structure or use of property subject to conditions of
approval for a variance, conditional use permit or other land use application
must have a land use certificate of compliance issued within 12 months of the
approval, unless an extension is granted under §
152.155 of this chapter. The land use certificate of compliance, when issued,
shall state that the building or use appears to be in compliance with the
conditions of approval.
   (E)   The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to any subdivision
of property within the city after the effective date of this chapter.
      (1)   Subdivision by plat or condominium plat shall be in accordance with
§§
152.130 through
152.140 of this chapter and shall be approved by the Planning Commission and
City Council.
      (2)   Subdivision by metes and bounds shall be subject to approval by the
Planning Commission in accordance with §§
152.130 through
152.140 of this chapter if either of the resulting parcels is less than ten
acres or 500 feet of width and shall be limited to no more than one split of a
parcel into two parcels in a three-year period of time. An additional parcel
for right-of-way or commonly-owned driveway access may also be allowed. The
proposed legal description for subdivision of land by metes and bounds shall be
prepared and certified by a registered land surveyor. Approval by the city
shall be indicated by the stamp of approval affixed by the City Clerk/Treasurer
to said legal description. The County Recorder or Registrar of Deeds may accept
each such certificate for filing and recording upon compliance with these
provisions.
      (3)   Subdivision by metes and bounds shall be subject to approval, in
accordance with §§
152.130 through
152.140 of this chapter, by the Planning and Zoning Administrator if both of
the resulting parcels are greater than ten acres and 500 feet of width. Such
subdivisions shall be limited to no more than one split of a parcel into two
parcels in a three-year period of time. The proposed legal description for
subdivision of land by metes and bounds shall be prepared and certified by a
registered land surveyor. Approval by the city shall be indicated by the stamp
of approval affixed by the City Clerk/Treasurer to said legal description. The
County Recorder or Registrar of Deeds may accept each such certificate for
filing and recording upon compliance with these provisions.
   (F)   Ambiguities in this chapter shall be resolved by interpretation of the
Planning and Zoning Administrator. If an applicant wishes to appeal the
interpretation of the Administrator, an appeal can be made through a hearing of
the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.005 ENVIRONMENTAL DOCUMENTS AND CONCURRENT PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be the property owner’s responsibility to secure necessary
concurrent permits such as Pollution Control Agency, state waste disposal
permits; Health Department permits; DNR planned unit development permits; Corps
of Engineers Permits, DNR public water permits; and DNR water appropriation
permits. Approval by the city does not imply approval by other agencies.
   (B)   The city will prepare an environmental assessment worksheet (EAW)
where a proposed project exceeds the limits defined in the Environmental
Quality Council’s rules and regulations for environmental review program or as
requested by the Planning Commission or petitioned by the public.
   (C)   The administration of an EAW or EIS shall be in accordance with the
rules and regulations of the state’s Environmental Quality Board. The Zoning
Administrator shall be responsible to the City Council and have the authority
to administer the environmental document. The Planning Commission shall review
each document and make recommendations to the City Council whose decision shall
be final.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.006 USE OF PRE-EXISTING LOTS.
   (A)   A lot in the Neighborhood Residential Zone, created prior to the
effective date of this chapter, shall be considered buildable without requiring
a variance for lot area or lot width. All other bulk and density standards
still apply.
   (B)   A non-conforming single lot of record located within a shoreland area
may be allowed as a building site without variances from lot size requirements;
provided that:
      (1)   All structure and septic system setback distance requirements can
be met;
      (2)   A Type 1 sewage treatment system consistent with Minn. Rules Ch.
7080 and the city’s SSTS regulations, can be installed or the lot is connected
to a public sewer; and
      (3)   The impervious surface cover does not exceed the requirements of
the underlying zone.
   (C)   In a group of two or more contiguous lots of record under a common
ownership, an individual lot must be considered as a separate parcel of land
for the purpose of sale or development, if it meets the following requirements.
      (1)   The lot must be at least 66% of the dimensional standard for lot
width and lot size for the shoreland classification consistent with Minn. Rules
Ch. 6120;
      (2)   The lot must be connected to a public sewer, if available, or must
be suitable for the installation of a Type 1 sewage treatment system consistent
with Minn. Rules Ch. 7080 and the city’s SSTS regulations;
      (3)   Impervious surface coverage must not exceed the requirements of the
underlying zone; and
      (4)   Development of the lot must be consistent with the city’s
Comprehensive Plan.
   (D)   A lot subject to division (C) above not meeting the requirements of
division (C) above must be combined with the one or more contiguous lots so
they equal one or more conforming lots as much as possible.
   (E)   Notwithstanding division (C) above, contiguous non-conforming lots of
record in shoreland areas under a common ownership must be able to be sold or
purchased individually if each lot contained a habitable residential dwelling
at the time the lots came under common ownership and the lots are suitable for,
or served by, a sewage treatment system consistent with the requirements of
Minn. Rules Part 115.55 and Minn. Rules Ch. 7080, or connected to a public
sewer.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.007 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES AND USES.
   Any structure or use legally existing upon the effective date of the
adoption of this chapter and which does not conform to the provisions of this
chapter may be continued subject to the following.
   (A)   No such structure or use shall be expanded, enlarged or intensified,
except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter and division (B)
below, with consideration for variances thereto and consideration given for
previously approved planned unit developments.
   (B)   A one-time addition to a non-conforming principle structure shall be
permitting subject to the following.
      (1)   The non-conformity is due solely to setbacks.
      (2)   The addition is not within the shore impact zone.
      (3)   The addition will not encroach further into any setback.
      (4)   The size of the addition shall not exceed 50% of the size of the
structure it is being added to.
      (5)   The total footprint of the structure, once the addition is
completed, shall not exceed 2,500 square feet, including decks, porches, patios
and other projections.
      (6)   For reasons of structural integrity, a basement may be allowed
under the addition only where a basement exists in the original structure.
      (7)   Additional screening is provided to screen the addition as viewed
from adjacent properties, public roads and the surface water.
      (8)   A storm water management plan is implemented that directs storm
water away from adjacent properties and surface waters.
      (9)   The height of the addition shall not exceed the height of the
existing structure.
      (10)   Beyond minor alterations needed to accommodate the addition, no
structural modifications shall be made to the original structure.
      (11)   No permits shall be granted under this provision for homes
constructed after 7-1-1995 or where a previous variance has been approved.
      (12)   All other provisions of this chapter must be complied with.
   (C)   Where a parcel is voluntarily redeveloped to the extent that 50% or
more of the footprint building area, above the foundation, on the parcel, is
removed, all non-conforming structures on the parcel must be modified to
conform to this chapter.
   (D)   If a non-conforming structure is damaged, by any cause, to an extent
where the repair costs exceed 50% of its assessed value immediately prior to
damage, the structure may be replaced with a structure of exact dimensions
provided a permit is applied for within 180 days of when the property was
damaged. Where no land use permit has been applied for within 180 days of when
the property was damaged, then the structure or its replacement shall
thereafter conform to this chapter.
   (E)   Any non-conformity, including the lawful use or occupation of land or
premises existing at the time of the adoption of this chapter, may be
continued, including through repair, replacement, restoration, maintenance or
improvement so long as the structure or use is not expanded. Replacement of a
non-conforming structure will not be allowed where the non-conformity or
occupancy has been discontinued for a period of one year or more. Any
structural repairs or replacement of non-conforming structures shall require a
land use permit.
   (F)   A lawful, non-conforming use may be changed to lessen the non-
conformity of use. Once a non-conforming use has been changed, it shall not
thereafter be altered to increase the non-conformity.
   (G)   In evaluating all variances, zoning and building permit applications,
or conditional use requests, the zoning authority shall require the property
owner to address, when appropriate, storm water runoff management, reducing
impervious surfaces, increasing setback, restoration of wetlands, vegetative
buffers, sewage treatment and water supply capabilities and other conservation-
designed actions.
   (H)   Sewage treatment systems shall be upgraded to a conforming status in
conformance with the following schedule:
      (1)   Upon issuance of any permit or variance for any improvement on, or
use of, the property;
      (2)   Upon determination that leakage to the surface or lake or into an
adjacent well is occurring, or determination that the system is discharging
into the ground at an elevation less than three feet above the highest known
watertable;
      (3)   Upon determination by Zoning Administrator that a system is
inadequate for a change in occupation or use in the structure;
      (4)   Upon notice by the Zoning Administrator that the city’s records
indicate the system is non-conforming; and
      (5)   Upon availability of a community sewer system to the property,
connection to that system shall be made regardless of the conformance or non-
conformance of the individual system.
   (I)   Existing water orientated structures, including boathouses and sheds,
may be replaced with a permit on the same parcel; provided that:
      (1)   There shall be no increase in horizontal dimensions. The maximum
square footage shall not exceed 248 for a rebuilt structure;
      (2)   The structure must not exceed ten feet in height and must have a
minimum of a 4:12 pitched roof;
      (3)   The structure must meet a minimum setback of ten feet from the
ordinary high water mark and 20 feet from the adjacent property;
      (4)   The structure must be treated to significantly reduce the
visibility, as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands, through the
use of vegetation, topography and/or color, assuming summer, leaf-on
conditions;
      (5)   The structure shall be used for storage only and may not include
elements designed for human habitation; and
      (6)   Storm water runoff from the structure shall be drained away from
the lake. There shall be no direct flow of storm water from the structure to
adjacent water bodies.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.008 BUILDING STANDARDS.
   (A)   All structures and appurtenances shall be constructed in accordance
with the state’s Building Code. The city does not examine plans, inspect
dwellings for conformance with any state codes nor assume liability for the
structural stability or quality of any structures.
   (B)   All dwelling units shall be a minimum of 20 feet wide, 576 square feet
in area and shall be placed on a foundation.
   (C)   No building shall be placed closer than ten feet from any other
structure, unless designed to meet the fire separation requirements of the
state codes.
   (D)   Any new structure constructed or placed after the date of this chapter
and not on a permanent foundation shall be considered a temporary structure.
   (E)   Manufactured homes and mobile homes shall be installed by a licensed
installer and a copy of the installation compliance certificate shall be
submitted to the city prior to occupancy of the dwelling.
   (F)   For dwellings to be moved onto a property, excluding manufactured
homes that have never been occupied, the following shall be applicable.
      (1)   Prior to permit issuance, the property owner shall provide
documentation of a certified home inspection including the following, at a
minimum:
         (a)   Certification that the electrical wiring meets state codes;
         (b)   Certification that the plumbing meets state codes;
         (c)   An evaluation of foundation adaptability and condition;
         (d)   An evaluation of roof condition;
         (e)   An evaluation of structural integrity; and
         (f)   Certification that all doors, windows and siding are in
acceptable condition.
      (2)   The dwelling, once in place, must meet all municipal ordinances,
with consideration given for approved variances.
   (G)   Temporary handicap ramps may be extended for a period longer than 14
days; provided, a copy of the physician’s prescription is provided to the city.
The ramp may be located on the subject property until the expiration of the
prescription.
   (H)   Sewage treatment systems shall conform to the state’s Pollution
Control Agency Standards, Minn. Rules Ch. 7080.
   (I)   Any public or private supply of water for domestic purposes must meet
or exceed standards for water quality of the state’s Department of Health and
the MPCA.
   (J)   Plumbing and electrical facilities installed after the date of this
chapter in all structures shall conform to the state’s Plumbing Code and
Electrical Code, respectively.
   (K)   The provisions of this chapter were prepared to be at least as
restrictive as the Statewide Standards for ‘Management of Shoreland Areas’,
effective 7-3-1989. Where the conditions of the shoreland standards are more
restrictive, or in case of oversight, exclusion or question in this chapter,
the shoreland standards shall govern, except for applications involving non-
conforming uses or other applications approved by the Commissioner.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.009 IMPROVEMENT.
   (A)   Prior to the submission of a final plat application and prior to
approval of a metes and bounds subdivision, the subdivider shall provide for
the construction of the required improvements at their expense and shall have
the work completed or shall enter a development contract and give bond or other
financial assurance satisfactory to the Council in an amount equal to 125% of
the estimated cost of the uncompleted improvements, except as provided in
division (C) below. The bond shall be released by the City Council upon the
recommendation of the City Engineer indicating the improvements are
satisfactorily complete.
   (B)   The required improvements shall conform to the standards of §§
152.130 through
152.140 of this chapter and shall include street cross-section, signs and
lighting in conformance with adopted city standards.
   (C)   The subdivider may request the city to construct municipal sewage
facilities, municipal water facilities or bituminous street surfacing with all
costs to be assessed against the benefitted properties. If the City Council
agrees, the subdivider shall enter a development contract and give a bond or
other financial assurance satisfactory to the Council in an amount equal to 50%
of the estimated costs. The assessments shall be paid in full upon sale of the
property.
   (D)   All costs of the City Engineer, City Attorney, Bond Council, financial
experts and other professional costs borne by the city in writing and/or
executing development contracts, estimates of cost, inspectors, financial
arrangements, assessments and pursuing legal remedies in event of default by
the subdivider, shall be borne by the subdivider or their successors.
   (E)   Before final release of the bond, record drawings shall be provided by
the applicant documenting final locations of improvements.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.010 LIABILITY OF CITY OFFICIALS.
   The failure of any officer of the city’s Planning and Zoning Commission/
Board of Adjustment or employees of the city to act pursuant to this chapter,
except as an individual acting in his or her own behalf, shall not be an
offense and shall not subject the officer, Board or employee to any penalty.
The city shall not be liable for the problems arising from reliance on lot
corners, legal descriptions or other information provided by the property
owner.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.011 EQUITABLE RELIEF.
   In the event of a violation or threatened violation of any provision of this
chapter or the conditions of any permit issued pursuant to the ordinance, the
city, in addition to other remedies, may act or institute action to prevent,
restrain, correct or abate such violation or threatened violation.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.012 SEPARABILITY.
   Every section, provision or part of this chapter or any permit issued
pursuant to this chapter is declared separable from every other section,
provision or part thereof to the extent that if any section, provision or part
of this chapter or any permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be held
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, it shall not invalidate any other
section, provision or part thereof.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.013 SUPREMACY.
   When any condition implied by this chapter on the use of land or buildings
is more restrictive or less restrictive than applicable conditions imposed by
statute, rules and regulations, other city ordinance or regulation or other
jurisdiction, the more restrictive shall apply. This chapter does not abrogate
any easements, restriction or covenants imposed on the land by private
declaration or agreement, but where such provisions are less restrictive than
an applicable of this chapter, this chapter shall prevail.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.014 EFFECTUATION.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage by
the City Council and subsequent publication.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.015 AMENDMENT.
   (A)   General. The City Council may adopt amendments to either the Zoning
Ordinance, Zoning Map or Overlay Maps in relation to the land uses within a
district or the boundaries of the district(s) by the most restrictive
majorities allowed by state statute. Such amendments shall not be issued
indiscriminately, but shall only be used as a means to reflect changes in the
goals of the community or changes in the conditions of the city.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   An amendment may be initiated by the Council, the Planning
Commission or by any property owner.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the proposed changes and make
a recommendation to the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall make a reasonable attempt to cause
all property owners within a minimum of 350 feet of proposed zoning district
change to be notified by regular mail and shall publish a hearing notice for
either a zoning district change or zoning ordinance change in the legal section
of the official newspaper and shall provide notice to the DNR at least ten days
ahead of the public hearing. The Planning Commission shall hold the hearing and
make a timely recommendation to the City Council. Adoption of a new Zoning map
shall require published notice only. The Planning Commission shall consider the
criteria for land use categories, §
152.030 of this chapter, in its decision.
      (4)   The City Council shall review the recommendations and shall make a
timely decision. An amendment requires a majority vote to be enacted, except
where all or part of the existing classification of a zoning district is to be
zoned from residential to either commercial or industrial. In that instance, a
two-thirds majority is required.
      (5)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall publish a summary of the text of the
change or description of boundary change or a new Zoning map, whichever is
appropriate, in the official newspaper within 30 days after action by the
Council.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.016 NOTICES.
   Failure to receive notice called for by this chapter shall not invalidate
any action taken by the city so long as the city acted reasonably in its
attempt to provide such notice.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.017 LAKE CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   The City Council may adopt multiple shoreland classifications to a
single body of water by resolution. Such resolution shall not be passed
indiscriminately, but shall only be adopted upon a determination that such
action is necessary to address a unique situation.
   (B)   The procedure for making a determination on the necessity of a
multiple lake classification is as follows.
      (1)   A study of the water body shall be initiated by the City Council.
The Planning Commission or any property owners may petition the Council for
such a study. A petition shall not compel the Council to proceed.
      (2)   Prior to commencing a study of the water body, the Commission shall
be notified of the city’s intent to commence the study.
      (3)   The study shall be prepared by the Zoning Administrator and
overseen by the Planning Commission. The study shall examine the following:
         (a)   Determine whether the lake has an irregular natural shoreline
configuration, possesses bays, arms, islands, peninsulas or points, or the lake
has been artificially segmented by roadways, railways, bridges or levees. If
none of these conditions exist, multiple shoreland classification shall not be
applied to the lake.
         (b)   Where the conditions of division (B)(3)(a) above exist, a
recommendation shall be made as to the appropriate lake classification for each
segment identified in division (B)(3)(a) above. The recommendation shall be
based on references to the following:
            1.   The records and files of the Department of Natural Resources,
including maps, lists, and other products of the Protected Waters Inventory;
            2.   Data and publications of the DNR Shoreland Update Project;
            3.   DNR Bulletin No. 25 (1968);
            4.   Supplementary Report No. 1 - Shoreland Management
Classification System for Public Waters (1976) of the Division of Waters;
            5.   Minnesota’s Lakeshore, part 2, Statistical Summary, Department
of Geography, University of Minnesota; and
            6.   Any additional supporting data supplied by the Commissioner.
      (4)   Upon receipt of the study, the Planning Commission shall cause all
property owners within a minimum of 500 feet of the shoreline proposed to be
reclassified to be notified by regular mail and shall publish a hearing notice
for in the legal section of the official newspaper and shall provide notice and
proposed reclassification to the DNR at least ten days ahead of the public
hearing. The Planning Commission shall hold the hearing and make a
recommendation to the City Council.
      (5)   The City Council shall review the recommendation and shall make a
timely decision. A majority vote to reclassify shall be done by resolution.
      (6)   Where a resolution to reclassify is adopted, the City Clerk/
Treasurer shall forward the resolution to the Commissioner for review and
approval. Multiple shoreland classifications are subject to review and approval
by the Commissioner.
      (7)   Where approved by the Commissioner, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall
publish a description of reclassified area or a map showing the change,
whichever is appropriate, in the official newspaper within 30 days of a
response from the DNR. Where a reclassification is denied, the City Clerk/
Treasurer shall notify all property owners identified in division (B)(4) above
of the Commissioner’s decision.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.018 LAND USE FEES.
   Applicable fees are established in below. No permit shall be issued or
request brought before the Board of Adjustment or Planning Commission until the
fees are paid. All applications where the work has already started shall
require the payment of the late permit fee or the after-the-fact fee as
outlined in the ordinance adopting a schedule of fines and fees on file in the
city offices. All fees imposed by this section are contained in the ordinance
adopting a schedule of fines and fees on file in the city offices.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011; Ord. 906, 1st Series, passed 5-9-2017)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 152.030 GENERAL.
   (A)   The city is hereby divided into zoning districts as shown on the
official zoning district map, which may be subsequently amended by the
procedures of §
152.015 of this chapter.
   (B)   The boundaries are generally on the center or a set distance from the
edge of streets, on lot lines, on shorelines (OHW), on the center of streams or
rivers, on the edge of wetlands and following the contours of the land.
   (C)   The following districts are hereby established:
Commercial Transition/Light Industrial CT
Downtown Mixed-Use                     DM
Forest Preservation                    FP
Forest Residential                     FR
Highway Mixed Use                      HMU
Neighborhood Residential               NR
Open Space                             OS
Recreation                             REC
Rural Preservation                     RP
Shoreline Commercial                   SC
Shoreline Residential                  SR
Water Resource                         WR
 
   (D)   The lakes, rivers and streams in the city have been classified as
follows:
Natural Environment (NE)
   Allen Lake         18-208
   Andrews Lake       18-214
   Anna Lake          18-213
   Buchite Lake       18-215
   Davis Lake         18-217
   Grass Lake         18-230
   Minnie Lake        18-210
   Pickerel Lake      18-205
   Pug Hole Lake      18-209
   Un-named (Section 318-216
   Un-named (Section 318-219
   All streams
Recreational Development (RD)
   Blue Lake          18-211
   Butterfield Lake   18-231
   East Wood Lake     18-221
   Papoose Lake       18-206
   Smokey Hollow Lake 18-220
   Little Emily Lake  18-207
   Trout Lake         18-218
   Wood Lake          18-222
   Little Pine River
General Development Lake (GD)
   Dahler Lake        18-204
   Emily Lake         18-203
   Mary Lake          18-185
   Roosevelt Lake     11-43
   Ruth Lake          18-212
 
   (E)   The jurisdiction of this chapter shall include all property within the
city municipal limits.
   (F)   All uses are considered prohibited unless specifically allowed in this
chapter, even if they are not listed specifically under excluded uses.
   (G)   The following land use criteria shall be considered when establishing
a zoning classification or amending the official zoning map:
      (1)   Conformance to the city’s Comprehensive Plan;
      (2)   Preservation of natural sensitive areas;
      (3)   Present ownership and development;
      (4)   Shoreland soil types and their engineering capabilities;
      (5)   Presence of rare plant and animal species;
      (6)   Topographic characteristics;
      (7)   Vegetative cover;
      (8)   In-water physical characteristics;
      (9)   Recreational use of surface water;
      (10)   Road and service center accessibility;
      (11)   Public costs, both direct and indirect, of development consistent
with the proposed zone;
      (12)   Availability of public sewer;
      (13)   The necessity to reserve and restore areas having significant
historical or ecological value;
      (14)   Conflicts between land uses and impacts of commercial uses or
higher densities on adjacent properties;
      (15)   Alternative(s) available for desired land use; and
      (16)   Prevention of spot zoning.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.031 OPEN SPACE DISTRICT (OS).
   (A)   Intent and purpose. To establish and maintain a land use district for
the preservation of sensitive areas, unique resources and designated non-
developable property.
   (B)   Lot, use and density requirements (OS). The setbacks of the most
restrictive adjacent zoning district shall apply. There is no minimum lot size.
   (C)   Mixed zone lots (OS). For a lot crossing the Open Space District
boundary into another zoning district, the minimum lot size shall be the same
as the other zoning district with no area credit given for the Open Space
District area.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.032 FOREST PRESERVATION (FP).
   (A)   Intent and purpose. To establish and maintain a land use district that
provides for the sustainable management of forests for scenic beauty,
ecological function, wildlife habitat, timber harvesting and passive
recreation.
   (B)   Lot and use requirements (FP).
 Upland GD Lake RD Lake ND Lake
                                                 Upland GD Lake RD Lake ND Lake
Animal unit per acre - maximum                   1      1       1       1
Building above highest ground water level -      3      3       3       3
feet, minimum
Building height, accessory structure - feet,     25     25      25      25
maximum
Building height, dwelling - feet, maximum        25     25      25      25
Impervious coverage - percent maximum            10%    10%     10%     5%
Lot area - acres, minimum                        20     20      20      20
Lot width - feet, minimum                        500    500     500     500
Setback, corner side - feet, minimum             75     75      75      75
Setback, ISTS system from OHW - feet, minimum    150    75      100     150
Setback, OHW of lake - feet, minimum             200    100     150     200
Setback, rear yard - feet, minimum               30     30      30      30
Setback, right-of-way, city road - feet, minimum 50     50      50      50
Setback, right-of-way, county and state road -   50     50      50      50
feet, minimum
Setback, side yard - feet, minimum               30     30      30      30
Setback, sign - feet, minimum                    1      1       1       l
Setback, un-platted cemetery or archeological    50     50      50      50
site - feet, minimum
Setback, wetland - feet, minimum                 50     50      50      50
 
   (C)   Performance standards (FP).
      (1)   Screening consisting of native trees and shrubs covering a minimum
of 75% of the setback area (leaf-on conditions) is required in the road setback
and within 50-foot lake, river, stream, wetland and bluff buffers in order to
retain the scenic beauty and rural character as viewed from roads and lakes.
      (2)   The Best Management Practices in Minnesota for Water Quality in
Forest Management, State Department of Natural Resources, shall hereby be
adopted as the standard for timber management in forested areas.
      (3)   Pre-existing commercial uses normally found in commercial areas
shall be required to meet the performance standards in the CT District.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.033 FOREST RESIDENTIAL (FR).
   (A)   Intent and purpose. To establish and maintain a land use district that
provides for the sustainable management of forests for scenic beauty,
ecological function, wildlife habitat, timber harvesting and passive recreation
as well as to provide for low density, residential development not served by
municipal infrastructure.
   (B)   Lot and use requirements (FR).
 Upland GD Lake RD Lake ND Lake
                                                 Upland GD Lake RD Lake ND Lake
Animal unit per acre - maximum                   l      1       1       1
Buildable lot area - acres                       10     10      10      10
Building above highest ground water level -      3      3       3       3
feet, minimum
Building height, accessory structure - feet,     25     25      25      25
maximum
Building height, dwelling - feet, maximum        25     25      25      25
Impervious coverage - percent maximum            10%    10%     10%     596
Lot width - feet, minimum                        400    400     400     400
Setback, corner side - feet, minimum             75     75      75      75
Setback, OHW of lake - feet, minimum             200    100     150     200
Setback, rear yard - feet, minimum               30     30      30      30
Setback, right-of-way, city road - feet, minimum 30     30      30      30
Setback, right-of-way, county or state road -    50     50      50      50
feet, minimum
Setback, side yard - feet, minimum               30     30      30      30
Setback, sign - feet, minimum                    l      l       l       1
Setback, un-platted cemetery or archeological    75     75      75      75
site - feet, minimum
Setback, wetland - feet, minimum                 50     50      50      50
 
   (C)   Performance standards (FR).
      (1)   Screening consisting of native trees and shrubs covering a minimum
of 75% of the setback area leaf-on conditions) is required in the road setback
and within 50-foot lake, river, stream, wetland and bluff buffers in order to
retain the scenic beauty and rural character as viewed from roads and lakes.
      (2)   The Best Management Practices for Minnesota for Agriculture and
Water Quality, State Pollution Control Agency, shall hereby be adopted as the
standard for agricultural uses.
      (3)   The Best Management Practices in Minnesota for Water Quality in
Forest Management, State Department of Natural Resources, shall hereby be
adopted as the standard for timber management in forested areas.
      (4)   Pre-existing commercial uses normally found in commercial areas
shall be required to meet the performance standards in the CT District.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.034 RESERVED.
§ 152.035 SHORELINE RESIDENTIAL (SR).
   (A)   Intent and purpose. To establish and maintain a land use district for
riparian residential development that preserves the natural shoreline.
   (B)   Lot and use requirements (SR).
 GD Lake RD Lake NE Lake
                                                        GD Lake RD Lake NE Lake
Animal unit per acre-maximum                            0       0       0
Buildable lot area, dwelling, single-family - square    20,000  40,000  80,000
feet, minimum
Buildable lot area, dwelling, guest quarters - square   40,000  80,000  160,000
feet, minimum
Building above highest ground water level - feet,       3       3       3
minimum
Building height, accessory structure - one story not to 18      18      18
exceed - feet, maximum
Building height, dwelling - feet, maximum               25      25      25
Impervious coverage, non-first tier - maximum           20%     20%     15%
Impervious coverage, first tier - maximum               20%     20%     15%
Lot width at OHW - feet, minimum                        100     150     200
Lot width at OHW, guest quarters - feet, minimum        180     225     300
Lot width at building setback - feet, minimum           100     150     200
Setback, corner side - feet, minimum                    30      30      30
Setback, ISTS from OHW - feet, minimum                  75      100     150
Setback, OHW of lake - feet, minimum                    75      100     150
Setback, right-of-way, city road - feet, minimum        20      20      20
Setback, right-of-way, county or state road, feet,      50      50      50
minimum
Setback, side yard - feet, minimum                      10      10      10
Setback, sign - feet, minimum                           l       l       1
Setback, top of bluff - feet, minimum                   30      30      30
Setback, un-platted cemetery or archeological site -    50      50      50
feet, minimum
Setback, wetland - feet, minimum                        25      25      25
 
   (C)   Performance standards (SR).
      (1)   Screening.
         (a)   Generally. Screening consisting of native trees and shrubs
covering a minimum of 75% of the area (leaf-on conditions) is required in the
shore impact zone, bluff impact zone and wetland setback in order to retain the
scenic beauty and rural character as viewed from lakes. To obtain a permit in
this district, a revegetation plan acceptable to the Zoning Administrator shall
be required for existing properties that do not meet this standard.
         (b)   Screening, alternate approach. As an alternative to the
screening requirements of division (C)(1)(a) above, a property owner seeking a
permit may opt to discontinue turf maintenance (mowing) within the shore impact
zone and allow the natural vegetation to reestablish in this area. An area to
provide access to the lake can be maintained so long as it does not exceed 10%
of the width of the lot or 15 feet in width, whichever is less.
      (2)   Dwelling, guest quarters. For lots that meet the minimum
requirements in division (B) above in regards to guest quarters, a guest
quarters may be constructed in accordance with the following restrictions:
         (a)   Shall be located along with the principal structure on the
smallest lot meeting the above requirements.
         (b)   Shall be a minimum of 400 square feet and maximum of 600 square
feet and shall not exceed 15 feet in height;
         (c)   Shall be located to reduce its visibility as viewed from public
waters and adjacent shorelands; and
         (d)   Shall be screened to reduce its visibility as viewed from public
waters and adjacent shorelands by vegetation, topography, increased setback,
color or other uses acceptable to the city, assuming summer leaf-on conditions.
      (3)   Dwelling, guest quarters - alternate approach. All lots that meet
the minimum requirements of division (B) above in regards to single-family
dwellings, or meet the requirements of §
152.006 of this chapter, a guest quarters may be constructed in accordance with
the following limitations.
         (a)   The total number of bedrooms on the property shall not exceed
five.
         (b)   The impervious coverage requirements of division (B) above must
be met.
         (c)   The building height of an accessory structure may be increased
to 25 feet where necessary to accommodate a second-story dwelling unit.
         (d)   The guest house shall be located to reduce its visibility as
viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands.
         (e)   The guest house shall be screened to reduce its visibility as
viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by vegetation, topography,
increased setback, color or other uses acceptable to the city, assuming leaf-on
conditions.
      (4)   Stairways, lifts and landings. Stairways and lifts are the only
accepted method for achieving access up and down bluffs and steep slopes to
shore areas. Topographic alteration to obtain access is not allowed. Stairways,
lifts and landings must meet the following design requirements.
         (a)   Stairways and lifts must not exceed four feet in width on
residential lots. Wider stairways may be used for commercial properties, public
open-space recreational properties and planned unit developments.
         (b)   Landings for stairways and lifts on residential lots must not
exceed 32 square feet in area.
         (c)   Canopies or roofs are not allowed on stairways, lifts or
landings.
         (d)   Stairways, lifts and landings may be either constructed above
the ground on posts or pilings or placed into the ground; provided, they are
designed and built in a manner that ensures control of soil erosion.
         (e)   Stairways, lifts and landing must be located in the most
visually inconspicuous portions of lots, as viewed from the surface of the
public water assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, whenever practical.
         (f)   Facilities such as ramps, lifts or mobility paths for physically
handicapped persons are also allowed for achieving access to shore areas;
provided that, the dimensional and performance standards of divisions (C)(4)(a)
to (C)(4)(e) above are complied with.
      (5)   Fertilizer and pesticides. Use of fertilizer and pesticides in the
shoreland impact zone or setback must be done in such a way as to minimize
runoff into the shore impact zone or public water by the use of earth,
vegetation or both.
      (6)   Impervious coverage. Impervious coverage may be increased by 5% if
the following is provided:
         (a)   A storm water retention plan be submitted showing containment of
the five-year, 24-hour storm event on the parcel; and
         (b)   Direct runoff of storm water to adjacent water bodies, including
wetlands and adjacent parcels, shall be eliminated through the use of berms,
filtration strips, swales or other permanent means.
      (7)   Construction. During construction, no material or temporary soil
deposits shall be placed within the drip line of any existing tree to be
preserved. Drip lines shall be delineated by snow-fencing or silt-fencing
during construction. No equipment shall operate within six feet of any
preserved tree, nor shall such equipment be operated at any time in such a
manner as to break, tear, bruise or otherwise injure any living or dormant tree
to be preserved.
      (8)   Establishment of primary use. All garages permitted without
principle dwelling units shall have adequate buildable area for a principle
dwelling unit, a sewer treatment system and a well. Applicants for garages
without principle dwelling units shall submit a sewer design by a licensed
designer for the future principle structure before obtaining a permit.
      (9)   Outside storage. Storage of one fish house, not licensed as a
recreational vehicle, is allowed if stored not less than ten feet distance from
any property line and not within the OHW setback.
      (10)   Fences. Fences not exceeding 72 inches in height may be
constructed except within the OHW setback area. Fences not exceeding 36 inches
may be constructed within the OHW setback area so long as the fencing is
transparent. Under no circumstances shall a fence be constructed closer than
ten feet from the surface of a public road. Materials shall consist of usual
fencing materials with posts and fence of metal, wood, concrete, brick or
smooth wire. Barbed or electrified wire is prohibited.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011; Ord. 906-2011, passed 4- -2011; Ord. 906-2011,
passed 4- -2011; Ord. 906, 1st Series, passed 5-9-2017; Ord. passed - -; Ord.
03-22, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 152.036 NEIGHBORHOOD RESIDENTIAL (NR).
   (A)   Intent and purpose. To establish and maintain a land use district for
developed, non-riparian properties, for properties with infrastructure in place
to provide for higher density development, and properties developed as a rural
neighborhood cluster. This zoning classification is non-riparian.
   (B)   Lot and use requirements (NR).
Buildable lot area - acres, minimum                                2
Building above highest ground water level - feet, minimum          3
Building height, accessory structure - feet, maximum               25
Building height, dwelling - feet, maximum                          25
Impervious coverage - percent maximum                              20%
Lot width - feet, minimum                                          100
Maximum animal unit per acre                                       l
Maximum density (acres/unit)                                       l
Maximum density, rural conservation subdivision (acres/unit)       1
Setback, corner side - feet, minimum                               30
Setback, rear - feet, minimum                                      10
Setback, right-of-way, city road - feet, minimum                   30
Setback, right-of-way, county or state road - feet, minimum        50
Setback, side yard - feet, minimum                                 10
Setback, sign - feet, minimum                                      1
Setback, un-platted cemetery or archeological site - feet, minimum 50
Setback, wetland or stream - feet, minimum                         50
 
   (C)   Performance standards (NR).
      (1)   Dwelling, guest quarters. Guest quarters must meet the following
restrictions:
         (a)   Shall be located along with the principal structure on the
smallest lot meeting the above requirements; and
         (b)   Shall be a minimum of 400 square feet and maximum of 600 square
feet and shall not exceed 15 feet in height.
      (2)   Impervious coverage. Impervious coverage may be increased by 5%
through a conditional use permit if the following is provided:
         (a)   A storm water retention plan be submitted showing containment of
the five-year, 24-hour storm event on the parcel; and
         (b)   Direct runoff of storm water to adjacent water bodies, including
wetlands and adjacent parcels, shall be eliminated through the use of berms,
filtration strips, swales or other permanent means
      (3)   Outside storage. Storage of a fish house and a recreational vehicle
is allowed if stored not less than ten feet distance from any property line and
not within the OHW setback.
      (4)   Fences. Fences not exceeding 60 inches in height may be
constructed, except within the OHW setback area. Fences not exceeding 36 inches
may be constructed within the OHW setback area so long as the fencing is
transparent. Under no circumstances shall a fence be constructed closer than
ten feet from the surface of a public road. Materials shall consist of usual
fencing materials with posts and fence of metal, wood, concrete, brick or
smooth wire. Barbed or electrified wire is prohibited, except where specific
approval has been given by the Planning Commission.
      (5)   Establishment of primary use. All garages permitted without
principle dwelling units shall have adequate buildable area for a principle
dwelling unit, a sewer treatment system and a well. Applicants for garages
without principle dwelling units shall submit a sewer design by a licensed
designer for the future principle structure before obtaining a permit.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011; Ord. 906-2011, passed 4- -2011; Ord. passed - -
)
Editor’s note:
   This section was amended by the city in a public hearing held on 3-4-2014.
§ 152.037 RURAL PRESERVATION (RP).
   (A)   Intent and purpose. To establish and maintain a land use district that
preserves the city’s rural character and provides low density, rural
development adjacent to existing transportation infrastructure but not serviced
by municipal sewer and water.
   (B)   Lot and use requirements (RP).
Animal unit per acre - maximum                                     1
Buildable lot area - acres, minimum                                5
Building above highest ground water level - feet, minimum          3
Building height, accessory structure - feet, maximum               25
Building height, dwelling - feet, maximum                          25
Impervious coverage - percent maximum                              15%
Lot width - feet, minimum                                          100
Setback, corner side - feet, minimum                               30
Setback, rear - feet, minimum                                      10
Setback, right-of-way, county or state road - feet, minimum        50
Setback, right-of-way, city road - feet, minimum                   30
Setback, side yard - feet, minimum                                 10
Setback, sign - feet, minimum                                      1
Setback, un-platted cemetery or archeological site - feet, minimum 50
Setback, wetland or stream - feet, minimum                         50
 
   (C)   Performance standards (RP).
      (1)   Screening. Screening consisting of native trees and shrubs covering
a minimum of 75% of the area (leaf-on conditions) is required in the shore
impact zone, bluff impact zone and wetland setback in order to retain the
scenic beauty and rural character as viewed from lakes. To obtain a
construction permit in this district, a revegetation plan shall be required for
existing properties that do not meet this standard.
      (2)   BMPs.
         (a)   The Best Management Practices for Minnesota for Agriculture and
Water Quality, State Pollution Control Agency, shall hereby be adopted as the
standard for agricultural uses.
         (b)   The Best Management Practices in Minnesota for Water Quality in
Forest Management, State Department of Natural Resources, shall hereby be
adopted as the standard for timber management in forested areas.
      (3)   Outside storage. Storage of a fish house and a recreational vehicle
is allowed if stored not less than ten feet distance from any property line and
not within the OHW setback.
      (4)   Fences. Fences not exceeding 60 inches in height may be
constructed, except within the OHW setback area. Fences not exceeding 36 inches
may be constructed within the OHW setback area so long as the fencing is
transparent. Under no circumstances shall a fence be constructed closer than
ten feet from the surface of a public road. Materials shall consist of usual
fencing materials with posts and fence of metal, wood, concrete, brick or
smooth wire. Barbed or electrified wire is not to be used where frequent human
contact is anticipated.
      (5)   Establishment of primary use. All garages permitted without
principle dwelling units shall have adequate buildable area for a principle
dwelling unit, a sewer treatment system and a well. Applicants for garages
without principle dwelling units shall submit a sewer design by a licensed
designer for the future principle structure before obtaining a permit.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.038 DOWNTOWN MIXED-USE (DMU).
   (A)   Intent and purpose. To establish and maintain a land use district for
a mix of high-density residential and commercial uses. Development in this zone
relies less on automobile traffic and more on walking, biking and other similar
modes of transportation. Infrastructure must be in place to provide on-street
parking and walkways as well as connection to municipal water and sanitary
sewer utilities. Downtown Mixed-Use Zones should be clustered to provide the
maximum amount of interaction and accessibility between the different
establishments.
   (B)   Lot and use requirements (DMU).
Animal units per acre-maximum                               0
Buildable lot area - square feet, minimum                   2,250
Building above highest ground water level - feet, minimum   3
Building height - feet, maximum                             25
Impervious coverage with storm sewer available              90%
Impervious coverage without storm sewer available           50%
Lot width - feet, minimum                                   30
Maximum density (units per acre)                            20
Setback, parking from building or lot line - feet, minimum  0
Setback, rear - feet, minimum                               10
Setback, right-of-way, city road - feet, minimum            1
Setback, right-of-way, county or state road - feet, minimum 10
Setback, side yard - feet, minimum                          0
Setback, sign - feet, minimum                               1
Setback, wetland - feet, minimum                            50
 
   (C)   Performance standards (DMU).
      (1)   Parking. Developments shall minimize the appearance of parking
areas.
         (a)   Location. Parking and vehicle drives shall be located away from
building entrances and street corners, and not between a building entrance and
the street. Surface parking shall be oriented behind or to the side of a
building when possible.
         (b)   Landscape buffering. Suitable trees and shrubs shall be planted
between parking lots and all adjacent sidewalks and buildings.
         (c)   Maximum parking ratio. Surface parking shall not exceed 125% of
the minimum parking requirement for the subject land use(s).
         (d)   Parcels along State Highway 6 in the DMU zone shall be exempted
from all parking minimum number requirements. A proposed parking plan shall be
submitted for review and approval by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Pedestrian amenities. Proposed developments shall provide for safe
and comfortable sidewalks, paths and resting areas for pedestrians. Sidewalks
and paths shall connect the development to adjacent land uses and provide
connections through the development to the public street right-of-way.
      (3)   Lighting. All building entrances, pathways and other pedestrian
areas shall be lit to two footcandles with pedestrian-scale lighting including
wall mounted, sidewalk lamps, bollards or landscape up-lighting.
      (4)   Fences. Fences not exceeding 72 inches in height may be
constructed. Fencing shall only be constructed closer than ten feet from the
surface of a public road with the permission of the Planning Commission.
Materials shall consist of usual fencing materials with posts and fence of
metal, wood, concrete, brick or smooth wire. Barbed or electrified wire is
allowed only with the permission of the Planning Commission.
      (5)   Impervious coverage. The impervious coverage may be increased to75%
through a land use permit if the following is provided:
         (a)   A storm water management plan that retains the 25-year, 24-hour
rain event is provided on-site. Upon approval, the plan must be fully
implemented and maintained;
         (b)   Direct runoff to adjacent properties, including publicly-owned
lands, in a 25-year, 24-hour rain event is eliminated through the use of
swales, berms, ditches, grading or other necessary and permitted means; and
         (c)   Failing to maintain the storm water management system will be
considered a violation of this chapter.
      (6)   Impervious coverage. The impervious coverage may be increased to
90% through a conditional use permit if the following is provided and the
requirements for a conditional use permit are met:
         (a)   A professionally engineered storm water management plan that
retains the 100-year, 24-hour rain event is provided on-site. Upon approval,
the plan must be fully implemented and maintained;
         (b)   Direct runoff to adjacent properties, including publicly-owned
properties, in a 100-year, 24-hour rain event is eliminated through the use of
swales, berms, ditches, grading or other necessary and permitted means; and
         (c)   Failing to maintain the storm water management system will be
considered a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011; Ord. passed - -)
Cross reference:
   Use of public sidewalks for commercial purposes, see §
93.05
§ 152.039 COMMERCIAL TRANSITION/LIGHT INDUSTRIAL (CT).
   (A)   Intent and purpose. To establish and maintain a land use district for
commercial and light industrial purposes, with independent sanitary facilities,
which can provide goods and services needed locally for the residents of the
community without negatively impacting the natural resources or small town
character of the city.
   (B)   Lot and use requirements (CT).
Buildable lot area - square feet, minimum                   20,000
Building above highest ground water level - feet, minimum   3
Building height - feet, maximum                             25
Impervious surface - percent, maximum                       25%
Lot width - feet, minimum                                   100
Setback, between buildings - feet, minimum                  10
Setback, parking from lot line - feet, minimum              10
Setback, rear - feet, minimum                               30
Setback, right-of-way, city road - feet, minimum            30
Setback, right-of-way, county or state road - feet, minimum 30
Setback, side next to residential district - feet, minimum  30
Setback, side yard - feet, minimum                          30
Setback, sign - feet, minimum                               1
Setback, unplatted cemetery or archeological site           50
Setback, wetland - feet, minimum                            75
 
   (C)   Performance standards (CT).
      (1)   Impervious coverage. Impervious coverage may be increased by up to
15% through a conditional use permit if the following is provided:
         (a)   A storm water retention plan showing containment of the five-
year, 24-hour storm event on the parcel; and
         (b)   Direct runoff of storm water to adjacent properties and wetlands
shall be eliminated through the use of berms, infiltration ponds, swales,
filtration strips or other permanent means.
      (2)   Compatibility of use. Uses shall be compatible with the surrounding
neighborhood. Uses shall not present noise, odor, light nuisances or any other
nuisances.
      (3)   Parking. Adequate off-street parking shall be provided. On-street
parking is not allowed under any circumstances. To reduce the visual impacts
and amount of surface parking, shared parking and surface parking shall be
located behind or to the side of a building. Additionally, suitable trees and
shrubs shall be planted between parking lots and all adjacent sidewalks, roads,
lots and buildings.
      (4)   Screening. All sites shall be heavily landscaped to provide 100%
screening to adjacent residential parcels and over 50% screening from the road
or any non-residential parcel. Percentages shall be determined by amount of
structure that can be seen during leaf-on conditions. A landscaping and
screening plan must be submitted and approved by the Planning Commission with
each conditional use permit.
      (5)   Lighting. Lighting shall be minimal. Lighting shall be downward
directional and shall be compatible with the surrounding development. Lights
approved with signs must be turned off at the close of business each day.
      (6)   Fire lanes. Fire lanes shall remain unobstructed at all times.
      (7)   Fences. Fences not exceeding 84 inches in height may be
constructed. Under no circumstances shall a fence be constructed closer than
ten feet from the surface of a public road. Materials shall consist of usual
fencing materials with posts and fence of metal, wood, concrete, brick or
smooth wire. Barbed or electrified wire is prohibited, except where specific
approval has been given by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.040 SHORELINE COMMERCIAL (SC).
   (A)   Intent and purpose. To establish and maintain a land use district for
existing commercial, recreationally orientated uses within the shoreland area
comprised of campgrounds, resorts, bars restaurants, marinas and similar water-
oriented uses with independent sanitary facilities and that are compatible with
the natural resources of lakes and streams.
   (B)   Lot and use requirements (SC).
 GD Lake RD Lake ND Lake
                                                     GD Lake RD Lake ND Lake
Buildable lot area - acres, minimum                  2.5     5       10
Building above highest ground water level - feet,    3       3       3
minimum
Building height, dwelling - feet, maximum            25      25      25
Building height, accessory structure - feet, maximum 13      13      13
Impervious coverage - percent maximum                25%     20%     20%
Lot width at OHW- feet, minimum                      300     500     750
Setback, between buildings - feet, minimum           10      10      10
Setback, corner side - feet, minimum                 30      30      30
Setback, ISTS from OHW - feet, minimum               75      75      100
Setback, OHW of lake - feet, minimum                 75      150     200
Setback, parking from lot lines - feet, minimum      10      10      10
Setback, right-of-way, county or state road - feet,  50      50      50
minimum
Setback, right-of-way, city road - feet, minimum     30      30      30
Setback, side yard - feet, minimum                   10      10      10
Setback, sign from road - feet, minimum              1       1       1
Setback, top of bluff - feet, minimum                30      30      30
Setback, un-platted cemetery or archeological site - 50      50      50
feet, minimum
Setback, wetland - feet, minimum                     50      50      50
 
   (C)   Performance standards (SC).
      (1)   Screening.
         (a)   Generally. Screening consisting of native trees and shrubs
covering a minimum of 75% of the area (leaf-on conditions) is required in the
50-foot lake, river, stream, wetland and bluff buffers in order to retain the
scenic beauty and rural character as viewed from roads. To obtain a permit in
this district, a revegetation plan acceptable to the Zoning Administrator shall
be required for existing properties that do not meet this standard.
         (b)   Screening, alternate approach. As an alternative to the
screening requirements of division (C)(1)(a) above, a property owner seeking a
permit may opt to discontinue turf maintenance (mowing) within the shore impact
zone and allow the natural vegetation to reestablish in this area. An area to
provide access to the lake can be maintained so long as it does not exceed 10%
of the width of the lot or 15 feet in width, whichever is less.
      (2)   Buildings. Four unit or larger buildings or buildings open to the
public shall be designed by a registered architect and shall meet the
provisions of the state’s Building Code.
      (3)   Centralization of mooring facilities. Uses that require short-term
watercraft mooring for patrons must centralize these facilities and design them
to avoid obstructions of navigation and to be the minimum size necessary to
meet the need.
      (4)   Stairways, lifts and landings. Stairways and lifts are the only
accepted method for achieving access up and down bluffs and steep slopes to
shore areas. Topographic alteration to obtain access is not allowed. Stairways,
lifts and landings must meet the following design requirements.
         (a)   Stairways and lifts must not exceed four feet in width on
residential lots. Wider stairways may be used for commercial properties, public
open-space recreational properties and planned unit developments.
         (b)   Landings for stairways and lifts on residential lots must not
exceed 32 square feet in area.
         (c)   Canopies or roofs are not allowed on stairways, lifts or
landings.
         (d)   Stairways, lifts and landings may be either constructed above
the ground on posts or pilings or placed into the ground; provided, they are
designed and built in a manner that ensures control of soil erosion.
         (e)   Stairways, lifts and landing must be located in the most
visually inconspicuous portions of lots, as viewed from the surface of the
public water assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, whenever practical.
         (f)   Facilities such as ramps, lifts or mobility paths for physically
handicapped persons are also allowed for achieving access to shore areas;
provided that, the dimensional and performance standards of divisions (C)(4)(a)
to (C)(4)(e) above are complied with.
      (5)   Fertilizer and pesticides. Use of fertilizer and pesticides in the
shoreland management district must be done in such a way as to minimize runoff
into the shore impact zone or public water by the use of earth, vegetation or
both.
      (6)   Impervious surface replacement. Parcels that exceed the maximum
allowed impervious surface may construct additional impervious surfaces if the
overall impervious coverage is reduced on a 2:1 removal/construction ratio.
      (7)   Parking. To reduce the visual impacts and amount of surface
parking, parking structures, shared parking and surface parking located behind
or to the side of a building shall be encouraged whenever possible.
Additionally, suitable trees and shrubs shall be planted between parking lots
and all adjacent sidewalks, roads, lots and buildings. No parking shall occur
within shoreline setback areas.
      (8)   Fences. Fences not exceeding 60 inches in height may be
constructed, except within the OHW setback area. Fences not exceeding 36 inches
may be constructed within the OHW setback area so long as the fencing is
transparent. Under no circumstances shall a fence be constructed closer than
ten feet from the surface of a public road. Materials shall consist of usual
fencing materials with posts and fence of metal, wood, concrete, brick or
smooth wire. Barbed or electrified wire is prohibited.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011; Ord. 906-2011, passed 4- -2011)
§ 152.041 RECREATION (REC).
   (A)   Intent and purpose. To establish and maintain a land use district for
existing uses of land or for land properly suited for recreational development
that is semi-rural in character, allows public and private recreation
facilities and accessory uses and promotes and maintains aesthetics in areas
that serve as a transitional zoning district between residential uses and
commercial uses.
   (B)   Lot and use requirements (REC).
Building above highest known ground water - feet, minimum 3
Building height - feet, maximum                           25
Impervious surface coverage - percent, maximum            15%
Lot area - acres, minimum                                 10
Lot width - feet, minimum                                 300
Setback, corner side - feet, minimum                      40
Setback, OHW - feet, minimum                              150
Setback, road - feet, minimum                             75
Setback, side - feet, minimum                             30
Setback, sign - feet, minimum                             1
Setback, wetland - feet, minimum                          50
 
   (C)   Performance standards (REC). All proposed development in the
Recreation District.
      (1)   General. All proposed development in the Recreation District shall
be reviewed by the Parks Board, which will make recommendations to the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   Compatibility of use. Use shall be compatible with the surrounding
neighborhood. Uses shall not present noise, odor, light or any other nuisances.
      (3)   Parking. To reduce the visual impacts and amount of surface
parking, parking structures, shared parking and surface parking located behind
or to the side of a building shall be encouraged whenever possible.
Additionally, suitable trees and shrubs shall be planted between parking lots
and all adjacent sidewalks, roads, lots and buildings. No parking shall occur
within shoreline setback areas.
      (4)   Screening. All sites shall be heavily landscaped to provide 100%
screening of structures to adjacent residential parcels and over 50% screening
from the road or any non-residential parcel. Percentages shall be determined by
amount of structure that can be seen during leaf-on conditions. A landscaping
and screening plan must be submitted and approved by the Planning Commission
with each conditional use permit.
      (5)   Lighting. Lighting shall be downward directional and shall be
compatible with the surrounding development. Signs approved with lights must be
turned off at the close of business each day.
      (6)   Fences. Fences not exceeding 60 inches in height may be
constructed, except within the OHW setback area. Fences not exceeding 36 inches
may be constructed within the OHW setback area so long as the fencing is
transparent. Under no circumstances shall a fence be constructed closer than
ten feet from the surface of a public road. Materials shall consist of usual
fencing materials with posts and fence of metal, wood, concrete, brick or
smooth wire. Barbed or electrified wire is prohibited, except where specific
approval has been given by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.042 HIGHWAY MIXED-USE (HMU).
   (A)   Intent and purpose. To create and maintain a land use district which
gives opportunity for residential and commercial development along highway
access corridors. The creation of this district should work within the goals of
the Comprehensive Plan, not diminishing the natural beauty of the area.
Screening and larger lots will be required to minimize visibility from roadways
and neighboring lots. Single-family residential development is likely the
primary use, with secondary use being commercial or a home occupation.
   (B)   Lot and use requirements (HMU).
Animal unit per acre - maximum                             1 acre
Buildable lot area                                         2 acres
Building above highest ground water level - feet, minimum  3
Building height - feet, maximum                            25
Impervious surface - percent, maximum                      25%
Lot width- feet, minimum                                   100
Setback, between buildings - feet, minimum                 10
Setback, parking from lot line - feet, minimum             10
Setback, right-of-way, city road- feet, minimum            30
Setback, right-of-way, county or state road, feet, minimum 30
Setback, side next to residential district - feet, minimum 30
Setback, side yard - feet, minimum                         30
Setback, rear - feet, minimum                              30
Setback, sign - feet, minimum                              1
Setback, unplatted cemetery or archeological site          50
Setback, wetland - feet, minimum                           75
 
   (C)   Performance standards (HMU).
      (1)   Impervious coverage. Impervious coverage may be increased by up to
15% through a conditional use permit if the following is provided:
         (a)   A storm water retention plan showing containment of the five-
year, 24-hour storm event on the parcel; and
         (b)   Direct runoff of storm water to adjacent properties and wetlands
shall be eliminated through the use of berms, infiltration ponds, swales,
filtration strips or other permanent means.
      (2)   Compatibility of use. Use shall be compatible with the surrounding
neighborhood. Uses shall not present noise, odor, light nuisances or any other
nuisances.
      (3)   Parking. Adequate off-street parking for commercial uses shall be
provided. On-street parking is not allowed under any circumstances. To reduce
the visual impacts and amount of surface parking, shared parking and surface
parking shall be located behind or to the side of a building. Additionally,
suitable trees and shrubs shall be planted between parking lots and all
adjacent sidewalks, roads, lots and buildings.
      (4)   Screening. All sites shall be heavily landscaped to provide 100%
screening to adjacent residential parcels and over 50% screening from the road
or any non-residential parcel. Percentages shall be determined by amount of
structure that can be seen during leaf-on conditions. A landscaping and
screening plan must be submitted and approved by the Planning Commission with
each conditional use permit.
      (5)   Lighting. Lighting shall be minimal. Lighting shall be downward
directional and shall be compatible with the surrounding development. Lights
approved with signs must be turned off at the close of business each day.
      (6)   Fire lanes. Fire lanes shall remain unobstructed at all times.
      (7)   Fences. Fences not exceeding 84 inches in height may be
constructed. Under no circumstances shall a fence be constructed closer than
ten feet from the surface of a public road. Materials shall consist of usual
fencing materials with posts and fence of metal, wood, concrete, brick or
smooth wire. Barbed or electrified wire is prohibited, except where specific
approval has been given by the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Mixed uses or conversions of use.
      (1)   Existing single- and multi-family residential parcels that intend
to utilize the property for commercial use, either as a new primary or a
secondary or accessory use, must apply for a conditional use permit, subject to
the requirements of §
152.155 of this chapter.
      (2)   Existing commercial parcels that intend to utilize the property for
single-family residential use, either as a new primary or a secondary or
accessory use, are permitted to do so subject to State Building Codes and other
requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Existing commercial parcels that intend to utilize the property for
multi-family residential use, either as a new primary or a secondary or
accessory use, must apply for a conditional use permit, subject to the
requirements of §
152.155 of this chapter.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011; Ord. 24-02, passed 5-14-2024)
Editor’s note:
   This section was added by the city at a public hearing on 10-7-2014.
§ 152.043 LAND USE MATRIX.
   (A)   The land use matrix shown in Table 1, Table of Uses, attached at the
end of this chapter in
Appendix A, establishes the allowable, permitted, accessory, conditional,
interim and excluded uses within the city.
   (B)   All uses are considered prohibited unless specifically allowed in this
chapter, even if they are not listed specifically under excluded uses.
   (C)   All accessory uses require a permit, unless otherwise indicated.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011; Ord. 906, passed 4-12-2016, Ord. 901, passed 4-
12-2016; Ord. 906, 1st Series, passed 5-9-2017)
Editor’s note:
   This section was amended by the city at public hearings on 5-7-2013 and 10-
7-2014.
OVERLAY DISTRICTS
§ 152.055 GENERAL.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. To establish and maintain districts that overlay
existing zoning districts to better manage significant areas with specific
needs, such as encouraging growth in areas with existing public facilities or
preserving areas with valued resources and amenities. All sites within an
overlay district shall continue to bear their original zoning, but with the
provisions of the overlay district appended.
   (B)   Boundaries.
      (1)   The boundaries are established based on district-specific criteria
and may not be aligned with roads, lot lines or other human-made boundaries.
The boundaries are designated on overlay maps.
      (2)   Overlay maps are considered part of the official zoning map and are
therefore approved and amended following procedures in §
152.015 of this chapter.
   (C)   Permits. No subdivision, rezoning, reconstruction, alteration or
addition shall be made to any existing structure, nor shall any additional
structure be constructed upon a site in any overlay district, except in
accordance with the provisions of the overlay district.
   (D)   Districts. The following overlay districts are hereby established:
Shoreland Overlay District.
   (E)   Supremacy. If a provision of an overlay district conflicts with a
provision or provisions of the underlying zoning district, the more restrictive
provision shall apply.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.056 SHORELAND OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. To create minimum setback and performance
standards that would apply to all shoreland properties.
   (B)   Applicability. The Shoreland Overlay District would include all lands
within 1,000 feet of designated water bodies.
   (C)   Requirements.
      (1)   The OHW and bluff setbacks contained in §
152.035(B) of this chapter shall apply.
      (2)   The performance standards contained in §
152.035(C) of this chapter shall apply where they are the more restrictive.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.057 RECREATION OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. To create a district that provides for higher
densities in areas where there is a designated recreational amenity, such as a
golf course.
   (B)   Applicability. The Recreation Overlay District would include all
parcels adjacent to parcels zoned recreational, except those lands within 1,000
feet of a designated water body.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 152.070 SIGNS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of these standards is to protect the general
welfare and safety of the city by providing a policy of aesthetic development
to prevent signs from intruding on the rural and residential character of the
city; to provide adequate signs for direction and property identification
purposes; and to provide adequate and effective signs for commercial use.
   (B)   General.
      (1)   Non-maintained signs or signs for discontinued business will be
removed after notification by the Zoning Administrator or after discontinuance
of the business.
      (2)   Placement of signs shall consider protecting sight distance at
intersections, driveways and curves.
      (3)   All flashing or lighted revolving signs and all portable signs are
prohibited, except as specifically allowed in this section.
      (4)   Digital time and temperature signs with digital messaging that does
not flash, that are part of an overall sign design are allowed in commercial
areas.
      (5)   Temporary signs pertaining only to the construction, sale or rental
of the premises are allowable provided they do not exceed nine square feet in
any zone and are removed within 30 days of the completion of construction, sale
or rental.
      (6)   Temporary signs, including streamers and portable signs, are
allowed for special events such as grand openings and promotions provided they
are not in place longer than 14 days.
      (7)   A non-conforming sign may be refaced, removed and replaced for
maintenance purposes, however it shall not be increased in size, the support
system shall not be improved and the sign shall be removed in its entirety upon
the determination by the Zoning Administrator that the sign is in disrepair or
the support system is failing.
      (8)   Residential and commercial signs may not contain elements commonly
used by highway departments to alert, direct or caution traffic such as, but
not limited to, octagonal stop signs or speed limit signs.
      (9)   Street identification signs, no hunting or trespassing signs and
temporary signs endorsing a political candidate, party or issue during an
election season are allowed without a permit.
      (10)   No signs, except for official traffic signs, shall be placed on or
overhang public property, except where specific permission is granted by the
Planning Commission.
      (11)   All signs must be constructed and maintained in a professional
manner.
      (12)   All signs, excluding temporary signs, shall be set back ten feet
from a right-of-way intersection.
   (C)   Required permits. All signs are considered structures and require a
zoning permit, except signs placed by the city, county or state to relate the
laws or ordinances, which are exempt, and signs exempted in division (B) above.
   (D)   On-site signs.
      (1)   Residential districts. (Highway Mixed Use, Shoreline Residential,
Neighborhood Residential, Rural Preservation, Forest Preservation, Forest
Residential)
         (a)   Signs shall not be internally or externally lighted, but may be
reflective.
         (b)   No sign shall be larger than three square feet, except for a
permitted home occupation where six square feet is allowed. Signs for home
occupations or for businesses owned by the property owner along state highways
or county roads in a 55 mph speed zone or higher are permitted to be 32 square
feet.
         (c)   Only one sign per parcel shall be allowed.
         (d)   In addition to other signs exempted under this chapter, a
temporary sign is allowed to be placed on private property within, and directly
adjacent to, newly platted subdivision for 24 months following final plat
approval, or until land use permits have been obtained on 50% of the parcels
within the subdivision, whichever comes sooner. The property owner may request
a 12-month extension for the temporary sign, to be granted at the discretion of
the Planning Commission. Signs erected under this section shall require a
permit and shall not exceed 32 square feet in any zone.
      (2)   Commercial districts. (Shoreland Commercial, Downtown Mixed Use,
Commercial Transition/Light Industrial)
         (a)   All signs on a property must be coordinated to create an overall
appearance in regards to size and color.
         (b)   Up to 25% of any principle structure facade area which directly
abuts and lies generally parallel the road right-of-way or publicly traveled
roadway may be dedicated to banners in good repair for an unlimited duration.
If the property also displays yard banners on posts or banners elsewhere on the
property not affixed to the building facade, the square footage calculated as
the allowable 25% shall be reduced by the square footage of those banners.
            1.   The permitted sign area may be split up into several signs or
used for one sign.
            2.   Any attached sign that protrudes from a structure two feet or
less will be counted as part of the building facade signage 25% allowance.
            3.   Facade area may be transferred from one side to another so
long as the area used as signage never exceeds 25% of the total allowed
signage.
            4.   No credit is given for facade area not directly abutting and
lying generally parallel the road right-of-way or publicly traveled roadway.
         (c)   Each property is allowed one freestanding sign so long as the
sign can meet setbacks and its placement does not obstruct lines of sight or
pedestrian corridors.
            1.   Buildings located in a 40 mph speed zone or higher are allowed
up to 128 square feet (64 sq. ft. per side) of freestanding sign.
            2.   Buildings located in a less than 40 mph speed zone are allowed
up to 96 square feet (48 sq. ft. per side) of freestanding sign and, for multi-
business buildings, are allowed an additional ten square feet for each business
after the first.
            3.   For corner lots, one freestanding sign conforming to these
standards is allowed on each roadway.
            4.   Any attached sign that protrudes from a structure more than
two feet will be considered a freestanding sign.
            5.   For parcels located in a 40 mph speed zone or higher, no
freestanding sign shall exceed 20 feet in height. For parcels located in a less
than 40 mph speed zone, no freestanding sign shall exceed 15 feet in height.
For parcels in more than one zone, the more restrictive standard will apply.
         (d)   There shall be no signage on accessory structures.
         (e)   Property owners seeking to display more signs than what are
allowed in this section or seeking allowances outside of what is allowed in
this section, may obtain permission to do so by conditional use permit. Such
application for a conditional use permit shall include submittal of a sign
concept plan for the entire parcel. In addition to conditional use permit
criteria, the basis for approval or denial shall include an evaluation of:
            1.   Necessity of the additional signage;
            2.   Alternatives to additional signage;
            3.   Continuity with signage on adjacent parcels;
            4.   Aesthetic impacts; and
            5.   Perceived effectiveness of proposed signage.
         (f)   Uses that depend on patrons arriving by watercraft may use signs
and lighting to convey needed information to the public, subject to the
following general standards.
            1.   No advertising signs or supporting facilities for signs may be
placed upon public waters. Signs conveying information or safety messages may
be placed in or on public waters by a public authority or a permit issued by
the County Sheriff.
            2.   Signs may be placed, when necessary, within the shore impact
zone if they are designed and sized to be the minimum necessary to convey
needed information. They must only convey the location and name of the
establishment and the general types of goods or services available. The signs
must not contain other detailed information such as product brands and prices,
must not be located higher than ten feet above the ground and must not exceed
32 square feet in size. If illuminated by artificial lights, the lights must be
shielded or directed to prevent illumination out across public waters.
            3.   Other outside lighting may be located within the shore impact
zone or over public waters if it is used primarily to illuminate potential
safety hazards and is shielded or otherwise directed to prevent illumination
out across public waters. This does not preclude use of navigational lights.
      (3)   Recreational district.
         (a)   Each recreationally zoned development may be allowed on-site
signage as regulated by a conditional use permit. Unless otherwise allowed, the
size of any single sign shall not exceed 48 square feet in area and shall not
exceed ten feet from the ground to the top of the sign.
         (b)   A parcel of land may have internal directional signs that are
related to the operation of the recreational facility.
         (c)   No signage shall be allowed to direct any light on to an
adjacent parcel of land.
   (E)   Off-site signs. Off-site signs are prohibited, except for residential
or commercial directory signs. Any existing off-site signs are considered non-
conforming structures.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011; Ord. 906-2012, passed 5-8-2012; Ord., passed -
-)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.071 NUISANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Compliance required. Every use permitted by this chapter shall be so
established and maintained as to comply with the provisions of this section.
The Council may require the complaining party to provide such tests or
investigations by an independent testing organization satisfactory to the
Council as are necessary to show non-compliance with these standards. The
entire cost of such investigations and tests shall be paid for by the
complaining party unless the results disclose non-compliance with these
standards; in the event, the entire cost shall be borne by the owner or
operator. This provision does not preclude the city from making any
investigations and tests it finds appropriate to determine compliance with
these standards.
   (B)   Noise.
      (1)   Noise shall be measured on any property line of the tract on which
the source of the noise is located. Noise shall be muffled so as not to become
objectionable due to intermittence, beat frequency, shrillness or intensity. At
the property line of the tract on which the source of noise is located, the
sound pressure level of noise radiated shall not exceed the following limits
measured for 10% (L10) and 50% (L50) of a one-hour period, using a sound level
meter having the characteristics as specified in standards endorsed by the
American National Standards Institute, specification for sound level meters,
and using procedures approved by the state’s Pollution Control Agency. Noises
emanating from any use shall be in compliance with and regulated by the state’s
Pollution Control Standards, Minn. Regs. NCP 7010.
      (2)   In addition, no persons shall make a cause to be made, any
impulsive and loudly audible noise that injures or endangers comfort, repose,
health, peace, safety or welfare of any persons or precludes their enjoyment of
property of affects their property value.
   [Adjoining Property Zone - Time Table follows on next page]
 
Adjoining Property Zone - Time
                      Day, 7:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m. Night, 10:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m.
                      L10 L50                     L10 L50
Decibels, residential 60  55                      50  45
zones
Decibels, commercial  65  60                      65  60
zones
 
   (C)   Odor. No use shall cause the discharge of toxic, noxious or odorous
matter beyond the limits of the site where it is located in such concentrations
as to be obnoxious or otherwise detrimental to the public health, safety,
comfort or welfare or cause injury to property or business.
   (D)   Glare. Direct or reflected glare, such as from floodlights, spotlights
or high temperature process, and as differentiated from general illumination,
shall not be visible beyond the sight of origin at any property line. Any
lights used for exterior illumination shall be hooded or controlled in some
manner so as not to light adjacent property. Bare incandescent light bulbs
shall not be permitted where in view of adjacent property or public right-of-
way. Except for public street lights, any light or combination of lights which
cast light on a public street shall not exceed one foot-candle as measured from
the property line of said street. Any light or combination of lights which cast
light on residential property shall not exceed one foot-candle as measured from
the property line of said property.
   (E)   Vibration. Vibration at any property line shall not be discernible to
the human sense of feeling for three minutes or more duration in any one-hour
period. Vibration of any kind shall not produce at any time an acceleration of
more than one-tenth gravities or result in any combination of amplitudes and
frequencies beyond the “safe” range of Table VII United States Bureau of Mines
Bulletin No. 442, “Seismic Effects of Quarry Blasting” on any structure. The
methods and equations of that bulletin shall be used to compute all values for
the enforcement of this provision.
   (F)   Smoke. The emission of smoke by any use shall be in compliance with
and regulated by the state’s Pollution Control Standards, Minn. Regs. APC 7017.
Open burning shall require a DNR burning permit.
   (G)   Dust and other particulate matter. The emission of dust, fly ash or
other particulate matter by any use shall be in compliance with and regulated
by the state’s Pollution Control Standards, Minn. Regs. APC 7011.
   (H)   Fumes or gases. Fumes or gases shall not be emitted at any point in
concentrations that are noxious, toxic or corrosive. The values given in Table
I (Industrial Hygiene Standards - Maximum Allowable Concentration for eight
hour day, five days per week), Table III (Odor Thresholds), Table IV
(Concentrations of Substances Causing Pain in the Eyes), and Table V (Exposure
to Substances Causing Damage to Vegetation) in the latest revision of Chapter
5, “Physiological Effects” that contains such tables, in the Air Pollution
Abatement Manual published by the Manufacturing Chemists’ Association, Inc.,
Washington D.C., are hereby established as guides for the determination of
permissible concentration and amounts. The city may require detailed plans for
the elimination of fumes or gases before the issuance of a zoning permit.
   (I)   Fire hazards. Any activity involving the use or storage of flammable
or explosive materials shall be protected by adequate firefighting and fire
prevention equipment and by such safety devices as are normally used in the
handling of such materials. Such hazards shall be kept removed form adjacent
activities to a distance that is compatible with the potential danger involved.
   (J)   Wastes.
      (1)   All waste generated shall be disposed of in a manner consistent
with all State Pollution Control Agency rules.
      (2)   Any accumulation of waste generated on any premises not stored in
containers which comply with State Pollution Control Agency rules, or any
accumulation of mixed solid waste generated on any premises which has remained
thereon for more than one week, or any accumulation of infectious, nuclear,
pathological or hazardous waste which is not stored or disposed in a manner
consistent with State Pollution Control Agency rules, is a nuisance and may be
abated and the cost of abatement may be addressed against the property where
the nuisance is found.
      (3)   The accumulation, storage, processing and disposal of waste on any
premises, which is not generated on that premises, is prohibited, except as
specifically provided in this chapter.
   (K)   Air pollution. Every activity shall conform to state regulations
relating to air quality standards and air pollution control.
   (L)   Erosion and drainage.
      (1)   No land shall be developed and no use shall be permitted that
results in water runoff causing flooding, erosion or deposit of sediment on
adjacent properties.
      (2)   All storm sewer inlets and drainageways that are functioning during
construction shall be protected so that sediment-laden water does not enter the
conveyance system without first being filtered or otherwise treated to remove
sediment.
      (3)   All on-site storm water conveyance systems must be designed and
constructed to withstand the design volume of storm water with appropriate
stabilization to prevent scour and erosion. Erosion controls must be provided
at the outlets of all storm sewer pipes or drainageways.
      (4)   All temporary and permanent erosion and sediment control practices
shall be maintained and repaired to assure the continued performance of their
intended function.
      (5)   All disturbed ground left inactive for seven or more days shall be
stabilized by seeding or sodding or by mulching or covering or other equivalent
control measure.
      (6)   All temporary erosion control devices, including silt fence,
gravel, hay bales or other measures shall be removed from the construction site
and properly disposed of or recycled. This removal and disposal must occur
within 60 days of the establishment of permanent vegetative cover on the
disturbed area.
   (M)   Radioactivity or electrical disturbance. No activity shall emit
dangerous radioactivity at any point or any electrical disturbance adversely
affecting the operation of any equipment at any point other than that of the
creator of such disturbance. Adverse effects shall be measured by FCC
standards.
   (N)   Fertilizers, herbicides and pesticides. No person shall place, spread
or store fertilizers, herbicides and/or pesticides in any manner other than
that recommended by the manufacturer or in any manner which allows any escape
of nutrients or toxins into the air, ground water or surface water of the city.
   (O)   Abandoned buildings. No person shall allow a building, mobile home/
manufactured house, or other structure to be abandoned, deteriorated or a
safety hazard. All abandoned, deteriorated or unsafe structures shall be
removed. If the owner fails to remove the structure, the city shall do so and
assess the cost against the property through the county taxation method.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.072 FENCES.
   (A)   General. Performance standards relating to fences are listed for each
district in §§
152.030 through
152.043 of this chapter.
   (B)   Safety hazards. Fences shall not be erected where they create a visual
safety hazard in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Location and orientation. Fences shall sit on the property of the
property owner installing the fence; fences may abut but not sit directly on
lot lines of adjacent parcels. The “good side” of the fence shall face abutting
properties, meaning that the posts shall face in toward the property on which
the fence sits and the finished face of the fence shall face abutting
properties. If the fence is within two feet of a property line, the adjoining
property owner abutting the fence is allowed to finish the side of the fence
facing their property.
   (D)   Maintenance. Fences shall be maintained to retain their aesthetic
quality, screening abilities and function. Missing boards, rusting wire and
posts and peeling paint shall be taken care of at the owner’s expense as they
occur.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.073 STORAGE.
   (A)   Exterior storage.
      (1)   There shall be no exterior storage allowed on lots that do not
contain a principle or accessory structure, except where the property owner
also owns adjoining property that contains a principle or accessory structure.
Provisions of divisions (A)(2) and (A)(3) below are still applicable.
      (2)   Where there is a principle or accessory structure, all materials
and equipment shall be stored within a building or fully screened so as not to
be visible from adjoining properties, except for the following: laundry drying,
recreational equipment, construction landscaping materials and equipment
currently being used for construction of the premises, woodpiles, other
equipment currently (within a period of 30 days) being used on the premises,
agricultural equipment and materials if these are used or intended for use on
the premises, off-street parking except as otherwise regulated herein.
Additional standards apply based on the zoning classification of the parcel.
      (3)   Abandoned motor vehicles shall be stored within a structure or
completely screened from view.
   (B)   Bulk storage.
      (1)   All uses associated with the bulk storage of oil, gasoline, liquid
propane, liquid fertilizer, chemicals and similar liquids shall comply with the
requirements of the state’s Fire Marshal, the state’s Pollution Control Agency
and the state’s Department of Agriculture Office and when in excess of normal
domestic requirements shall have documents from those offices stating that the
use is in compliance.
      (2)   No storage facility shall be constructed or placed where spillage
from the facility would drain to a drainageway or public waters without
providing complete containment.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.074 VISUAL STANDARDS; SCREENING.
   (A)   General. No use shall create, maintain or continue any activity or
structure which has a strong negative visual impact or offends the morals or
violates the standards of the city.
   (B)   Adjacent residential properties. Where any business or industry is
adjacent to property zoned residential or any use cannot meet the visual
standards of the city, screening shall be provided by the business or offending
use.
   (C)   Landscaping. Screening required shall be in addition to normal
landscaping and planting, and consist of a visual obstruction completely
containing the activity on the commercial or offending use property assuming
off-leaf conditions.
   (D)   Materials. Screening may consist of dense evergreen planting eight
feet or more in height, wood walls with 100% obstruction, a building wall
consisting of aesthetically pleasing materials that blends with the
surroundings or similar structures. All structural elements shall meet required
setbacks.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.075 SANITARY AND SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEMS - TECHNICAL
STANDARDS AND CRITERIA.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the subsurface sewage treatment system (SSTS)
section is to provide minimum standards for and regulation of individual sewage
treatment systems (ISTS) and mid-size sewage treatment systems (MSTS) including
the proper location, design and construction; their necessary modification and
reconstruction; their operation, maintenance and repair to protect surface
water and groundwater from contamination by human sewage and waterborne
household and commercial wastes; to protect the public's health and safety, and
eliminate or prevent the development of public nuisances.
   (B)   Intent. It is intended by the city that this section will promote the
following:
      (1)   The protection of lakes, rivers and streams, wetlands, and
groundwater in the city essential to the promotion of public health, safety,
welfare, socioeconomic growth and development of the city.
      (2)   The regulation of proper SSTS construction, reconstruction, repair,
monitoring and maintenance to prevent the entry and migration of contaminants,
thereby preventing the degradation of surface water and groundwater quality.
      (3)   The establishment of minimum standards for SSTS placement, design,
construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance to prevent contamination
and, if contamination is discovered, the identification and control of its
consequences and the abatement of its source and migration.
      (4)   The appropriate utilization of privy vaults and other non-water
carried sewage collection and storage facilities.
      (5)   All plumbing shall discharge into a municipal sanitary system if
available.
   (C)   Scope. This section regulates the siting, design, installation,
alterations, operation, maintenance, monitoring, and management of all SSTS
within the city applicable jurisdiction including, but not necessarily limited
to, individual SSTS and cluster or community SSTS, privy vaults and other non-
water carried SSTS. All sewage generated in unsewered areas of the city shall
be treated and dispersed by an approved SSTS that is sited, designed,
installed, operated and maintained in accordance with the provisions of this
section or by a system that has been permitted by the MPCA.
   (D)   City administration.
      (1)   The City Zoning Administrator shall administer the SSTS program and
all provisions of this section.
      (2)   The city's duties and responsibilities include, but ate not be
limited to, the following:
         (a)   Review all applications for SSTS.
         (b)   Issue all permits required in this section.
         (c)   Inspect all work regulated in this section.
         (d)   Investigate all complaints regarding SSTS.
         (e)   Issue certificates of installation, certificates of compliance
or notices of noncompliance where applicable.
         (f)   Enact enforcement provisions of this section as necessary.
         (g)   Refer unresolved violations of this section to the City
Attorney.
         (h)   Maintain current records for each permitted SSTS including all
site evaluation documents, design documents, inspection documents and other
applicable documents.
         (i)   The city shall employ or retain under contract qualified and
appropriately licensed professionals to administer and operate the SSTS
program.
         (j)   Submit annual reports to MPCA as required.
   (E)   State administration. The owner or owners of a single SSTS or a group
of SSTS under common ownership must obtain a state disposal system permit from
the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency according to Minn. Rules, Ch. 7001, when
all or part of proposed or existing soil dispersal components are within one-
half mile of each other and the combined flow from all proposed and existing
SSTS is greater than 10,000 gallons per day. For proposed SSTS, the flow must
be determined according Minn. Rules, Part 7081.0110. For existing SSTS, the
flow is determined by the greater of the average maximum seven-day measured
flow or flow amounts according to Minn. Rules, Part 7081.0110. The highest
calculated value of the various methods in Table I under Minn. Rules, Part
7081.0130, Subpart 1, must be used to make this determination, with no
reduction allowed. A State Disposal System permit is not required if a factor
of safety is added to the design flow that results in a design flow that is in
excess of the state disposal system permit threshold.
   (F)   Liability. The city's involvement in administration of this section
does not create a special duty to any person and, further liability or
responsibility shall not be imposed upon the city or any of its officials,
employees or other contract agents, for damage resulting from the defective
construction, operation or abandonment of any onsite or cluster SSTS regulated
under this section or by reason of any standards, requirements or inspections
authorized by this section hereunder.
   (G)   All SSTS. Except as explicitly set forth in division (I), all
provisions of this section shall apply to any SSTS regardless of the date it
was originally permitted.
   (H)   Existing permits. Unexpired permits, which were issued prior to the
effective date of this section, shall remain valid under the terms and
conditions of the original permit until the original expiration date or until a
change in system design, whichever is earlier.
   (I)   SSTS on lots created after 1-23-1996. All lots created after 1-23-
1996, must have a minimum of two soil treatment and dispersal areas that can
support Type 1 systems as defined by Minn. Rules, Part 7080.2200.
   (J)   Upgrade, repair, replacement and abandonment.
      (1)   Expansion of an existing SSTS must include any system upgrades that
are city land use ordinance necessary to bring the entire system into
compliance with the prevailing provisions of this section at the time of the
expansion.
      (2)   Any addition to a structure that includes bedroom(s) that require a
land use permit from the city shall require that the SSTS meet the required
design flow according to Minn. Rules, Part 7080.1860, or be upgraded to meet
Class 1 sizing for both the septic tanks and soil absorption area. Any required
upgrades shall be completed within two years.
      (3)   An SSTS that is determined not to be protective of groundwater in
accordance with Minn. Rules, Part 7080.1500, Subpart 4(B), shall be upgraded,
repaired, replaced or abandoned by the owner in accordance with the provisions
of this section within ten months upon receipt of a notice of noncompliance and
must meet class I sizing requirements according to Minn. Rules, Part 7080.1860.
      (4)   An SSTS posing an imminent threat to public health or safety shall
be pumped within 24 hours and managed as a holding tank in accordance with
Minn. Rules, Part 7080.1500, Subpart 4(A), and said SSTS shall be upgraded,
repaired, replaced or abandoned by the owner in accordance with the provisions
of this section within ten months upon receipt of a notice of noncompliance and
must meet class I sizing requirements according to Minn. Rules, Part 7080.1860.
      (5)   Any SSTS, or any component thereof, which is no longer intended to
be used, must be abandoned in accordance with Minn. Rules, Part 7080.2500.
   (K)   SSTS in floodplains. SSTS shall not be located in a floodway and
wherever possible, location within any part of a floodplain should be avoided.
If no option exists to locate a SSTS outside of a floodplain, location within
the flood fringe is allowed if the requirements in Minn. Rules, Part 7080.2270,
and all relevant local requirements are met.
   (L)   Class V injection wells. All owners of new or replacement SSTS that
are considered to be Class V injection wells, as defined in the 40 C.F.R. Part
144, are required by the federal government to submit a U.I.C. Class 5
inventory form to the Environmental Protection Agency as described in that
federal regulation. Further, owners are required to identify all Class V
injection wells in property transfer disclosures.
   (M)   SSTS practitioner licensing.
      (1)   No person shall engage in site evaluation, inspection, design,
installation, construction, alteration, extension, repair, maintenance or
pumping of SSTS without an appropriate and valid license issued by MPCA in
accordance with Minn. Rules, Ch. 7083, except as exempted in Minn. Rules, Part
7083.0700.
      (2)   An MPCA license is not required of an individual who is
constructing a SSTS on land that is owned by the individual and functions
solely as a dwelling for that individual pursuant to Minn. Rules, Part
7083.0700, and the city land use ordinance. Installation of the system shall be
based upon a design by a licensed designer. The system shall be inspected
before it is covered and a 24-hour notification to the Zoning Administrator for
inspection is required.
   (N)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   Occupancy or use of a building without a compliant SSTS. It is
unlawful for any person to maintain, occupy or use any building intended for
habitation or that contains plumbing fixtures that is not provided with a
wastewater treatment system or that disposes of wastewater in a manner that
does not comply with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Sewage discharge to ground surface or surface water. It is unlawful
for any person to construct, maintain or use any SSTS system regulated under
this section that results in raw or partially treated wastewater seeping to the
ground surface or flowing into any surface water. Any surface discharging
system must be permitted under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System program by the MPCA.
      (3)   Sewage discharge to a well or boring. It is unlawful for any person
to discharge raw or treated wastewater into any well or boring as described in
Minn. Rules, Part 4725.2050, or any other excavation in the ground that is not
in compliance with this section.
      (4)   Discharge of hazardous or deleterious materials. It is unlawful for
any person to discharge into any treatment system regulated under this section
any hazardous or deleterious material that adversely affects the treatment or
dispersal performance of the system or groundwater quality.
   (O)   Alternative local standards adopted by reference.
      (1)   Adoption of rule by reference.
         (a)   The city hereby adopts by reference the provisions of Minn.
Rules, Chs. 7080 -7083, in their entirety, except as referenced under division
(2) below, except as otherwise expressly modified by this section.
         (b)   When the “2006 version of Minnesota Administrative Rules Chapter
7080” is utilized, the reference is to the Rules effective 4-3-2006. Otherwise,
the city is referencing the current rules in effect.
         (c)   All new construction or replacement of SSTS shall employ sewage
tanks, distribution media and treatment products which have been registered by
the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
      (2)   Alternative local standards for new and existing SSTS. The city
hereby adopts the 2006 version of Minn. Rules Ch. 7080 for all new and existing
residential Type I, Type II and Type III SSTS and SSTS that serve any food,
beverage and lodging establishment under 2,500 gallons per day provided the
effluent discharge does not exceed the standards in Minn. Rules, Part
7080.2150, Subpart 3(K).
   (P)   Alternative local standards; differences in standards.
      The following is a list of different adopted standards:
      (1)   In no land use district, shall a land use permit, shoreline
alteration permit, minor subdivision, plat, conditional use permit or variance
be issued without a current certificate of compliance or certificate of
installation that has not expired according to division (Y)(5), below.
      (2)   At least one cleanout at or above finished grade shall be installed
between the structure and the septic tank with additional clean outs at
intervals not more than 100 feet.
      (3)   Class I sizing is required on all new construction. NEW
CONSTRUCTION will be defined as placement of a new structure or replacement
structure that is served by pressurized water.
      (4)   Minimum septic tank sizing shall be 1,500 gallons. This can be
accomplished through a compartmentalized tank, multiple tanks in series, or a
single existing 1,500-gallon tank with the use of an effluent filter for the
last baffle. The filter must be of such a design that when the filter is
removed from the filter housing, the flow of water leaving the tank is not
allowed. The first tank or compartment shall be no less than 1,000 gallons in
size and applies to new and replacement SSTS. Any additional septic tanks shall
be a minimum of 1,000 gallons. All other tank sizing shall follow Minn. Rule §
7080.1930 with 1,500-gallon tank sizing replacing 1,000-gallon tank sizing for
three bedrooms or less according to Table V.
      (5)   Pump tank sizing shall follow Minn. Rules, Part 7080.2100.
      (6)   Soil pits shall be required to verify soils prior to the issuance
of a certificate of installation. The soil pit shall be excavated to a depth
that will allow the verification of redoximorphic features and the three feet
of vertical separation as required. Location of soil pits shall be adjacent to
the lowest trench or next to the down slope side of an elevated treatment area.
The pit shall not impact the hydraulic performance of the ISTS. A certificate
of installation will not be issued until the soils are verified. Soils may be
verified by a licensed and certified inspector. The inspector may not share the
same license as the person who designed or installed the system. The soil
profile must be submitted to the city inspector or its designee on the city
approved form at or before the time of the installation inspection. If the soil
profile is not provided by the installation inspection, city staff or its
designee will verify the soils via a soils pit during the installation
inspection.
      (7)   All dwellings or buildings that contain plumbing fixtures shall
meet the required setbacks to the septic tank and soil absorption area.
Accessory structures, including but not limited to, decks, screen decks,
porches, sheds, garages and pole buildings shall not be required to meet said
setbacks provided that the tank(s) can be maintained properly and that the
structure does not negatively impact the function of the system.
   (Q)   Compliance criteria for existing SSTS. For a SSTS built before 4-1-
1996, and outside of areas designated as “SWF” (systems in shoreland areas,
wellhead protection areas or systems serving food, beverage or lodging
establishments), there must be at least two feet of vertical separation between
the bottom of the dispersal system and seasonal saturation or bedrock.
   (R)   Holding tanks. Holding tanks may be allowed for the following
applications: as replacements for existing failing SSTS and SSTS that pose an
imminent threat to public health or safety, on lots with limitations that will
not allow for the installation of a Type 1 SSTS or for uses that are seasonal
or intermittent in nature and will not use more than 150 gallons of water per
day.
   (S)   Municipal connection.
      (1)   If the existing system is adjacent to the parcel being subdivided
or reasonably close in the opinion of the City Engineer and Planning Commission
or if the density of the proposed development necessitates a municipal sewer
connection, a municipal sewer system shall be extended to the lot at the
subdivider’s expense by agreement in a development contract between the
subdivider and the City Council. The sewer shall also be extended to the
exterior boundary of the subdivision at locations designated by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)   Municipal sewage facilities shall be designed by a registered
engineer, approved by the City Engineer, approved by the states PCA, and
installed according to the City Engineers Association of Minnesota Standard
Specifications.
   (T)   Variance requests. A property owner may request a variance from the
standards as specified in this ordinance pursuant to §
152.156, below.
   (U)   State agency variance requests. Variances that pertain to the
standards and requirements of the State of Minnesota must be approved by the
affected state agency pursuant to the requirements of the state agency. No
permits will be issued by the city until all required state agency variances
have been approved.
   (V)   Permit requirements.
      (1)   Activities not requiring a land use permit. A land use permit is
not required for minor repairs or replacements of system components that do not
alter the original function of the system; change the treatment capacity of the
system; change the location of the system; or otherwise change the original
system design, layout or city land use ordinance function. Examples include,
but are not limited to, pumps, baffles and effluent filters.
      (2)   Activities requiring a land use permit. A land use permit shall be
obtained by the property owner or an agent of the property owner from the city
prior to the installation, construction, replacement, modification, alteration
or capacity expansion including the use of advanced treatment components of a
SSTS. It is unlawful for any person to construct, install, modify or replace a
SSTS without the appropriate permit from the Zoning Administrator, including
repair or replacement of components that will alter the original function of
the system, change the treatment capacity of the system, change the location of
the system or otherwise change the original system's design, layout or
function. The issuing of any permit, variance or conditional use under the
provisions of this section shall not absolve the applicant of responsibility to
obtain any other required permit.
      (3)   Permit requirements.
         Land use permit applications shall be made on forms provided by the
Zoning Administrator, signed by the applicant or applicant's agent and must
include the following information and documentation:
         (a)   Applicant name, mailing address, telephone number and email
address.
         (b)   Property identification number, property address and legal
description of property location.
         (c)   Site evaluation report, as described by Minn. Rules, Part
7080.1700, made on forms provided by the Zoning Administrator.
         (d)   Design report, as described in Minn Rules, Ch. 1750, made on
forms provided by the Zoning Administrator.
         (e)   A management plan, as defined by Minn. Rules, Part 7082.0600.
      (4)   Application review and response. The Zoning Administrator shall
review a permit application and supporting documents according to §
152.157, below.
      (5)   Appeal. The applicant may appeal any decision of the Zoning
Administrator to the Board of Adjustment in accordance with this section.
      (6)   Permit expiration.
         (a)   A land use permit for a new SSTS is valid for a period of no
more than two years from its date of issue.
         (b)   A land use permit for the replacement of SSTS failing to protect
groundwater is valid for ten months from its date of issue.
         (c)   A land use permit for the replacement of SSTS that are imminent
threats to public health is valid for ten months from its date of issue.
         (d)   Satisfactory completion of construction shall be determined by
as-built drawings and a signed certification that the construction and
installation of the system was completed in reasonable conformance with the
approved design documents by the Zoning Administrator, a qualified designee of
the Zoning Administrator or a licensed inspection business, which is authorized
by the Zoning Administrator, independent of the owner and the SSTS installer.
         (e)   Transferability. A land use permit may be transferred to a new
owner provided there are no proposed changes to the SSTS design.
         (f)   Suspension or revocation. The Zoning Administrator may suspend
or revoke a land use permit issued under this section for any false statements,
misrepresentations of facts on which the land use permit was issued and/or
unauthorized changes to the system design that alter the original function of
the system, change the treatment capacity of the system, change the location of
the system or otherwise change the original system design, layout or function.
A notice of suspension or revocation and the reasons for the suspension or
revocation shall be conveyed in writing to the permit holder. If suspended or
revoked, installation or modification of a treatment system may not commence or
continue until a valid land use permit is obtained.
         (g)   SSTS assessment requirements. For those SSTS without a
management plan or operating permit according to the provisions of this
section, the following provisions apply:
            1.   The owner of an ISTS or the owner's agent shall regularly, but
in no case less frequently than every three years, assess whether sewage tanks
leak below the designed operating depth and whether sewage tank tops, riser
joints and riser connections leak through visual evidence of major defects and
measure or remove the accumulations of scum, grease and other floating
materials at the top of each septic tank and compartment, along with the
sludge, which consists of the solids denser than water.
            2.   All solids and liquids must be removed by pumping from all
tanks or compartments in which the top of the sludge layer is less than 12
inches from the bottom of the outlet baffle or transfer hole or whenever the
bottom of the scum layer is less than three inches above the bottom of the
outlet baffle or transfer hole. Total sludge and scum volume must not be
greater than 25% of the tank's liquid capacity. Removal of accumulated sludge,
scum and liquids from septic tanks and pump tanks must be through the
maintenance hole. The removal of solids from any location other than the
maintenance hole is not a compliant method of solids removal from a sewage tank
and this method does not fulfill the solids removal requirement of this part or
a management plan. Liquid and solids removal from clean-out pipes is allowed
for holding tanks.
   (W)   Operating permit.
      (1)   An operating permit shall be required for the following SSTS:
         (a)   SSTS with high strength waste effluent standards that exceed
Minn. Rules, Part 7080.2150, Subpart 3(K);
         (b)   Holding tanks;
         (c)   SSTS serving three or more connections;
         (d)   Type 4 and Type 5 SSTS;
         (e)   SSTS that exceed a daily flow of 2,500 gallons per day; or
         (f)   MSTS designed under Minn. Rules, Ch. 7081, and the city
ordinance.
      (2)   Operating permits shall be a signed agreement between the Zoning
Administrator and the property owner and shall include monitoring, performance,
mitigation and reporting requirements.
      (3)   A valid operating permit shall be considered a certificate of
compliance if that system is in compliance with the requirements of the
operating permit.
      (4)   Owners of holding tanks shall provide the Zoning Administrator upon
request a copy of a valid monitoring and disposal contract executed between the
owner and a licensed maintenance business, which guarantees the removal of the
holding tank contents in a timely manner and prevents an illegal discharge in
accordance with Minn. Rules, Part 7082.0100, Subpart 3(G). This requirement is
waived if the owner is a farmer who is exempt from licensing under M.S. §
115.56, Subd. 2(b)(3), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (5)   Operating permits shall be valid for the specific term stated on
the permit as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
      (6)   An operating permit must be renewed prior to its expiration. If not
renewed, the Zoning Administrator may require the system to be removed from
service or operated as a holding tank until the permit is renewed. If not
renewed within 90 calendar days of the expiration date, the Zoning
Administrator may require that the system be abandoned in accordance with
division (J)(5) above.
      (7)   Operating permits do not transfer to new property owners. New
owners shall apply for an operating permit in accordance with this section. The
Zoning Administrator shall not terminate the current permit until 90 calendar
days after the date of sale, unless an imminent threat to public health and
safety exists. When considering the new owner's application, the Zoning
Administrator may require a performance inspection of the treatment system
certified by a licensed inspector or qualified employee.
      (8)   A report shall be prepared and certified by the licensed inspection
business or licensed service provider. The report shall be submitted to the
Zoning Administrator on a form provided by the Zoning Administrator on or
before the compliance reporting date stipulated in the operating permit as
required. The report shall contain a description of all maintenance and
servicing activities performed since the last compliance monitoring report as
described in the operating permit.
      (9)   The Zoning Administrator may suspend or revoke any operating permit
issued under this section for any false statements or misrepresentations of
facts on which the operating permit was issued.
      (10)   If suspended or revoked, the Zoning Administrator may require that
the treatment system be removed from service, operated as a holding tank or
abandoned.
      (11)   At the Zoning Administrator's sole discretion, the operating
permit may be reinstated or renewed upon the owner taking appropriate
corrective actions.
   (X)   Compliance inspection program.
      (1)   Zoning Administrator responsibility.
         (a)   It is the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator, or its
agent, to perform installation inspections of new SSTS or upgrades of SSTS to
assure that the requirements of this section are met.
         (b)   All compliance inspections must be performed and signed by
licensed inspection businesses or qualified employees certified as inspectors.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall be given access to enter a
property at any reasonable time to inspect and/or monitor the SSTS system. As
used in this division, PROPERTY does not include a residence or private
building.
         (d)   No person shall hinder or otherwise interfere with the Zoning
Administrator's employees in the performance of their duties and
responsibilities pursuant to this section. Refusal to allow reasonable access
to the property by the Zoning Administrator may result in a determination of
noncompliance.
         (e)   At the Zoning Administrator's sole discretion, a signed winter
agreement may be accepted in lieu of a compliance inspection for property
transfers, permit applications and designs to the Zoning Administrator between
November 1 and April 30, provided that the required information is submitted to
the Zoning Administrator by June 1 of the subsequent year. Failure to fulfill
all the obligations of the winter agreement shall be a violation of this
section.
      (2)   New construction or replacement.
         (a)   New installation inspections must be performed on new or
replacement SSTS in accordance with Minn. Rules, Part 7082.0700. SSTS found to
be noncompliant with other applicable requirements must be repaired or
replaced.
         (b)   It is the responsibility of the SSTS owner or the owner's agent
to notify the Zoning Administrator 24 hours prior to the installation
inspection.
         (c)   If the installer provides proper notice and the Zoning
Administrator does not provide an inspection within one hour after an
inspection time was set, the installer may complete the construction per the
following: The installer shall submit photographs of the entire uncovered
system and an as-built drawing with a certified statement that the installation
of the SSTS met the appropriate standards of this section within five working
days of the installation.
         (d)   A certificate of installation for new SSTS construction or
replacement shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator within 30 days of
inspection if the Zoning Administrator has reasonable assurance that the system
was built in accordance with the applicable requirements as specified in the
construction permit.
         (e)   The certificate of installation must include a certified
statement by the certified inspector or qualified employee who conducted the
inspection that the SSTS is or is not in compliance with the section
requirements. If the SSTS is determined not to be in compliance with the
applicable requirements, a notice of noncompliance must be issued to the owner
which includes a statement specifying the city land use ordinance provisions
with which the SSTS does not comply.
         (f)   No SSTS shall be placed into operation until a valid certificate
of installation has been issued.
         (g)   Certificates of installation for new construction or replacement
shall remain valid for five years from the date of issue, unless the Zoning
Administrator finds evidence of noncompliance.
   (Y)   Existing systems.
      (1)   Compliance inspections shall be required when any of the following
conditions occur:
         (a)   When applying for a land use permit, shoreline alteration
permit, minor subdivision, plat, land use map amendment, conditional use permit
or variance and the certificate of installation is more than five years old or
the certificate of compliance is more than three years old.
         (b)   Within 90 days of conveyance of any real property and the
certificate of installation is more than five years old or the certificate of
compliance is more than three years old.
         (c)   Any time there is a change in use of the property being served
by an existing SSTS, which may impact the performance of the system.
         (d)   At any time as required by this section or the Zoning
Administrator deems appropriate, such as, upon receipt of a complaint or other
notice of a system malfunction.
         (e)   All owners of sewage treatment systems shall have the system
inspected, consistent with state guidelines, once each three years by a
certified sewage system inspector.
            1.   The person inspecting the system shall determine if the system
meets the compliance criteria contained in Minn. Rules, Part 7080.1500.
            2.   The person inspecting the system shall provide the city with a
statement that the system is in good working order, or specifying any defects
discovered and the date such defects were/will be corrected. The form shall
also indicate if and when the septic tank was pumped.
            3.   The Zoning Administrator, or assistant, shall have the
authority to verify the inspections and/or conduct inspections on behalf of the
city.
      (2)   Compliance inspections of existing SSTS shall be reported on the
inspection report forms provided by the MPCA. The following conditions, must be
assessed, or verified:
         (a)   Watertightness assessment of all treatment tanks including a
leakage report;
         (b)   Vertical separation distance between the bottom of the soil
treatment and dispersal system and the periodically saturated soil or bedrock,
including a vertical soil separation verification report unless soils have been
verified according to Minn. Rules, Part 7082.0700, Subpart 4(B).
         (c)   Sewage backup, surface seepage or surface discharge including a
hydraulic function report.
      (3)   The certificate of compliance must include a certified statement by
a qualified city employee or licensed inspection business, indicating whether
the SSTS is in compliance with the requirements of this section. If the SSTS is
determined to not be in compliance with the applicable requirements, a notice
of noncompliance must include a statement specifying those ordinance provisions
with which the SSTS does not comply. A construction permit application must be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator if the required corrective action is not
a minor repair.
      (4)   The certificate of compliance or notice of noncompliance must be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator no later than 15 calendar days after the
date the inspection was performed.
      (5)   Certificates of compliance for existing SSTS shall remain valid for
three years from the date of issue, unless the Zoning Administrator finds
evidence of noncompliance.
   (Z)   Transfer of property. Any property on which an SSTS is located shall
not be transferred or sold, unless the parties to the transaction have complied
with one of the following:
      (1)   A current certificate of compliance.
      (2)   A signed winter agreement per this section.
      (3)   In the event the seller does not provide a certificate of
compliance or compliant operating permit, the seller and buyer may establish a
written agreement or contract to repair, replace or upgrade the existing SSTS
according to the terms of this section.
      (4)   The buyer may accept total responsibility of the existing SSTS and
be responsible for the necessary upgrading. In the absence of a written
agreement according to this section, the buyer shall be responsible for the
necessary upgrading of said SSTS.
   (AA)   Commercial SSTS.
      (1)   Septic tank effluent testing for carbonaceous biochemical oxygen
demand (CBOD), biological oxygen demand (BOD), total suspended solids (TSS),
nitrogen and oil/grease combination is mandatory for all SSTS that serve
commercial establishments that serve food and beverages or have a flow that
exceeds 1,000 gallons per day as part of any compliance inspection.
      (2)   Effluent testing shall not be required for commercial SSTS that
have a current operating permit as of the date the ordinance codified herein is
effective. If all provisions of the operating permit are met, the SSTS shall be
considered to be in compliance.
      (3)   An SSTS with effluent testing that does not meet the standards in
Minn. Rules, Part 7080.2150, Subpart 3(K), shall be upgraded within three years
to meet said standards and be placed on an operating permit as provided in this
section.
   (BB)   Vertical separation reduction. Minn. Rules, Part 7080.1500, Subpart 4
(D), is hereby adopted allowing a 15% reduction in vertical separation distance
for settling of sand or soil, normal variation of measurements and
interpretations of the limiting layer for existing SSTS. This provision does
not apply to systems utilizing division (P) of this section of the land use
ordinance.
   (CC)   Enforcement. Enforcement of this section shall follow the standards
in §§
152.010,
152.011, and
152.999, herein.
   (DD)   State notification of violation. The Zoning Administrator shall
notify the MPCA of any inspection, installation, design, construction,
alteration or repair of an SSTS by a licensed/certified person or any septage
removal by a licensed maintainer that is performed in violation of the
provisions of this section. The Zoning Administrator shall also notify the MPCA
of any discovered straight pipes pursuant to M.S. § 115.55, Subd. 11, at it may
be amended from time to time.
   (EE)   Record keeping. The city shall maintain a current record of all
permitted systems. The record shall contain all permit applications, issued
permits, fees assessed, variance requests, certificates of compliance, notices
of noncompliance, enforcement proceedings, site evaluation reports, design
reports, record drawings, management plans, maintenance reports, operating
permits, an annual list of all sewage tanks installed in the city sorted by
licensed installation businesses and other records the city deems relevant to a
particular system.
   (FF)   Annual report. The Zoning Administrator shall provide an annual
report of SSTS permitting activities to MPCA no later than February 1 for the
previous calendar year.
   (GG)   Dispute resolution. Resolution of disputes between SSTS certified
individuals regarding conflicting compliance inspections, determination of
seasonally saturation of soils and other technical issues shall follow Minn.
Rules, Part 7082.0700, Subpart 5.
   (HH)   Agricultural and animal wastes. Within the shoreland area, 1,000 feet
from a lake or 300 feet from a watercourse, no waste products from agriculture
or animal husbandry operations shall be deposited by man at any greater rate
than the plant and soil system can absorb the nutrients; nor shall any wastes
be allowed to accumulate where surface waters flow directly to public waters or
watercourses. No livestock shall be allowed to water directly in a stream or
public water.
   (II)   Water supply.
      (1)   All potable water systems shall be connected to a municipal water
supply, if made available.
      (2)   All domestic and agricultural wells shall conform to the Minnesota
Department of Health standards for wells.
      (3)   All water systems shall meet the requirements of the Minnesota
Department of Health Standards for water systems.
      (4)   All wells being abandoned shall be sealed according to Minnesota
Department of Health standards and report to Minnesota Department of Health and
the city.
   (JJ)   Solid waste. All solid waste shall be disposed of in accordance with
the standards of Crow Wing County.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011; Ord. 906, 1st Series, 5-9-2017; Ord. 23-02,
passed 2-14-2023)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.076 ANIMAL HUSBANDRY.
   (A)   Pets. Pets shall be properly cared for, shall not be allowed to create
problems for neighbors or the city, or become a nuisance, and shall have
sanitary standards maintained consistent with §
152.075(C) of this chapter.
   (B)   Livestock.
      (1)   No feedlots are allowed.
      (2)   Farm animals may be raised as provided in zoning districts with
proper permits provided that the standards of each district are not
compromised.
      (3)   Farm animals shall be properly cared for, shall not create problems
for neighbors or the city and shall have sanitary standards maintained
consistent with §
152.075(C) of this chapter.
   (C)   Wild animals.
      (1)   The keeping of wild animals as pets, including, but not limited to,
primates and large carnivores is not allowed.
      (2)   Wildlife rehabilitation uses shall require a conditional use permit
and must meet the minimum standards established by the state’s Department of
Natural Resources, Minn. Rules Ch. 6244.
   (D)   Keeping of chickens in the Downtown Mixed Use and Neighborhood
Residential Zones.
      (1)   Definitions.
         AT LARGE. A chicken out of its chicken run, off the premises or not
under the custody and control of the owner, or other person, either by leash,
cord, or chain, or otherwise controlled or restrained.
         CHICKEN. A female chicken or hen. A rooster or male chicken is
expressly excluded from the definition of chicken and is prohibited.
         CHICKEN COOP. A structure providing housing for chickens made of wood
or other similar materials that provides shelter from the elements.
         CHICKEN RUN. A fenced outside yard for the keeping and exercising of
chickens.
         OWNER. The resident, property owner, custodian or keeper of any
chicken.
         PREMISES. Any platted lot or group of contiguous lots, parcels or
tracts of land.
      (2)   Chickens limited. It is unlawful for any person to own, control,
keep, maintain or harbor hen chickens on any residential premises in the city
unless issued a permit to do so as provided herein.
         (a)   Residential tenants. In the case of rental residential property,
including multi-family residential property, the property owner must obtain a
permit and written permission must be given by the property owner to the tenant
in order for a tenant to keep or harbor chickens on said residential premises.
         (b)   Property size. The keeping of chickens shall not be allowed on
properties less than 5,000 sq.ft. in size.
         (c)   Number limited. No permit shall be issued for the keeping or
harboring of more than 12 hen chickens.
         (d)   Roosters prohibited. The keeping of roosters or male chickens is
prohibited.
      (3)   Permit. The granting of a permit under this section shall be in the
sole discretion of the city. No person shall maintain a chicken coop and/or
chicken run unless granted a permit by the city. The permit shall be subject to
all terms and conditions of this section and any additional conditions deemed
necessary by the city to protect the public health, safety and welfare,
including any state or federal laws. The necessary permit may be obtained from
the City Clerk's office. Included with the information required prior to
issuance of the permit must be a scaled diagram that indicates the location of
any chicken coop and chicken run, and the approximate size and distance from
adjoining structures and property lines. The owner must also obtain written
approval of the keeping of chickens from all abutting property owners. Such
written approval from abutting property owners must be submitted to the city
before a permit is granted. A permit for the keeping of chickens may be revoked
or suspended by the Council for any violation of this section following written
notice and a public hearing.
      (4)   Chicken confinement. Every person who owns, controls, keeps,
maintains or harbors hen chickens must keep them confined on the premises at
all times in a chicken coop or chicken run while in the city. Any chicken coop
and or chicken run shall be screened with a solid fence or landscaped buffer
with a minimum height of four feet. Any chicken coop and chicken run shall be
at least 25 feet from any residential structure or any other premises on any
adjacent lots.
      (5)   Chicken coops and chicken runs.
         (a)   All chicken coops and chicken runs must be located within the
rear yard subject to the required setbacks for the principal building and at
least 25 feet from any dwelling or any other premises on any adjacent lots. All
chicken coops must be a minimum of four square feet per chicken in size, must
not exceed ten square feet per chicken in size and must not exceed six feet in
total height. Attached fenced-in chicken runs must not exceed 20 square feet
per chicken and fencing must not exceed six feet in total height. Chicken runs
may be enclosed with wood and/or woven wire materials, and may allow chickens
to contact the ground. Chicken feed must be kept in metal, predator proof
containers. Chicken manure shall not be placed in yard compost piles.
         (b)   Chicken coops must either be:
            1.   Elevated with a clear open space of at least 24 inches between
the ground surface and framing or floor of the coop; or
            2.   The coop floor, foundation and footings must be constructed
using rodent resistant construction.
         (c)   Chicken coops are not allowed to be located in any part of a
home and/or garage.
         (d)   Chickens must be secured in a chicken coop from sunset to
sunrise each day.
      (6)   Conditions and inspection. No person who owns, controls, keeps,
maintains or harbors chickens shall permit the premises where the chickens are
kept to be or remain in an unhealthy, unsanitary or noxious condition or to
permit the premises to be in such condition that noxious odors are carried to
adjacent public or private property. Any chicken coop and chicken run
authorized by permit under this section may be inspected at any reasonable time
by the city Animal Control Officer or other agent of the city. Slaughter and
breeding of chickens on any premises within the city is prohibited.
      (7)   Violations. Any person who owns, controls, keeps, maintains or
harbors chickens in the city limits without obtaining or maintaining a current
permit or after a permit has been suspended or revoked by council action shall
be guilty of a petty misdemeanor. Violations of this ordinance may also
constitute a nuisance and a person in violation may be liable for civil
damages, including costs and attorney fees to remedy the nuisance.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011; Ord., passed - -) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.077 TREE REMOVAL/WOODLAND PRESERVATION/SOIL EROSION PREVENTION.
   (A)   Diseased trees. Diseased or dead trees that pose a hazard shall be
removed immediately and disposed of and replaced with native tree species.
   (B)   Intensive clearing in shore and bluff setbacks. Intensive vegetation
clearing within the shore setbacks and on steep slopes is not allowed.
   (C)   Limited clearing in shore and bluff setbacks and overlays. Limited
clearing of trees and shrubs and cutting, pruning and trimming of trees to
accommodate the placement of stairways and landings, picnic areas, access paths
and beach and watercraft access areas, as well as providing a view to the water
from the principle dwelling site, in shore and bluff impact zones and on steep
slopes is allowed by permit; provided that:
      (1)   Screening of structures, vehicles and other facilities as viewed
from the water, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, is not substantially
reduced;
      (2)   Along rivers, existing shading of water is preserved; and
      (3)   No tree larger than four inches of diameter is removed, except to
accommodate a stairway or landing.
   (D)   Clearcutting. Vegetation removal, clear cutting, where allowed, must
be done according to Best Management Practices in Minnesota. Soil erosion must
be prevented and area storm water drainage patterns shall not be altered.
   (E)   Select or open cutting. Vegetation removal, select or open cutting,
where allowed, must be done according to Best Management Practices in
Minnesota. Reestablishing the same species removed shall occur when and where
possible.
   (F)   Grading. Any area disturbed during any grading operation shall have
the native topsoil augmented and the area shall be replanted with native
vegetation.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.078 PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   General. On-site parking or garage space shall be provided in all
districts, except as specifically exempted. There shall be adequate drive
access to prevent the need to back onto collector streets or county highways.
On-site parking spaces shall not be used for storage.
   (B)   Dimensions. Parking sites shall be a minimum of 20 feet long and ten
feet wide.
   (C)   Parking ratios. Parking shall be provided at the following ratios at a
minimum, except where exempted within §§
152.030 through
152.043 of this chapter or unless modified by conditional use permit:
      (1)   Two stalls per dwelling unit;
      (2)   One additional stall per employee in home occupation;
      (3)   One and one-half stalls per dwelling unit, multi-family over 20
units per complex, motel/hotel units;
      (4)   One stall per six seats: churches and other assembly places;
      (5)   One stall per 300 square feet of office space;
      (6)   One stall per 300 square feet of retail space; and
      (7)   One stall per six seats for restaurants.
   (D)   On-site parking. On-site parking shall not be closer than ten feet
from a lot line, except in the DMU District.
   (E)   Handicapped parking. Handicapped parking shall be required in
accordance with state law.
   (F)   Parking surfaces. All parking areas shall be adequately drained to a
pervious surface designed to allow entrapment of silts and nutrients prior to
discharge to a public water.
   (G)   Landscaping. More than five parking stalls contiguously located and
any commercial parking adjacent to residential shall be landscaped according to
a plan approved by the Zoning Administrator with review by the Planning
Commission.
   (H)   Loading, general. All required loading berths shall be off-street and
shall be located on the same lot as the principal use served. Loading shall not
occupy front yard space. Berths shall not be used for storage.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.079 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   When possible, existing natural drainageways, wetlands and
vegetated soil surfaces must be used to convey, store, filter and retain storm
water runoff before discharge to public waters.
      (2)   Development must be planned and conducted in a manner that will
minimize the extent of disturbed areas, runoff velocities, erosion potential
and reduce and delay runoff volumes. Disturbed areas must be stabilized and
protected as soon as possible and facilities and methods used to retain
sediment on the site.
      (3)   When development density, topographic features and soil and
vegetation conditions are not sufficient to adequately handle storm water
runoff using natural features and vegetation, various types of constructed
facilities such as diversions, settling basins, skimming devices, dikes,
waterways and ponds must be used. Preference must be given to designs using
surface drainage, vegetation and infiltration rather than buried pipes and
human-made materials and facilities.
   (B)   Drainage plan(s). All subdivisions shall contain provisions for
adequate surface or subsurface runoff of storm water and snow melt directed to
natural drainageways. A storm frequency of a five-year, 24-hour storm period
shall be provided for with no structural flooding or ponding.
   (C)   Natural drainage. All development shall provide for the continuance of
natural drainageways, and structures shall be so constructed as to be one foot
above the water level in the drainageway created by a storm of a 100-year
return period or a 1% chance of occurrence.
   (D)   Drainage structures. All drainage structures provided shall be
sufficient in size to pass a five-year, 24-hour storm to a natural drainageway
and to pass a 100-year, 24-hour storm along a drainageway.
   (E)   Drainage storage areas. The use of natural or human-made storm water
storage areas is encouraged. These areas should be vegetated and designed to
naturally lower after a storm.
   (F)   Filling. No filling of areas inundated by the 100-year, 24-hour storm
along drainageways shall be allowed, except by conditional use permit.
   (G)   Impervious areas. All parking areas, heavy areas, storage areas and
impervious areas shall be designed to allow entrapment of silts and nutrients
prior to discharge to a natural drainageway or public water.
   (H)   Public waters. Newly constructed storm water outfalls to public waters
must provide for filtering or settling of suspended solids and skimming or
surface debris before discharge.
   (I)   Erosion. Erosion control measures shall be provided in all areas
disturbed during any grading or construction. All areas disturbed shall be
covered with topsoils and seeded. Areas subject to concentrated runoff or
steeper than 3:1 shall be sodded, planted with appropriate deep-rooted
vegetation, or protected with an appropriate mulch cover as directed by the
City Engineer.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.080 GRADING.
   (A)   General. The following activities must be authorized by permit, except
for excavation for permitted structure, drives, sewer systems and parking
areas:
      (1)   Grading and filling in the shore or bluff impact zone; and
      (2)   Any alterations of the natural topography when the slope of the
land is toward a public water or watercourse involving the movement of more
than ten cubic yards of material in a bluff or shore impact zone or more than
50 cubic yards of material anywhere else within a shoreland area.
   (B)   Conditions. The following conditions shall apply.
      (1)   The smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for as short a time
as feasible.
      (2)   Four inches of topsoil is placed, temporary ground cover such as
mulch is used and permanent ground cover such as sod is planted.
      (3)   Methods to prevent erosion and trap sediment are employed.
      (4)   Fill is stabilized to acceptable engineering standards and must not
create an unstable slope.
      (5)   Plans to place fill or excavated material on steep slopes must be
reviewed by a qualified professional for continued slope stability and must not
create finished slopes of 30% or greater.
      (6)   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in bluff impact
zones.
      (7)   Fill placed in a public water below the ordinary high water line
requires a DNR waters permit and a Corps of Engineers permit.
      (8)   Excavation in the bed of public waters requires a DNR waters permit
and a Corps of Engineers permit.
      (9)   Only clean fill consisting of sand, gravel or rock will be allowed
where contact with water is anticipated. Mineral soil may be allowed elsewhere.
      (10)   Alterations to topography must only be allowed if they are
accessory to permitted or conditional uses and do not adversely affect adjacent
or nearby properties.
   (C)   Wetlands. Grading or filling in any protected wetland is prohibited
unless authorized by federal, state, county and local permitting agencies.
   (D)   Public waters. Connections to public waters of boat slips, canals,
lagoons, harbors and similar inland excavations are prohibited.
   (E)   Roads, driveways and parking areas. Public and private roads,
driveways and parking areas must be designed to take advantage of natural
vegetation and topography to achieve maximum screening from public waters.
      (1)   Roads, driveways and parking areas shall meet structure setbacks
and shall not be placed within bluff and shore impact zone, when other
reasonable and feasible placement alternative exist. If no alternatives exist,
they may be placed within these areas, and shall be designed to minimize
adverse impacts.
      (2)   Private watercraft access ramps, approach roads and access-related
parking areas are prohibited on lakes with public access or more than one
privately-owned but public access. On lakes with no public access, private
watercraft access ramps, approach roads and access-related parking areas may be
placed by permit within shore impact zones; provided, the vegetative screening
and erosion control conditions of this section are met.
   (F)   Ice ridges.
      (1)   Annual ice ridges may be regraded to their original shoreline
contour with a permit provided that the work is completed in the year in which
the annual ice ridge occurred. Any such regrading shall meet the following
standards:
         (a)   The ice ridge resulted from ice action within the last year.
         (b)   The total length of shoreline zone to be affected does not
exceed 50 feet.
         (c)   All ice ridge material that is composed of muck, clay, or
organic sediment is deposited and stabilized at an upland site above the
ordinary high water level of any public water.
         (d)   All ice ridge material that is composed of sand or gravel is
removed or graded to conform to the original cross-section and alignment of the
lakebed, with a finished surface at or below the ordinary high water level.
         (e)   No additional excavation or placement of fill material occurs on
the site.
         (f)   All exposed areas are immediately stabilized as needed to
prevent erosion and sedimentation.
         (g)   Removal or grading of an ice ridge must not disturb emergent
aquatic vegetation, unless authorized by an aquatic plant management permit
from the Department of Natural Resources or the Army Corps of Engineers.
      (2)   Historic ice ridges. On those ice ridges with well-established
vegetative cover, alterations for lake access shall require a permit and comply
with the following standards:
         (a)   One alteration site is allowed per conforming residential lot,
single nonconforming lot of record or per group of contiguous nonconforming
lots in the same ownership.
         (b)   On residential lots, the bottom width shall not exceed 15 feet,
with side slopes no steeper than 2:1 at each end.
         (c)   On waterfront commercial lots, the maximum bottom width shall be
25 feet with 2:1 side slopes at each end.
         (d)   Berms of no less than 12 inches above original grade level or
one foot above the OHWL. whichever is higher, shall be left on all ice ridge
alterations to prevent upland runoff entry.
         (e)   All disturbed material shall be removed from the site.
         (f)   Any alteration below the OHWL may require approval from the
Department of Natural Resources and/or U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
   (G)   Riprap. The city encourages the use of riprap only as a last resort to
control shoreline erosion. Other methods should be used, including the planting
of native, deep rooted vegetation. If riprap has been found to be the only tool
available following consultation with the Department of Natural Resources,
another appropriate state agency or the county at on on-site meeting attended
by a city representative, riprap installation shall have the following
standards.
      (1)   Gradation. A well-graded mixture of rock sizes should be used
instead of one uniform size.
      (2)   Quality of stone. Riprap must be durable so that freeze/thaw cycles
do not decompose it in a shore time; most igneous stones such as granite have
suitable durability.
      (3)   Riprap depth. The thickness of riprap layers should be at least two
times the maximum stone diameter.
      (4)   Vegetation.
         (a)   Existing vegetation on the shoreline and in the water should be
maintained without disturbance.
         (b)   All bare soil on the slope above the riprap should be stabilized
with seed and mulch or sod.
         (c)   Wooded, deep-rooted vegetation should be planted among the
riprap to help stabilize and create wildlife habitat.
      (5)   Filter material. Filter material is usually required between riprap
and the underlying soil surface to prevent soil from moving through the riprap;
a filter cloth material or a layer of gravel is usually used for the filter.
         (a)   Leaching protection. Leaching can be controlled by installing a
riprap gradation small enough to act as a filter against the channel base
material, or a protective filter can be installed between the riprap and the
base material.
         (b)   Riprap limits. The riprap should extend for a maximum flow
depth, or to a point where vegetation will be satisfactory to control erosion.
         (c)   Curves. Riprap should extend to five times the bottom width
upstream and downstream of the beginning and ending of the curve as well as the
entire curved section.
         (d)   Riprap size. The size of riprap to be installed depends on site-
specific conditions.
         (e)   Riprap prohibitions. Slopes on which riprap is used to stabilize
shorelines shall be no steeper than 2:1.
      (6)   Maintenance. Inspections should be made of all sites immediately
after the first rainfall following installation of riprap. This is particularly
important in areas where riprap that is displaced during the storm would impact
culverts. Thereafter, riprapped sites should be checked following large storms,
especially those which are near or exceed the storm frequency used in the
design. Displaced riprap should be removed from its downstream location and new
riprap placed according to the specifications above.
   (H)   Retaining walls. A retaining wall may be installed with a permit in-
between the OHWL and the structure setback provided the following standards are
met:
      (1)   (a)   The Zoning Administrator determines that there is no other
alternative to control erosion.
         (b)   No tier of the retaining wall shall exceed four feet in height
without a plan signed by a Minnesota licensed professional engineer.
         (c)   Construction complies with all impervious surface standards of
the zoning district.
         (d)   The wall cannot be longer than half the lot width or 30 feet in
length, whatever is more restrictive.
         (e)   All grading and filling standards of this chapter shall be
followed.
      (2)   A retaining wall may be installed without a permit behind the
structure setback provided that: Construction complies with all impervious
surface standards of the zone.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011; Ord. 906, 1st Series, passed 5-9-2017) Penalty,
see §
152.999
Editor’s note:
   This section was amended by the city at a public hearing on 9-5-2012.
§ 152.081 BOARDWALKS.
   Boardwalk used for lake access over wetlands within the structure setback
area shall require a permit and meet the following standards:
   (A)   Shall not exceed eight feet in width.
   (B)   May be placed on temporary or permanent supports.
   (C)   May have railings attached.
   (D)   Shall meet property line setbacks.
   (E)   All SWCD or DNR permitting must be followed, if required.
(Ord. 906, 1st Series, passed 5-9-2017) Penalty, see 152.999
§ 152.082 DECKS.
   Construction on new decks or replacement of existing decks (excluding
replacement of deck boards or railings) shall require permits and comply with
the following standards:
   (A)   Decks shall meet structure setbacks of this section, except as allowed
in division (D) below.
   (B)   A four-foot walkway attached to the dwelling, for access purposes, may
be added without a variance lake ward and located closer than the required
structure setback from the ordinary high water level. A permit shall not be
necessary for a four-foot walkway.
   (C)   Decks should be constructed as to be pervious with spacing in the deck
boards, allowing water to reach a pervious surface below the deck. Decks not
meeting this requirement shall be considered impervious surfaces.
   (D)   Decks that do not meet required setbacks from public waters may be
allowed without a variance to principle structures in existence prior to 7-1-
1995, if the following criteria are met:
      (1)   An evaluation of the property and structure reveals no reasonable
location for a deck meeting the OHW setback, as determined by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)   The deck encroachment toward the OHW docs not exceed 15% of the
existing public water setback and does not encroach any closer than 30 feet,
whichever is more restrictive.
      (3)   The deck is not roofed or screened.
      (4)   Maximum size of the deck is 200 square feet.
      (5)   No variance has been granted to encroach toward the lake since 7-1-
1995.
      (6)   The impervious surface coverage is not exceeded for the zoning
district.
(Ord. 906, 1st Series, passed 5-9-2017) Penalty, see 152.999
§ 152.083 PATIOS.
   Patios placed within the structure OHW setback shall require a permit.
   (A)   Patios within the OHW structure setback shall comply with the
following standards:
      (1)   Not be located within 50 feet of the OWH.
      (2)   Be free standing.
      (3)   Have no railings.
      (4)   Be a maximum of 200 square feet in size.
      (5)   Not be more than one foot below or above natural ground level.
      (6)   The maximum impervious surface limits for the lot shall not be
exceeded.
   (B)   Patios are allowed behind the structure setback without a permit
provided that all setbacks are met and the property does not exceed the maximum
allowable impervious surface standards.
(Ord. 906, 1st Series, passed 5-9-2017) Penalty, see 152.999
§ 152.084 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND CAMPING.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   All recreational vehicles (RV) must be designated to operate on
roads without a special permit and must have a current license. These
provisions apply to all recreational vehicles, including fish houses that are
licensed as such.
      (2)   RV's must meet dwelling setbacks requirements for the zone they are
located in.
      (3)   Prior to placing an RV, the occupant must have the permission of
the property owner. The permission must be written when the property owner is
not available on site while the RV is present.
      (4)   A permit for an RV requires documentation that domestic sewage will
be handled in accordance with the city's sanitation standards. An annual permit
for an RV is allowed to utilize a temporary/portable outhouse or documentation
of dump station use. A long-term RV permit requires that a permanent septic
system is installed or a privy/holding tank (type II system) is installed on
the property.
   (B)   Properties with principle dwelling.
      (1)   There shall be a maximum of four units allowed at any one time.
      (2)   No individual RV may be placed for longer than 14 total days within
any 60 days.
      (3)   No more than three recreational vehicles may be allowed in outside
storage. These units may be stored year-round.
   (C)   Properties without principle dwelling.
      (1)   There shall be a maximum of four units allowed at any one time.
      (2)   Each individual RV is allowed for 14 total days in any one calendar
year without a permit.
      (3)   A permit is required for RV's established for more than 14 days
within a calendar year subject to the standards below.
         (a)   In the Shoreline Residential zone, one recreation vehicle shall
be allowed with an annual permit or a long-term permit on all parcels.
         (b)   In all other zones where RV's are allowed, one recreation
vehicle shall be allowed with an annual permit or a long-term permit on parcels
less than one acre. Properties one acre or more in size shall be allowed two
recreational vehicles with either annual or long-term permits.
      (4)   No outside storage of RV's is allowed on lots without a principal
dwelling structure.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011; Ord. 906, passed 4-12-2016; Ord. 906, 1st
Series, passed 5-9-2017)
§ 152.085 PARK MODELS: PARK MODEL STANDARDS.
   Park model travel trailers can be utilized within the city to allow
temporary housing. Park models do not meet the city’s minimum dwelling size
requirements and thus arc not intended to be for year round use, but for
temporary use, for seasonal visitors to enjoy the amenities the city has to
offer.
   (A)   One park model per parcel shall be allowed.
   (B)   Park models shall meet all dwelling setbacks for the zone.
   (C)   The park model shall be connected to city sewer or an SSTS if city
sewer is not available. Holding tanks are allowed as long as they are a minimum
of 1,500 gallons in size and maintained by a licensed septic pumper.
   (D)   A septic pumping log shall be maintained by the landowner and be
available for inspection by the zoning administrator, if hooked up to a private
SSTS holding tank.
   (E)   Park models may maintain on wheels, to be moved if required.
   (F)   Conditions may be applied to the permit, as deemed necessary, by the
Council to protect the health, safety and welfare of die community.
(Ord. 906, 1st Series, passed 5-9-2017)
§ 152.086 CONTROLLED ACCESS LOTS.
   (A)   Controlled access lots, or any lot, tract or parcel of land, however
designated or described, intended to be used to provide accesses to public
waters for owners of non-riparian lots within new lot splits or subdivision by
meets and bounds, are prohibited.
   (B)   Control access lots or parcels of land that provide access to public
waters for owners of riparian or non-riparian lots within subdivisions or
plats, shall be used where the Planning Commission/Board of Adjustment
determines that direct riparian access is not feasible due to the presence of
protected vegetation, wetlands or other critical fish or wildlife habitat.
(Ord. 906, 1st Series, passed 5-9-2017)
§ 152.087 WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS (WECS).
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish standards and
procedures by which the installation and operation of wind energy conversion
systems (WECS) shall be governed within the city.
   (B)   Application; conditional use permit required.
      (1)   (a)   Generally. The erection of a wind energy conversion system
shall require approval of a conditional use permit, according to §
152.155 (conditional use permits) of this chapter.
         (b)   Commercial wind energy conversion systems; conditional uses
withing certain districts. Commercial wind energy conversion systems shall only
be allowed as conditional uses within the Forest Residential, Forest
Preservation and Rural Preservation Districts on lots at least ten acres in
area. The acreage restriction is required to protect WECS from encroachment by
other uses or structures and to accommodate required setback between the WECS
and property lines.
         (c)   Noncommercial wind energy conversion systems; conditional uses
withing certain districts. Noncommercial wind energy conversion systems shall
be allowed as conditional uses within the Forest Preservation, Forest
Residential, Shoreline Residential, Neighborhood Residential and Open Space
Zoning Districts of the city, subject to the regulations and requirements of
this chapter, provided the property upon which the system is to be located is
constructed and maintained on any parcel of at least two and one-half acres in
size. The acreage restriction is required to protect WECS from encroachment by
other uses or structures and to accommodate required setback between the WECS
and property lines.
         (d)   Site plan drawing. All applications for a WECS conditional use
permit shall be accompanied by a detailed site plan drawn to scale and
dimensioned, displaying the information as specified in this chapter (site plan
review) including the following:
            1.   Location and height of all buildings, structures, aboveground
utilities, and trees on the lot, including both existing and proposed
structures and guy wire anchors.
            2.   Location and height of all adjacent buildings, structures,
aboveground utilities, and trees located within 350 feet of the exterior
boundaries of the property in question.
            3.   Sketch elevation drawing of the premises accurately depicting
the proposed WECS and its relationship to structures on the subject site and
adjacent lots.
            4.   A description of the project including: nameplate generating
capacity, proposed tower height, and proposed rotor diameter.
            5.   Engineer's certification of structure design, electrical
design, and fall zone.
            6.   An elevation drawing of the premises accurately depicting the
proposed WECS and its relationship to structures on the subject site and
adjacent lots.
            7.   In addition, applications for commercial WECS shall include:
               a.   An FAA permit application, if required.
               b.    A decommissioning plan.
         (e)   Declaration of conditions. The Planning Commission may recommend
and the City Council may impose such conditions on the granting of a WECS
conditional use permit as may be necessary to carry out the purpose and
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Code compliance.
      (1)   Compliance with state building code. Standard drawings of the
structural components of the wind energy conversion system and support
structures, including base and footings shall be provided along with
engineering data and calculations to demonstrate compliance with the structural
design provisions of the state building code. Drawings and engineering
calculations shall be certified by a Minnesota licensed engineer.
      (2)   Compliance with national electrical code. WECS electrical equipment
and connections shall be designed and installed in adherence to the national
electrical code as adopted by the city.
   (D)   Warranty. Applicant shall provide documentation or other evidence from
the dealer or manufacturer that the WECS has been successfully operated in
atmospheric conditions similar to the conditions within the city. The WECS
shall be warranted against any system failures reasonably expected in severe
weather operation conditions.
   (E)   Design standards. 
      (1)   Heights.
         (a)   The permitted maximum height of a WECS shall be determined in
one of two ways. In determining the height of the WECS the total height of the
system shall be included. System height shall be measured from the base of the
tower to the highest possible extension of the rotor.
            1.   A ratio of one foot to one foot (1:1) between the distance of
the closest property line to the base of the WECS to the height of the system.
            2.   A maximum system height of 175 feet.
         (b)   The shortest height of the two above mentioned methods shall be
used in determining the maximum allowable height of a WECS system. The height
of a WECS must also comply with FAA regulation part 77 Objects Affecting
Navigable Air Space and/or MNDOT Rule 14, M.C.A.R. 1.3015 Criteria for
Determining Obstruction to Air Navigation.
      (2)   Setbacks. No part of a WECS (including guy wire anchors) shall be
located within or above any required front, side, or rear yard setback. WECS
towers shall be setback from the closest property line one foot for every one
foot of system height. WECS shall not be located within 30 feet of an
aboveground utility line.
      (3)   Rotor size. All WECS rotors shall not have rotor diameters greater
than 26 feet.
      (4)   Rotor clearance. Blade arcs created by the WECS shall have a
minimum of 30 feet of clearance over any structure or tree within a 200-foot
radius.
      (5)   Rotor safety. Each WECS shall be equipped with both a manual and
automatic braking device capable of stopping the WECS operation in high winds
(40 miles per hour or greater).
      (6)   Lightning protection. Each WECS shall be grounded to protect
against natural lightning strikes in conformance with the national electrical
code as adopted by the city.
      (7)   Tower access. To prevent unauthorized climbing, WECS towers must
comply with one of the following provisions:
         (a)   Tower climbing apparatus shall not be located within 12 feet of
the ground.
         (b)   A locked anti-climb device shall be installed on the tower.
         (c)   Towers capable of being climbed shall be enclosed by a locked,
protective fence at least six feet high.
      (8)   Signs. WECS shall have one sign, not to exceed two square feet
posted at the base of the tower and said sign shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   Warning high voltage;
         (b)   Manufacturer's name;
         (c)   Emergency phone number; and
         (d)   Emergency shutdown procedures.
      (9)   Lighting. WECS shall not have affixed or attached any lights,
reflectors, flasher, or any other illumination, except for illumination devices
required by FAA regulations part 77 Objects Affecting Navigable Air Space and
FAA Advisory circular 70/7460-1F, September 1978 Obstruction Marking and
Lighting.
      (10)   Electromagnetic interference. WECS shall be designed and
constructed so as not to cause radio and television interference.
      (11)   Noise emission. Noises emanating from the operation of WECS shall
be in compliance with and regulated by the State of Minnesota Pollution Control
Standards, Minn. Regs. NPC 1 and 2, as amended.
      (12)   Utility company interconnection. No WECS shall be interconnected
with a local electrical utility company until the utility company has reviewed
and commented upon it. The interconnection of the WECS with the utility company
shall adhere to the national electrical code as adopted by the city.
   (F)   Ornamental wind devices. Ornamental wind devices that are not a WECS
shall be exempt from the provisions of this section and shall conform to other
applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   Inspection. The city hereby reserves the right upon issuing any WECS
conditional use permit to inspect the premises on which the WECS is located. If
a WECS is not maintained in operational condition and poses a potential safety
hazard, the owner shall take expeditious action to correct the situation.
   (H)   Abandonment.  Any WECS or tower which is not used for six successive
months shall be deemed abandoned and shall be dismantled and removed from the
property at the expense of the property owner.
§ 152.088 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Accessory use.
      (1)   Roof mounted solar energy systems shall be allowed as a permitted
accessory use in all zoning districts in accordance with the standards in this
section and all ground mounted shall be considered by conditional use permit.
      (2)   The following systems shall be exempt from the requirements of this
section and shall be regulated as any other building element:
         (a)   Building integrated solar energy systems that are an integral
part of a principal or accessory building, rather than a separate mechanical
device, replacing or substituting for an architectural element or structural
component including, but not limited to, photovoltaic or hot water solar energy
systems contained within roofing materials, windows, skylights, and awnings;
and
         (b)   Passive solar energy systems that capture solar light or heat
without transforming it into another form of energy or transferring the heat
via a heat exchanger.
   (B)   System standards.
      (1)   Electrical.
         (a)   All utilities shall be installed underground.
         (b)   An exterior utility disconnect switch shall be installed at the
electric meter serving the property.
         (c)   Solar energy systems shall be grounded to protect against
natural lightning strikes in conformance with the national electrical code as
adopted by the city.
         (d)   No solar energy system shall be interconnected with a local
electrical utility company until the utility company has reviewed and commented
upon it. The interconnection of the solar energy system with the utility
company shall adhere to the national electrical code as adopted by the city.
      (2)   Maximum area. Ground mounted solar energy systems shall be limited
to 25% of the total impervious surface for the lot or 1,000 square feet of
coverage, whichever is more restrictive.
      (3)   Color. All roof mounted solar energy systems shall use colors that
are the same or similar with the color of the roof material of the building on
which the system is mounted.
   (C)   Location.
      (1)   Roof mounting.
         (a)   The solar energy system shall comply with the maximum height
requirements of the applicable zoning district.
         (b)   The solar energy system shall not extend beyond the perimeter of
the exterior walls of the building on which it is mounted.
      (2)   Ground mounting.
         (a)   The solar energy system shall only be located in the rear yard
as defined by this chapter.
         (b)   The solar energy system shall comply with the maximum height
requirements for accessory buildings for the applicable zoning district.
         (c)   All components of the solar energy system shall be set back a
minimum of five feet from interior side lot lines and ten feet from rear lot
lines.
         (d)   Solar energy systems shall not encroach upon drainage and
utility easements.
   (D)   Screening. Solar energy systems shall be screened in accordance with
the requirements of this chapter to the extent possible without affecting their
function.
   (E)   Certification. The solar energy system shall be certified by
Underwriters Laboratories, inc., and comply with the requirements of the
international building code.
   (F)   Abandonment. Any solar energy system which is inoperable for 12
successive months shall be deemed to be abandoned and shall be deemed a public
nuisance. The owner shall remove the abandoned system at their expense after
obtaining a demolition permit.
   (G)   Permit. A land use or conditional use permit shall be obtained for any
solar energy system prior to installation.
§ 152.089 ANTENNAS AND TOWERS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANTENNA. Equipment used for transmitting or receiving telecommunications,
television, or radio signals, which is located on the exterior of, or outside
of, any building or structure.
      TOWER. Any pole, spire, or structure, or any combination thereof, to
which an antenna is attached, or which is designed for an antenna to be
attached, and all supporting lines, cables, wires, and braces.
   (B)   Permit required; exemptions.
      (1)   Permit required. No antenna or tower of any kind shall hereafter be
erected, constructed, or placed, or re erected, reconstructed, or re placed,
anywhere within the city without first making an application for and obtaining
from the city a permit therefor.
      (2)   Exemptions. No permit shall be required for the following:
         (a)   All towers and antennas which do not exceed six feet in height;
         (b)   Antennas and towers used by the city for city purposes; or
         (c)   Antennas or towers erected temporarily for test purposes,
emergency communication, or for broadcast remote pickup operations, provided
that all requirements of divisions (D) through (F) are met, with the exception
of division (D)(6), which is waived. Temporary antennas shall be removed within
72 hours.
   (C)   Application; fee. All applications for a permit required by this
chapter shall be by land use permit and shall be accompanied by a fee as set
forth in the Fee Schedule Ordinance on file in the city offices.
   (D)   Construction requirements and restrictions. All antennas and towers
for which a permit is required shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Antennas and towers shall be grounded for protection against a
direct strike by lightning and shall comply, as to electrical wiring and
connections, with all applicable city and state statutes, regulations, and
standards.
      (2)   No antenna or tower shall exceed a height equal to the distance
from the base of the antenna or tower to the nearest overhead electrical power
line (except individual service drops), or less than five feet.
      (3)   Antennas and towers shall be protected to discourage climbing by
unauthorized persons.
      (4)   No antenna or tower shall have affixed to it in any way any lights,
reflectors, flashers, or other illuminating device, or any signs, banners, or
placards of any kind, except one sign not over ten square inches indicating the
name of the manufacturer and installer.
      (5)   No tower shall have constructed thereon, or attached thereto, in
any way, any platform, catwalk, crow's nest, or similar structure.
      (6)   All towers shall be constructed of corrosive resistant steel or
other corrosive resistant, non combustible materials. Towers shall not be
constructed or made of wood, including timber or logs.
      (7)   No part of any antenna or tower, nor any lines, cables, equipment,
wires, or braces used in connection with any tower or antenna shall, at any
time, extend across or over any part of a street, sidewalk, or alley.
      (8)   Any person erecting an antenna or tower within the city shall show
proof of liability insurance covering personal injury or property damage in the
event that damage or injury is caused by the structure.
   (E)   Location restrictions.
      (1)   No part of any tower or antenna shall be constructed, located, or
maintained, at any time, permanently or temporarily, within any setback
required by this chapter for a principal or accessory structure for the zoning
district in which the antenna or tower is located.
      (2)   No antenna or tower shall be constructed, located, or maintained at
any time, permanently or temporarily, in the front yard of any residential
district.
      (3)   No person shall erect more than one antenna or tower on a
residential parcel within the city.
   (F)   Telecommunications facilities.
      (1)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this division is to establish
predictable and balanced regulations for the siting and screening of wireless
telecommunication equipment in order to accommodate the growth of wireless
communication systems within the city while protecting the public against any
adverse impacts on the city's aesthetic resources and the public welfare. This
division recognizes that these wireless communication systems provide a
valuable service to the public but that they are not a public utility. This
division creates two categories of support structures for antennas. The first
category consists of existing towers, water towers, and high density
residential and non residential buildings, which this section favors in order
to minimize the number of free standing towers needed to serve the community.
The second category consists of all other support structures. The structures in
this second category are all classified as free standing telecommunications
towers even if they are intended to replace existing light poles, utility
poles, or similar structures. Free standing towers are subject to increased
standards to minimize their visual impact. One such standard is that towers
must use state of the art stealth design techniques to disguise the towers and
soften their views. A telecommunications company that does not currently use
stealth technology will need to develop this capability in order to place free
standing towers in this city. This section does not accept the lowest common
denominator and challenges the telecommunications companies to improve their
technology. This section allows minimal use of the public right of way for
telecommunication antennas because that space should be reserved for public
utilities and should be free of safety hazards. In addition, telecommunications
facilities located in the right of way have the potential of being very visible
to the traveling public. In order to locate in a public right of way,
telecommunications companies must use improved technology to reduce the size
and visibility of their facilities.
      (2)   Definitions. For the purposes of this division, the terms below
have the meaning given to them, unless the context clearly indicates a
different meaning:
         ACCESSORY EQUIPMENT. The wires, cables, and other equipment or
facilities that are used with antennas.
         ANTENNA. A device used for transmitting or receiving
telecommunication, television or radio signals that is used for personal
wireless telecommunication service or any other purpose, except a device used
for the private enjoyment of those on the premises where it is located, such as
amateur radio antennas and antennas receiving television signals for viewing on
site. ANTENNA also does not include a lightning rod.
         ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE. An existing structure that is a
telecommunications tower, high density residential or non residential building,
water tower, or electric transmission tower carrying over 200 kilo volts of
electricity, that can be used for the location of antennas without increasing
the mass of the existing structure.
         ENGINEER. An engineer licensed by the state of Minnesota, or an
engineer acceptable to the city if licensing is not available.
         STEALTH DESIGN. State of the art design techniques used to blend the
object into the surrounding environment and to minimize the visual impact as
much as reasonably possible. Examples of stealth design techniques include
eliminating all horizontal projections; architecturally screening roof mounted
antennas and accessory equipment; integrating telecommunications facilities
into architectural elements; nestling telecommunications facilities into the
surrounding landscape so that the topography or vegetation reduces their view;
using the location that would result in the least amount of visibility to the
public, minimizing the size and appearance of the telecommunications
facilities; and designing telecommunications towers to appear other than as
towers, such as light poles, power poles, flag poles, and trees.
         TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES. Antennas, accessory equipment, and
telecommunications towers.
         TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER or TOWER. A free standing, self supporting
lattice, guyed, or monopole structure constructed from grade intended to
support antennas, except towers used for amateur radio operations.
      (3)   Administrative approval.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator may grant administrative approval of
the following telecommunication facilities:
            1.   Telecommunications facilities located on electric transmission
towers carrying over 200 kilo volts of electricity.
            2.   Telecommunication facilities located on an antenna support
structure that has already been approved by a conditional use permit as the
location for a telecommunication facility, if the proposed facility does not
involve a variance and is not accompanied by any other matter requiring
consideration by the Planning Commission or City Council.
            3.   A one-time 15-foot extension of an existing monopole
telecommunications structure or one time replacement of an existing monopole by
a tower no greater than 15 feet taller than the existing monopole may be
administratively approved if the proposed facility does not involve a variance
and is not accompanied by any other matter requiring consideration by the
Planning Commission and City Council; and
            4.   Telecommunication facilities that are attached to an existing
public utility structure within a right of way if:
               a.   The telecommunication facility does not extend above the
top of the existing utility structure and the height of the existing utility
structure is not increased to accommodate the telecommunication facility;
               b.   Any replacement utility structure does not exceed the
height of the existing utility structure, including the telecommunication
facility, and does not exceed the diameter of the existing utility structure by
more than 50%;
               c.   The telecommunication facility is no larger than three
cubic feet and has no individual surface larger than four square feet;
               d.   The telecommunication facility uses stealth design as much
as possible, but in no event extends outward from the utility structure beyond
two and one-half feet or three feet for an antenna that is one-half inch in
diameter or less;
               e.   There is no ground mounted equipment;
               f.   There is no interference with public safety communications
or with the original use of the public utility structure; and
               g.   The telecommunication facility must be removed and
relocated when the road authority requires the removal and relocation of the
public utility structure.
         (b)   Administrative review and approval is subject to the following:
            1.   Submittal of a complete site and building plan review
application, accompanied by a registered land survey, complete site plan,
building elevations, and antenna elevations and be signed by a registered
architect, civil engineer, landscape architect or other appropriate design
professional;
            2.   Submittal of an analysis prepared by a radio or electrical
engineer demonstrating that the proposed location of the antennas is necessary
to meet the coverage and capacity needs of the applicant's system. The
applicant must also pay the reasonable expenses of a radio or electrical
engineer retained by the city, at its option, to review this analysis; and
            3.   Submittal of any necessary easements and easement exhibits,
which have been prepared by an attorney knowledgeable in the area of real
estate and which are subject to the city attorney's approval.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator will render a decision within 30 days
and serve a copy of the decision upon the applicant by mail.
         (d)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Zoning Administrator
may appeal the decision to the Planning Commission.
      (4)   Conditional use. Telecommunications facilities that are not
eligible for administrative approval under division (F)(3)(c)3. are permitted
only as a conditional use in all zoning districts and must be in compliance
with the provisions of this section.
         (a)   Conditional use telecommunication facilities are subject to the
review procedures outlined in §
152.087.
         (b)   Conditional use telecommunications facilities are subject to the
following standards:
            1.   Residential and commercial zoning districts.
               a.   Telecommunication facilities may be located only on public
or institutional property: in R-1 and R-2 Residential Districts and on property
guided for low density residential in planned unit development districts
subject the standards listed in divisions (4)(b)1.b. to (4)(b)1.e.. which
follow;
               b.   An applicant must provide an analysis prepared by a radio
or electrical engineer demonstrating that the proposed location of the antennas
is necessary to meet the coverage and capacity needs of its system and that
there is no existing antenna support structure that could adequately serve the
area if antennas were placed on it. The applicant must also pay the reasonable
expenses of a radio or electrical engineer retained by the city, at its option,
to review this analysis;
               c.   A telecommunications facility must use as many stealth
design techniques as reasonably possible. Economic considerations alone are not
justification for failing to provide stealth design techniques. The City
Council may require that a different location be used if it would result in
less public visibility, is available, and would meet the applicant's reasonable
capacity and coverage needs; and
               d.   A telecommunications tower and antennas, including
attachments other than lighting rods, must not exceed 75 feet in height,
measured from grade. The City Council may increase this height to 90 feet if
the increase in height would not have a significant impact on surrounding
properties because of proximity, topography or screening by trees or buildings
or would accommodate two or more users. The City Council may waive this height
standard for a tower used wholly or partially for essential public services,
such as public safety.
               e.   Telecommunications facilities may be located in public
right of way of a major collector or arterial roadway as defined in the
comprehensive plan, if they meet all of the following requirements:
                  (i)   The facility is not located adjacent to residentially
zoned property unless the applicant demonstrates by providing a study prepared
by a radio or electrical engineer demonstrating that the proposed location of
the antennas is necessary to meet the coverage and capacity needs of its system
and no other location is feasible in a non residential zone;
                  (ii)   The facility must use as many stealth design
techniques as reasonably possible. In particular, the antennas must be designed
to minimize their size and appearance. Economic considerations alone are not
justification for failing to provide stealth design techniques.
            2.   Commercial/Industrial Districts.
               a.   Antennas may be located in industrial districts on an
antenna support structure, a public utility facility, or a telecommunications
tower and may be on any right of way. Antennas on a right of way must also
comply with the requirements in division (F)(5)(k), below.
               b.   In commercial/industrial districts, a telecommunications
tower, including attachments other than lighting rods, may not exceed 150 feet
in height, measured from grade. The City Council may allow towers up to 199
feet high if the applicant can demonstrate that off site views of the tower
will be minimized by the topography of the site and surrounding area, the
location of the tower, the tower design, the surrounding tree cover and
structures, or the use of screening. The City Council may waive this height
standard for a tower used wholly or partially for essential public services,
such as public safety.
               c.   No part of a tower in an industrial district may have a
horizontal area of more than 500 square feet.
               d.   An applicant must provide an analysis prepared by a radio
or electrical engineer demonstrating that the proposed location of the antennas
is necessary to meet the coverage and capacity needs of its system and that
there is no existing antenna support structure that could adequately serve the
area if antennas were placed on it. The applicant must also pay the reasonable
expenses of a radio or electrical engineer retained by the city, at its option,
to review this analysis.
               e.   A telecommunications facility must use as many stealth
design techniques as reasonably possible. Economic considerations alone are not
justification for failing to provide stealth design techniques. The City
Council may require that a different location be used if it would result in
less public visibility, is available, and would meet the applicant's reasonable
capacity and coverage needs.
      (5)   General standards. The following standards apply to all
telecommunications facilities.
         (a)   Vertical projection on antenna support structures. Antennas
mounted on an antenna support structure must not extend more than 15 feet above
the height of the structure to which they are attached. Wall or facade mounted
antennas may not extend above the cornice line and must be constructed of a
material or color that matches the exterior of the building.
         (b)   Horizontal projection. Antennas must not project out from the
side of the antenna support structure or tower, unless it is physically
impossible to locate the antennas within the structure or tower, in which case
they must not project out by more than three feet by more than three feet.
         (c)   Setbacks. A tower adjacent to a R-1, R-2, or R-3 zoning district
must meet the building setback that is established for the district where it is
to be located, but only from the residential zone. This setback is not required
for a tower in a right of way. The city may waive this setback requirement if
necessary to implement stealth design techniques or if the residentially zoned
property is public or institutional property. An accessory equipment cabinet
that is greater than 120 square feet in size must be at least ten feet from all
property lines.
         (d)   Height. The height of an antenna and tower must be the minimum
necessary to meet the applicant's coverage and capacity needs, as verified by
an electrical engineer or other appropriate professional. The City Council may
waive this requirement if additional height is appropriate for co-location
opportunities.
         (e)   Exterior surfaces. Towers and antennas must be painted a non
contrasting color consistent with the surrounding area such as: blue, gray,
brown, or silver, or have a galvanized finish to reduce visual impact. Metal
towers must be constructed of, or treated with, corrosion resistant material.
         (f)   Ground mounted equipment. Ground mounted accessory equipment or
buildings must be architecturally designed to blend in with the surrounding
environment, including the principal structure, or must be screened from view
by suitable vegetation, except where a design of non vegetative screening
better reflects and complements the character of the surrounding neighborhood.
No more than one accessory building is permitted for each tower. Additional
space needed for the co location of antennas must be added to an existing
accessory building in a manner to make it appear as one building. Design of the
building or equipment cabinet, screening and landscaping are subject to a site
plan review under this chapter.
         (g)   Construction. Telecommunications facilities must be in
compliance with all building and electrical code requirements. A tower must be
designed and certified by an engineer to be structurally sound and in
conformance with the building code. Structural design, mounting and
installation of the telecommunications facilities must be in compliance with
the manufacturer's specifications.
         (h)   Co-location opportunity. If a new tower over 60 feet in height
is to be constructed:
            1.   The tower must be designed to accommodate both the applicant's
antennas and antennas for at least one additional comparable user;
            2.   The tower must be designed to accept antennas mounted at
additional heights;
            3.   The applicant, the tower owner, the landowner, and their
successors must allow the shared use of the tower if an additional user agrees
in writing to meet reasonable terms and conditions for shared use, must submit
a dispute over the potential terms and conditions to binding arbitration, and
must sign the conditional use permit agreeing to these requirements. The City
Council may waive these co location requirements if necessary to implement
stealth design.
         (i)   External messages. No advertising message or identification sign
larger than two square feet may be affixed to the telecommunications
facilities.
         (j)   Lighting. Telecommunications facilities may not be artificially
illuminated unless required by law or by a governmental agency to protect the
public's health and safety or unless necessary to facilitate service to ground
mounted equipment.
         (k)   Rights-of-way. All telecommunication facilities in a public
right of way must comply with the following:
            1.   Telecommunications facilities located within a right of way
must not negatively impact the public health, safety and welfare, interfere
with the safety and convenience of ordinary travel over the right of way, or
otherwise negatively impact the right of way or its users. In determining
compliance with this standard, the city may consider one or more of the
following factors:
               a.   The extent to which right of way space where the permit is
sought is available, including the placement of the ground equipment;
               b.   The potential demands for the particular space in the right
of way;
               c.   The availability of other locations in a right of way that
would have less public impact;
               d.   The extent to which the placement of the telecommunications
facilities minimizes impacts on adjacent property; and
               e.   The applicability of ordinances or other regulations of the
right of way that affect location of equipment in the right of way;
            2.   The facility, including attachments other than lighting rods,
may not exceed 60 feet in height measured from grade in residential and
commercial zones, or 75 feet in industrial zones. The City Council may waive
this height standard for a facility used wholly or partially for essential
public services, such as public safety;
            3.   The support structure for the antennas cannot exceed the
diameter of the closest public utility pole by more than 50%, but in no event
may exceed 18 inches in diameter;
            4.   Antennas and other components must not project out from the
side of the support structure by more than two feet in residential and
commercial districts or three feet in industrial districts;
            5.   The support structure for the antennas must match the
materials and color of the closest public utility structures in the right of
way, if required by the Director of Planning;
            6.   Ground mounted equipment will be allowed only if:
               a.   The equipment will not disrupt traffic or pedestrian
circulation;
               b.   The equipment will not create a safety hazard;
               c.   The location of the equipment minimizes impacts on adjacent
property; and
               d.   The equipment will not adversely impact the health, safety,
or welfare of the community;
            7.   Ground mounted equipment must be:
               a.   Set back a minimum of ten feet from the existing or planned
edge of the pavement;
               b.   Separated from a sidewalk or trail by a minimum of three
feet;
               c.   Set back a minimum of 50 feet from the nearest intersection
right of way line;
               d.   Set back a minimum of 50 feet from the nearest principal
residential structure;
               e.   Separated from the nearest ground mounted telecommunication
facilities in a right of way by at least 330 feet;
               f.   No larger than three feet in height above grade and 27
cubic feet in size in residential districts;
               g.   No larger than five feet in height above grade and 81 cubic
feet in size in non residential districts; and
               h.   Screened by vegetative or other screening compatible with
the surrounding area if deemed necessary by the Zoning Administrator;
            8.   The antennas cannot interfere with public safety
communications;
            9.   The telecommunication facility must be removed and relocated
when the road authority requires the removal and relocation of public utility
structures; and
            10.   Telecommunications facilities within a right of way must
receive a right of way permit from the appropriate road authority.
         (l)   On site employees. There must be no employees on the site on a
permanent basis. Occasional or temporary repair and service activities are
allowed.
         (m)   Landowner authorization. When applicable, the applicant must
provide written authorization from the property owner. The property owner must
sign the conditional use permit agreeing to the permit conditions, agreeing to
remove the telecommunication facilities when they are unused, obsolete, or
become hazardous, and agreeing to the city's right to assess removal costs
under division (F)(5)(n), below.
         (n)   Removal. Obsolete telecommunications facilities must be removed
within 90 days after cessation of their use at the site, unless an exemption is
granted by the City Council. Unused telecommunications facilities and all
related equipment must be removed within one year after cessation of operation
at the site, unless an exemption is granted by the City Council.
Telecommunications facilities and related equipment that have become hazardous
must be removed or made not hazardous within 30 days after written notice to
the current owner and to any separate landowner, unless an exemption is granted
by the City Council. Notice may be made to the address listed in the
application, unless another one has subsequently been provided, and to the
taxpayer of the property listed in the Anoka or Ramsey County tax records.
Telecommunications facilities and all related equipment that are not removed
within this time limit are declared to be public nuisances and may be removed
by the city. The city may assess its costs of removal against the property.
         (o)   Historic places. No telecommunication tower may be located with
400 feet of the boundary of any property that contains a facility or structure
listed on the national register of historic places. Antennas may be located in
this restricted area only if they are hidden from public view.
   (G)   Height restrictions.
      (1)   No ground mounted antenna, tower, or tower with an antenna shall
exceed 75 feet in height, measured from the base of the tower or antenna,
whichever is lower, to the highest point of the antenna or tower, whichever is
higher.
      (2)   Towers mounted on a building or structure shall not extend over 25
feet above the highest point of the roof of the building or structure.
      (3)   The City Council may waive these restrictions if additional height
is appropriate for co-location opportunities.
   (H)   Variances. Variances from the literal provisions of this section shall
be processed and granted or denied in the same manner as variances are handled
under this chapter.
   (I)   Abandonment. At such time as the antenna or tower erected shall not be
used for its intended purpose for a period of one year, it shall be deemed to
be abandoned and must be removed within 90 days of notice by the city.
   (J)   Violations; remedies not exclusive.
      (1)   Misdemeanor. Any person who shall violate any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Remedies not exclusive. In addition to the penalties imposed by
this section, the city may exercise, with or separately from those penalties,
all and any other legal and equitable remedies then available to the city by
this section, or by statute, or by other ordinances of the city, or by
applicable rules or regulations, to enforce this section, including, without
limitation, injunction.
      (3)   Costs of enforcement. The person or persons violating this section
shall be jointly and severally liable for all costs incurred by the city in
enforcing this section against those persons, including, without limitation,
attorney's fees, witness fees, and administrative expenses, with interest on
those fees and expenses from the dates incurred until paid at the highest rate
then allowed by law, and shall also be jointly and severally liable for all
costs, including attorney's fees, of collecting the fees, expenses, and
interest, with interest of the costs and collection from the dates incurred
until paid, at the same rate as is payable on the fees and expenses.
SPECIAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.100 RURAL CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION (RCS).
   (A)   Development yield. All conservation subdivisions shall meet or exceed
the following standards.
      (1)   Land suitability. No land shall be developed which is held to be
unsuitable for any proposed use if identified as being environmentally
sensitive. Areas determined to be environmentally sensitive may be included as
common open space, but shall not be included in the development yield analysis.
Areas identified as being environmentally sensitive include, but are not
limited to:
         (a)   All areas designated as 100-year floodplain by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA);
         (b)   All wetlands, including a 30-foot buffer;
         (c)   All areas having slopes greater than 12%;
         (d)   All areas within 30 feet of the top or toe of a bluff; and
         (e)   All areas within 30 feet of either edge of a drainageway. If the
edges of a drainageway cannot be clearly established, the area defined as
environmentally sensitive shall include all areas within 50 feet of the
centerline of the drainageway or all areas that have a slope greater than 12%
extending from the centerline, whichever is more restrictive.
      (2)   Development yield. The applicant shall submit a table showing the
maximum number of dwelling units that would be permitted in the underlying
zoning district where the parent parcel is located. Where the parent parcel
encompasses multiple zoning districts, the maximum number of units shall
calculate the allowable density for each district separately, consistent with
the minimum lot size, lot widths, setbacks and other provisions of this
chapter. Land that is considered undevelopable, as described in division (A)(1)
above, shall be excluded from the development yield analysis. The total number
of units provided for within the development shall not exceed the amount
calculated in the development yield.
   (B)   Design criteria. The following design criteria shall apply to all
conservation developments.
      (1)   Minimum lot size and width. None, subject to compliance with
applicable standards for sewage disposal and the provision of water.
      (2)   Setbacks. All structures within the development shall maintain, at
a minimum, a 50-foot buffer along the perimeter of the development parcel, so
as to provide screening and buffering of the residential development on the
development parcel.
         (a)   Individual dwellings shall be separated by a minimum of ten feet
from other dwelling.
         (b)   Accessory buildings, unless attached as an integral part of the
dwelling, shall be separated by a minimum of ten feet from dwellings and other
accessory buildings.
         (c)   The Planning Commission may establish setbacks, as necessary to
buffer agricultural, forestry and water-use activities from residential uses.
         (d)   Larger setbacks may be required to provide safe distances
between highways and development on the parcel or when otherwise determined
necessary by the city to protect public health, safety or welfare.
      (3)   Maximum impervious coverage. The development shall be configured so
as to minimize the amount of impervious surfaces. The maximum impervious
coverage allowed, as measured across the whole of the development, shall be
restricted as in the underlying zoning district. When a parent parcel involves
multiple zoning districts, allowable impervious coverage in one district may be
partially or entirely transferred to another part of the parent parcel, as
allowed by the Planning Commission.
      (4)   Lots. Lots shall be configured to minimize the amount of road
length required for the development.
      (5)   Losses minimized. Individual lots and the overall development
envelope shall be configured to minimize the loss of woodlands and other
natural habitats.
      (6)   Usable area. If agricultural uses are being maintained, lots shall
be configured in a manner that maximizes the usable area remaining for such
agricultural uses with appropriate buffers between agricultural uses and
residential structures.
      (7)   Open space. All lots within a neighborhood shall abut open space on
at least one side. A local street may separate lots from the open space.
      (8)   Key features. Lots shall be oriented around a key feature,
including one or more of the following:
         (a)   A central green or square that is landscaped and/or has a
functional purpose for the residents living nearby, including, but not limited
to, shared mailboxes, a small park, a gazebo or benches.
         (b)   A physical amenity such as a meadow, a stand of trees or some
other natural or restored feature.
      (9)   Development envelopes. Development envelopes should not be located
on ridges, hilltops, bluffs, along peripheral public roads or in other visually
prominent areas.
      (10)   Solar gain. Residential structures shall be oriented, whenever
practical and consistent with other requirements of this chapter, to maximize
solar gain in the winter months.
      (11)   Vegetation buffer. A 30-foot vegetation buffer shall be maintained
around open water areas.
   (C)   Residential siting standards. All conservation subdivisions shall
conform to the following standards for residential siting.
      (1)   All residential lots and dwellings shall be grouped into clusters.
Each cluster shall contain no more than ten dwelling units and no less than
four dwelling units, while maintaining at least 20 feet between clusters.
      (2)   Residential clusters shall be located to minimize negative impacts
on the natural, scenic and cultural resources on and adjacent to the site and
to avoid or minimize conflicts between incompatible uses.
      (3)   Residential clusters shall avoid encroaching on rare plant
communities, high quality sites or endangered species identified by the
Department of Natural Resources.
      (4)   Whenever possible, open space shall connect with existing or
potential open space lands on adjoining parcels and local or regional
recreational trails.
      (5)   Residential clusters should be sited to achieve the following
goals, to the extent practicable:
         (a)   Minimize impacts to prime farmland soils and large tracts of
land in agricultural use, and avoid interference with normal agricultural
practices;
         (b)   Minimize disturbance to woodlands, wetlands, grasslands, steep
slopes, bluffs and mature trees;
         (c)   Prevent downstream impacts due to runoff through adequate on-
site storm water management practices;
         (d)   Protect scenic views of open land from adjacent roads. Visual
impact should be minimized through use of landscaping or other features; and
         (e)   Protect archaeological sites and existing historic buildings or
incorporate them through adaptive reuse.
      (6)   The Planning Commission may require landscaping around the cluster
to reduce off-site views of residences.
   (D)   Conservation parcel design standards. A conservation parcel shall be
designated as part of the development. Each development shall contain a
contiguous conservation parcel comprising 45% of the land area to be
subdivided.
      (1)   The uses within the open space shall be accessible to the residents
of the development. These uses may also be available to the general public
providing the proper approvals are received. The required conservation parcel
shall be undivided and restricted in perpetuity from future development.
      (2)   The following areas or structures may be located within the open
space area and shall be counted toward the overall open space percentage
required:
         (a)   Parking areas for access to and use of the open space developed
at a scale limited to the potential users of the open space;
         (b)   Privately-held buildings or structures provided they are
accessory to the use of the open space; and
         (c)   Shared septic systems and shared potable water systems.
      (3)   Road rights-of-way shall not be counted towards the required
minimum open space.
      (4)   Lands within 75 feet of any land designated for construction of a
dwelling unit or accessory structure may be part of the open space, but shall
not count towards the 45% minimum threshold.
      (5)   No more than 50% of the required conservation parcel size may
consist of waterbodies, floodplain or wetlands.
      (6)   Any portion of the conservation parcel designed to provide plant
and animal habitat shall be kept as intact as possible, and enhanced or
restored as appropriate. Trails and roads shall be designed to avoid
fragmenting these habitat areas.
      (7)   Accessible open space in the upland portion of the conservation
parcel may be made available for recreational uses such as trails, play fields
or community gardens, but shall be designed and located so as to avoid impacts
on sensitive natural and cultural resources.
      (8)   Where appropriate, a pathway system for passive recreation
connecting open space areas to neighborhood residents and connecting these
areas to neighborhood streets and to planned or developed trails on adjacent
parcels shall be required and identified in the development plan.
   (E)   Ownership and maintenance of common facilities. The designated common
open space and common facilities may be owned and managed by one or a
combination of the following described in this section. The city may require
any one, or a combination of the following, to ensure the long-term maintenance
of the conservation parcel and any common facilities.
      (1)   Homeowner’s association. A homeowner’s association shall be
established if the common open space is proposed to be owned by a homeowner’s
association. Membership in the association is mandatory for all purchasers of
homes in the development and their successors. The homeowner’s association by-
laws, guaranteeing continuing maintenance of the open space and other common
facilities, and the declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions of
the homeowners association shall be submitted for approval as part of the
information required for the preliminary plat. The homeowner’s association
bylaws or the declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions of the
homeowner’s association shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The legal description of the common land;
         (b)   A description of common facilities;
         (c)   The restrictions placed upon the use and enjoyment of the lands
or facilities;
         (d)   Persons or entities entitled to enforce the restrictions;
         (e)   A mechanism to assess and enforce the common expenses for the
land or facilities including upkeep and maintenance expenses, real estate taxes
and insurance premiums;
         (f)   A mechanism for resolving disputes among the owners or
association members;
         (g)   The conditions and timing of the transfer of ownership and
control of land facilities to the association; and
         (h)   Any other matter the developer deems appropriate.
      (2)   Non-profit conservation organization. If the common open space is
to be held by a non-profit conservation organization, the organization must be
approved by the city. The conveyance to the non-profit conservation
organization must contain appropriate provisions for reversion in the event
that the organization becomes unwilling or unable to uphold the terms of the
conveyance.
      (3)   Public dedication of open space and streets. The city may accept
the dedication of fee title or dedication of a conservation easement to the
common open space. The city may accept the common open space; provided:
         (a)   The common open space is accessible to the residents of the
city;
         (b)   The city agrees to and has access to maintain the common open
space; and
         (c)   Streets or other public ways which have been designated on a
duly adopted official map or element of the city’s Comprehensive Plan shall be
dedicated or reserved by the subdivider to the appropriate governing body. The
street or public way shall be made a part of the plat in the locations and
dimensions indicated in the Comprehensive Plan and as set forth in this
chapter.
      (4)   Individual ownership. An individual may hold fee title to the land
while a non-profit or other qualified organization holds a conservation
easement uses for the common open space.
   (F)   Maintenance plan. Every conservation subdivision must include a plan
that provides evidence of a means to properly manage the conservation parcel in
perpetuity and evidence of the long-term means to properly manage and maintain
all common facilities, including any storm water facilities. The plan shall be
submitted and approved prior to final plat approval. The plan shall do the
following:
      (1)   Designate the ownership of the open space and common facilities in
accordance with the provisions contained herein;
      (2)   Identify a timeframe for adoption and implementation of the
maintenance plan by the designated ownership group(s);
      (3)   Establish necessary regular and periodic operation and maintenance
responsibilities;
      (4)   Estimate staffing needs, insurance requirements, and other
associated costs and define the means for funding the same on an on-going
basis;
      (5)   Include a timeline any interim use allowances and timelines for the
ending or renewal of those uses;
      (6)   Include a land stewardship plan specifically focusing on the long-
term management of common open space lands. The land stewardship plan shall
include a narrative, based on the site analysis required in this subchapter,
describing:
         (a)   Existing conditions including all natural, cultural, historic
and scenic elements in the landscape;
         (b)   The proposed end state for each common open space area; and the
measures proposed for achieving the end state;
         (c)   Proposed restoration measures, including: measures for
correcting increasingly destructive conditions, such as erosion; and measures
for restoring historic features and habitats or ecosystems;
         (d)   The operations needed for maintaining the stability of the
resources, including: mowing schedules; weed control; planting schedules;
clearing and cleanup; at the city’s discretion, the applicant may be required
to place in escrow sufficient funds for the maintenance and operation costs of
common facilities for a maximum of one year. Projected cost estimates for the
long-term maintenance operations shall also be included; and
         (e)   A method for regular review and performance evaluation to ensure
the long-term quality of the conservation parcel.
      (7)   Management plans can be amended by the owner with the approval of
the city.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.101 SHORELINE CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Conservation subdivision and planned unit development (PUD)
requires the assistance of professional planning and usually involves the
approval of multiple agencies or other governmental bodies. Where circumstances
are favorable, conservation subdivision and PUD provide more latitude in land
use than normal development to allow for planning, clustering facilities,
consolidating green spaces and internal recreation amenities.
      (2)   Mixed-use PUD where appropriate, may be allowed provided the use
not normally allowed in the zoning district does not exceed 35% of the building
floor area.
      (3)   Provisions of each zoning district shall govern within that
district, except where specifically addressed in this section.
   (B)   Suitability. The city must consider the following criteria in the
examination of a parcel for suitability as a PUD:
      (1)   Existing recreational use of the surface waters and likely
increases in use associated with planned unit developments;
      (2)   Physical and aesthetic impacts of increased density;
      (3)   Suitability of lands for the planned unit development approach;
      (4)   Level of current development in the area;
      (5)   Amounts and types of ownership of undeveloped lands; and
      (6)   Size of the parcel and amount, if any, of shoreline.
   (C)   Design criteria for all new PUD.
      (1)   Minimum size. All developments must contain at least three
contiguous acres of buildable area with a lot width of 400 feet.
      (2)   Buffer. A minimum of a 50-foot vegetative buffer will be
established and maintained along the boundary of the PUD, except along the
shoreline where the buffer shall be a minimum of 50-feet or the entire shore
impact zone, whichever is greater. There shall be no units or impervious
coverage within this buffer with the exception of access roads or utilities.
The buffer will serve to screen the adjacent parcels and the lake, where
applicable, from the units within the PUD. The screening within the buffer will
contain both low-growing (e.g., brush) and high-growing (e.g., trees)
vegetation. Adjacent parcels and the lake, where applicable, shall be a minimum
of 50% screened, as measured by the Planning and Zoning Administrator, from the
adjacent parcel or the lake during leaf-on conditions. An earthen berm may be
used where, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, the existing vegetation
cannot be enhanced to meet the 50% screening criteria. Use of a berm shall not
preclude the maintaining of a 50-foot buffer or the installation of screening
as part of the berm.
      (3)   Minimum structure setbacks.
Shoreland Class Ordinary High Water Level Structure Setback (feet)
Shoreland Class                         Ordinary High Water Level Structure
                                        Setback (feet)
Agricultural, urban and tributary river 100
Forested and transition river           150
General development                     120
Natural environment                     200
Recreational development                150
Remote river district                   200
Sensitive area district                 200
Special protection                      200
 
      (4)   Common open space. At least 50% of the total project area must be
permanently preserved as common open space. Common open space must protect and
include all areas with physical characteristics unsuitable for development in
their natural state, and areas containing significant historic sites or
unplatted cemeteries, and at least 75% of the common open space must be upland
area. At least 33% of the common open space shall be retained in a contiguous
area.
         (a)   The land area of all dwelling units/sites and accessory
structures, the space between buildings in a cluster, an area of 25 feet around
each structure, all road rights-of-way and all land covered by impervious
surfaces, road surfaces, parking areas or structures, shall not be included in
the computation of common open space.
         (b)   Common open space may include any outdoor recreational
facilities for use by owners of the dwelling units or sites or the public.
         (c)   Common open space may include areas used for storm water
retention or management and areas used for sanitary sewer collection or
disposal. Where common space includes sanitary sewage treatment systems, the
use of the space shall be restricted where necessary to avoid adverse impacts
on the systems.
         (d)   All of the shore impact zones must be included as common open
space.
         (e)   Common open space must not include commercial facilities or
uses, but may contain water-oriented facilities.
         (f)   The appearance and use of common open space areas, including
topography, vegetation and allowable uses, must be preserved by use of
restrictive deed covenants, permanent easements, public dedication and
acceptance, or other equally effective and permanent means acceptable to the
city.
         (g)   Common open space outside the shore impact zone may include
subsurface sewage treatment systems if the use of the space is restricted to
avoid adverse impacts on the systems.
      (5)   Sanitary sewer and water supply standards. Planned unit
developments shall be connected to publicly-owned water supply and sewer
systems, if available. Where publicly-owned water supply and sewer systems are
not available, conservation subdivisions shall either establish dedicated areas
for individual sewage treatment systems or establish centralized water supply
and sewage treatment systems to serve the entire subdivision.
      (6)   Erosion control and storm water management. Erosion control and
storm water management shall be designed by certified personnel in erosion and
sediment control using the best management practices found in the latest
Pollution Control Agency’s Storm Water Best Management Practices Manual, and
effectively implemented to achieve or outperform the pre-development level for
control of storm water runoff.
         (a)   For post construction storm water management, when possible,
existing natural drainageways, wetlands and vegetated soil surfaces must be
used to convey, store, filter and retain storm water runoff before discharge to
public waters. When development density, topographic features and soil and
vegetation conditions are not sufficient to adequately manage and treat storm
water runoff using natural features and vegetation, various types of
constructed facilities such as diversions, settling basins, skimming devices,
dikes, waterways and ponds may be used. Preference must be given to designs
using surface drainage, vegetated filter strips, bioretention areas, rain water
gardens, enhanced swales, off-line retention areas and natural depressions for
infiltration rather than buried pipes and human-made materials and facilities.
         (b)   Development must be planned and conducted in a manner that will
minimize the extent of disturbed areas, runoff velocities, erosion potential
and reduce and delay runoff volumes. Erosion prevention and sediment control
practices must be used to retain sediment on site. Disturbed soil areas must be
stabilized and protected as soon as possible. The maximum time the soil in a
project area can remain exposed when the area is not actively being worked is
three days. Temporary or permanent cover for the exposed areas is required at
that time but should be installed sooner if possible. All deltas and sediment
deposited in surface waters, including drainageways, catch basins and other
drainage systems must be removed within 14 days unless precluded by legal,
regulatory or physical access restraints. The areas where sediment removal
results in exposed soil must be stabilized within seven days after completing
the removal.
         (c)   To the maximum extent possible, land-disturbing activities must
not occur within the shore impact zone.
         (d)   Impervious surface coverage:
 
Class or District              Coverage (percent of Applicable Area
                               applicable area)
General development and        15*                  Riparian lots
recreational development
Natural environment, special
protection, sensitive area and 12                   Riparian lots
all river classes
All classes and districts      35                   Non-riparian lots
All classes and districts      15                   Total project area and 1st
                                                    tier
 
      (7)   Exterior lighting. All exterior lighting shall be directed
downward. Lighting shall not illuminate parcels adjacent to the development,
either directly or indirectly.
      (8)   Shore recreation facilities. Shore recreation facilities,
including, but not limited to, swimming areas, docks and watercraft mooring
areas and launching ramps, must be centralized and located in areas suitable
for them. Evaluation of suitability must include consideration of land slope,
water depth, vegetation, soils, depth to ground water and bedrock or other
relevant factors.
         (a)   The number of spaces provided for continuous beaching, mooring
or docking of watercraft must not exceed one for each allowable dwelling unit
or site in the first tier.
         (b)   The lake access corridor shall be identified and the width shall
be minimized. The access corridor must be located in an upland area, unless no
such area exists, in which case lowland areas shall be traversed with the
utilization of a common boardwalk.
      (9)   Building standards. Units must be clustered in one or more groups
and located on suitable areas of the development. All structures within a PUD
must meet the minimum standards.
         (a)   All multi-family dwellings of four units or larger shall be
designed by an architect.
         (b)   New multi-family buildings shall meet the state code for fire
and sound ratings.
         (c)   Water systems must be winterized.
         (d)   Parking and driving areas must be paved.
         (e)   All buildings shall be earth tone in color and shall be
designed, constructed and positioned to be compatible, in color, character and
mass, with the surrounding land use.
         (f)   All dwellings shall meet the state’s Department of Commerce
Residential Energy Code.
   (D)   Design criteria for existing PUD.
      (1)   All existing PUD shall meet the design criteria for a new PUD,
where possible.
      (2)   Additional development within an existing PUD shall not bring the
PUD further out of compliance with the basic design criteria.
   (E)   Computing PUD buildable area. Buildable area in a PUD is calculated
using the following procedure.
      (1)   The project parcel is divided into tiers by locating one or more
lines approximately parallel to a line that identifies the ordinary high water
level at the following intervals, proceeding landward:
 
Shoreland Tier Dimensions Feet
GD Lakes - first tier     200
GD Lakes - second tiers   267
NE Lakes - all tiers      400
RD Lakes - all tiers      267
 
      (2)   The suitable area within each tier is next calculated. This area is
then subjected to the development density evaluation steps to arrive at an
allowable number of dwelling units/sites. In areas with overlapping tiers due
to close proximity of public waters to each other, topographic divides shall be
used to determine which shoreland standard would apply, and in those areas
where the topographic divide can not be determined, the more restrictive rules
for the area shall be used.
      (3)   Beyond the second tier, all property is classified as “third tier
and beyond”.
   (F)   Planned unit developments.
      (1)   Density. The suitable area within each tier is divided by the
single residential lot size standard for the shoreland class in division (C)
above. This calculation determines the maximum number of dwelling units or
sites authorized for each tier. Structures that straddle tiers shall be rated
as part of the tier closer to the ordinary high water level.
      (2)   Transferability. Allowable densities may be transferred from any
tier to any other tier further from the shoreland water body or watercourse,
but must not be transferred to any other tier closer.
      (3)   Administration and maintenance requirements. Prior to final
approval of any residential planned unit developments, the city will require
adequate provisions developed for preservation and maintenance in perpetuity of
open space and for the continued existence and functioning of the development
as a community.
         (a)   Common open space preservation. Deed restrictions, permanent
conservation easements, public dedication and acceptance or other equally
effective and permanent means must be provided to ensure perpetual preservation
and maintenance of common open space. For areas greater or equal to ten acres,
easements shall be held by the city, conservation organization, land trust or
similar organization authorized to hold interest in real property pursuant to
M.S. § 84C.01-05, as it may be amended from time to time, as approved by the
city. The city may also hold or co-hold an easement. The instruments of the
easement must include all of the following protections.
            1.   Commercial uses shall be prohibited for non-commercial
developments.
            2.   Vegetation and topographic alterations, other than to prevent
personal injury or property damage and for restoration efforts based on an
approved shoreland vegetation buffer plan, shall be prohibited.
            3.   Construction of additional buildings, impervious surfaces or
storage of vehicles and other materials shall be prohibited.
            4.   Beaching of motorized watercraft shall be prohibited.
            5.   Dumping, storage, processing, burning, burying or landfill of
solid or other wastes shall be prohibited.
         (b)   Development organization and functioning. Unless an equally
effective alternative community framework is established, when applicable, all
residential developments shall use an owners association with the following
features.
            1.   Membership shall be mandatory for each dwelling unit or site
purchaser and any successive purchasers.
            2.   Each member must pay a pro rata share of the association’s
expenses, and unpaid assessments can become liens on units or sites.
            3.   Assessments must be adjustable to accommodate changing
conditions.
            4.   The association shall be responsible for insurance, taxes and
maintenance of all commonly-owned property and facilities, and it must enforce
covenants, deed restrictions and easements. The association must have a land
stewardship plan for common open space areas greater or equal to ten acres
specifically focusing on the long-term management of these open space lands.
         (c)   Amendments or revisions to covenants or deed restrictions.
Before establishing or recording any common interest community, the developer
shall submit documents, including all covenants, conditions, restrictions,
easements and operating rules and procedures associated with the development,
for review and approval by the city pursuant to M.S. § 515B.1-106, as it may be
amended from time to time. Under no circumstances shall covenants or deed
restrictions be modified without the city’s determination that the proposed
changes fully comply with the requirements of this section.
      (4)   Conversions. Existing commercial planned unit developments may be
converted to residential developments if all of the following standards are
met.
         (a)   Proposed conversions must be evaluated using the same procedures
and standards presented in this subchapter for planned unit developments
involving all new construction. Inconsistencies between existing features of
the development and these standards shall be identified and corrected. For
conversions to residential lots, all inconsistencies between existing features
of the development and the standards in this section must be identified and
corrected.
         (b)   Deficiencies involving water supply and sewage treatment,
impervious coverage, common open space and shore recreation facilities must be
corrected as part of the conversion or as specified in the conditional use
permit.
         (c)   Shore and bluff impact zone deficiencies must be corrected as
part of the conversion. These improvements must include, where applicable, the
following:
            1.   Removal of extraneous buildings, docks, mooring sites, boat
launching areas and ramps or other facilities located in shore or bluff impact
zones; and
            2.   Remedial measures to correct erosion sites and improve
vegetative cover and screening of buildings and other facilities as viewed from
the water to meet shoreland vegetation buffer standards herein.
         (d)   Dwelling units or dwelling site densities shall meet the
standards in this part for conversion to planned unit developments and the
standards in division (C) above for conversions to residential lots.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.102 MANUFACTURED AND PRE-BUILT HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   General. Manufactured housing development shall be considered a form
of PUD and administered as a conditional use in the zoning district where said
use is allowed. Development of this type creates a heavy demand and reliance on
municipal type facilities including roads, sewer, water and fire protection. In
addition these developments are often the most dense in a community requiring
heavier streets, more public recreation facilities and nearby shopping.
   (B)   Minimum standards.
      (1)   A State Department of Health permit shall be required.
      (2)   Parcel size shall be a minimum of 20 acres.
      (3)   At least two acres shall be set aside for parks and recreation.
      (4)   Minimum individual lot dimensions shall be 60 feet by 140 feet.
      (5)   At least 20% of the land shall be in common ownership not used for
individual lots.
      (6)   The common roadway area, where private, shall be a minimum of 40-
feet wide with a 24-foot wide bituminous surfaced road.
      (7)   There shall be a minimum of two and a maximum of three parking
spaces for each unit.
      (8)   Each unit shall be a minimum of 640 square feet.
      (9)   All units must be skirted, unless placed on an enclosed foundation.
      (10)   Landscaping shall be required as per the direction of the Planning
Commission.
      (11)   When served by public utilities, there shall be individualized
sewer, water and electrical connection for each site.
      (12)   Solid waste storage and removal shall be centralized within the
development and shall be the responsibility of the owner of the development.
      (13)   Each unit must meet the requirements of the state building code,
HUD standards and M.S. §§ 327.23 through 327.35, as they may be amended from
time to time; and shall be no older than five years at time of installation and
have the required state seal attached.
      (14)   Sufficient storm shelter shall be provided to accommodate all
residents of the development.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.103 CAMPGROUNDS/CAMPSITES.
   (A)   General. Campgrounds/RV parks shall be considered a form of planned
unit development and administered thereunder as conditional uses in the zone
where said use is allowed, except no density increases will be considered.
   (B)   Minimum parcel size. No campground or recreational vehicle park shall
be allowed on a parcel of less than 40 acres.
   (C)   Dwelling site requirements. The dwelling sites must conform to the
state’s Department of Health standards and the following.
      (1)   Campsites or recreational vehicle sites shall have a minimum of
3,000 square feet designated for each family unit, with a minimum of 40 feet,
center to center.
      (2)   A strip of land with a minimum width of 40 feet shall be reserved
for a service road adjacent to each of the designated sites.
      (3)   Parking shall be off the road.
      (4)   Recreational facilities as determined by PUD.
      (5)   A water system capable of providing 100 gallons per site, per day,
at 200 psi at the most remote fixture for RV sites, or within 400 feet of each
campsite for non-RV sites.
      (6)   Conforming on-site sewage collection and disposal system sized for
100 gallons per campsite per day.
      (7)   Solid waste facilities consisting of one 30 gallon can for each
four campsites or one dumpster for each 20 sites, constructed to prevent
overturning or cover removal by animals, and screened.
      (8)   Fire pit for each campsite.
      (9)   Campsites for recreational vehicles shall have sewer connection,
water connection and electric connection or recreational vehicles shall be
self-contained and a wastewater disposal station for the first and each 100
such vehicles at least 50 feet from the nearest campsite shall be provided.
      (10)   Drinking water and restroom facilities with showers shall be
provided, all within 400 feet of every site not served with full facilities.
      (11)   Grass or other complete ground cover shall be maintained, except
in parking areas and roads.
      (12)   Evidence shall be provided, prior to final approval, that the
licenses and approval process of the state’s Department of Health has been
adhered to.
      (13)   All sites shall be well drained.
      (14)   Sufficient storm shelter shall be provided to accommodate all
occupants of the campground.
   (D)   Submissions. The submission requirements for a campground shall be the
same as PUDs, except as determined not applicable by the Zoning Administrator.
   (E)   Event camping.
      (1)   Application of provisions. This chapter imposes regulatory
requirements on certain activities which are held on streets, public property
and private property which are defined as “public assemblages”. The
requirements imposed by this chapter do not alter, supersede or nullify any
requirements contained in other statutes, ordinances or regulations which may
also regulate these same activities. These requirements shall be applied in a
content-neutral manner and without discrimination as to race, religion, sex,
national origin, political affiliation or other unlawful discriminatory
classification. This chapter shall not apply to the following events:
         (a)   Events or assemblies occurring inside permanently established,
fully enclosed places of assembly such as a place of worship, public
auditorium, theater, recreation hall, gym or other enclosed structure designed
primarily for housing and assembly of people; provided that, the maximum number
of persons expected to attend or in actual attendance does not exceed the
maximum capacity of the enclosed place of assembly;
         (b)   Events or assemblies in conjunction with school events on school
property, church events on church property if designed for that use or
government sponsored public hearings; or
         (c)   Events or assemblies at golf facilities, resorts or other
licensed recreational sites during normal day-to-day operations when the event
involves spectators in a number equal to or less than can be served by existing
facilities.
      (2)   Application.
         (a)   Any person applying for an event camping license shall complete
a conditional use application approved by the Planning Commission.
         (b)   An application for a conditional use permit shall be in writing,
addressed to the Planning Commission and filed with the Zoning Clerk at least
60 days prior to the date upon which the camping event shall occur. The
Planning Commission shall act upon the application within 30 days after its
submission.
         (c)   Application shall be made by the owner of record of real estate
situated in the city upon which the event camping is to take place or lessee
thereof or duly authorized agent or attorney of the owner or lessee.
         (d)   Such application shall include the following information:
            1.   A statement of the name, age and residence address of the
applicant;
            2.   If the applicant is a corporation, the name of the corporation
and the names and addresses of its directors;
            3.   A statement containing the name, address and record owner(s)
of the property(ies) where the event camping shall occur and the nature and
interest of the applicant therein;
            4.   The proposed dates and hours of such public camping event;
            5.   The expected minimum number of persons intended to use the
property(ies) at one time and collectively;
            6.   The number of automobiles, motorcycles and other vehicles
intended to use the property(ies) at one time and collectively;
            7.   The estimated number of campsites;
            8.   A general explanation of the activity to be carried on and the
admission fee to be charged, if any; and
            9.   Any other information deemed necessary by the Planning
Commission.
      (3)   Notice to abutting owners. The Planning Commission shall send
special notice by mail to all owners of abutting property within 350 feet of
the site of the event and the parking area of the time and place of the public
hearing regarding said special entertainment. The applicant shall bear the cost
of the mail.
      (4)   Payment of due taxes; zoning requirements met. Any person applying
for a conditional use permit shall show that all taxes due to date have been
paid and all zoning requirements met for the premises on which the
entertainment is to be held and for the property to be used as associated
parking facilities.
      (5)   Additional provisions applicable to all permits. Any person holding
a permit under this chapter and every place of event camping shall comply with
the following provisions. Violation of any of these provisions shall be
unlawful.
         (a)   The event shall not last longer than five consecutive days and
four nights.
         (b)   No light on any part of premises licensed hereunder or on any
place of the event shall be permitted to shine beyond the property line of the
premises with an intensity sufficient to disturb the peace, health, safety or
comfort of any adjacent residents or the general public.
         (c)   No soot, cinders, smoke, fumes, gases or disagreeable or unusual
odors shall be permitted to emanate from the premises so as to be detrimental
to any person or to the public or which either annoys, disturbs, injures,
endangers or which may disturb, injure or endanger the health, safety and
welfare of any person or the public.
         (d)   The applicant shall supply adequate and appropriate toilets at
both the site of the event that meet the requirements of the state’s Department
of Health.
         (e)   All trash and rubbish shall be collected and removed from both
public and private property within 24 hours after the conclusion of the event.
         (f)   At no time shall music be played by mechanical device or live
performance which annoys, disturbs, injures, endangers or which might annoy,
disturb or endanger any person or the public in their health, comfort, safety,
repose and peace.
         (g)   No loud, unnecessary or unusual noise shall be permitted to be
made or caused to be made or continued at any time which either annoys,
disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace and safety of
other persons or the public.
         (h)   The applicant shall supply a bond, letter of credit or other
financial security satisfactory to the Council at the time the license is
issued to provide protection for possible damage to other owner’s property or
public property in the vicinity of the entertainment or the parking area. Said
bond shall not be released until ten days after the event.
         (i)   The applicant shall provide insurance satisfactory to the
Council at the time of the license is issued for all police officers assigned
to the event to cover medical care, any future loss of pay due to injury
related to the event and protection against any court suit or liability for
false arrest or other civil or criminal action related to the event.
         (j)   The applicant shall provide sufficient security that is approved
by the city’s Police Department.
         (k)   The applicant shall be responsible for compliance with all
state, federal and local laws relating to health, safety and welfare of the
public at the event.
      (6)   Notice of denial. If the Planning Commission of the city shall deny
an application for a permit under this chapter, it or the City Clerk/Treasurer
shall notify said applicant of the disapproval of said application and shall
include therewith a statement for the reasons for disapproval. The notice of
denial shall be sent by first-class mail.
      (7)   Permits not transferable. No permit issued under the provisions of
this chapter shall be transferred or assigned to any person or used by any
person other than the person to whom it was issued, nor shall such permit be
used on any location other than the location stated in such permit.
      (8)   Revocation of permit. If, after the permit is issued, the Planning
Commission determines that any of the items set forth in this section is not
adhered to and accomplished within a reasonable time prior to the date or dates
of the event or if the Planning Commission determines that any of the
provisions of any section of this chapter has been or is being violated, then
the permit shall become null and void.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.104 EXTRACTIVE USES AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   General. In all districts where permitted, mining shall be permitted
only by IUP. Such permit shall include as a condition: a site plan; a
completion plan; and a haul route plan with provision for road restoration as
provided in the following.
   (B)   Rules. All excavation and extraction shall conform to the following.
      (1)   Distance from property lines. No quarrying operation shall be
carried on or any stock pile placed closer than 50 feet from any property line,
unless a greater distance is specified by the IUP where such is deemed
necessary for the protection of adjacent property, provided that this distance
requirement may be reduced to 25 feet only with written consent of the owners
of the affected adjacent non-residence property.
      (2)   Distance from public right-of-way. In the event that the site of
the mining or quarrying operation is adjacent to the right-of-way of any public
street or road, no part of such operation shall take place closer than 50 feet
to the nearest line of such right-of-way.
      (3)   Fencing. Fencing may be required to be erected and maintained
around the entire site, or excavated portions thereof, and shall be of a type
specified in the IUP.
      (4)   Equipment. All equipment and machinery shall be operated and
maintained in such a manner as to minimize dust, noise and vibration. Power
drives or power producing machinery, not including vehicles, shall not be
housed or operated less than 1,000 feet from a dwelling.
      (5)   Processing. Crushing, washing and refining or other similar
processing may be authorized by IUP as an accessory use; provided, however
that, such accessory processing shall not be in conflict with the use
regulations of the district in which the operation is located. All processing
equipment shall be located at least 1,000 feet from any residence and 200 feet
from the OHW of any lake or stream. Crushing operations shall be limited to 30
days in one calendar year. Hauling may continue until completion of the permit.
      (6)   Temporary bituminous and concrete mixing plants. Temporary hot mix
bituminous or concrete facilities are permitted for specific projects as an
accessory use, with an interim use permit if no residence other than the
property owner’s is located within 1,000 feet of the facility, and all other
interim use criteria are met. This use shall be limited to 30 days in one
calendar year. Hauling may continue until the completion of the permit.
      (7)   Erosion and sediment control. Erosion, sediment control, and
vegetative establishment measures shall conform to the standards and
specifications of the Natural Resources Conservation Service “Field Office
Technical Guide”, that of the Minnesota Department of Transportation, the MPCA,
or the NPDES guidelines.
      (8)   Removal of trees, brush and stumps. All trees, brush and stumps and
any other debris removed for the sole purpose of operation of the pit shall be
disposed of in a manner acceptable to the fire warden and local solid waste
authority. In no case shall vegetation from an area of over ten acres be kept
on the property unless it is burned or buried.
      (9)   Stabilization of slopes. All slopes shall be stabilized, equipment
and structures removed, topsoil properly placed, permanent seeding and mulching
completed, banks rounded and conforming to surrounding topography, and any
other reclamation on the approved plan completed. The Zoning Administrator
shall be notified upon completion and an inspection shall made before the
performance security bond is released.
      (10)   Proof of required permits. Proof of approved state and federal
permits, as required, shall be provided. The contractor shall present
operational permits as required by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency when
applying for a permit.
      (11)   Noise, water and air pollution. The contractor or operator shall
conform to the standards and requirements of the Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency for operation in the pit.
      (12)   Dust control.
         (a)    Dust control measures shall be utilized on non-paved routes in
accordance with the local road authority.
         (b)   Dust control measures shall take place in the pit if dust leaves
the pit and affects adjacent residential properties.
      (13)   Water setbacks. No new gravel pit source or accessory use shall be
established within the shorelands area.
      (14)   Excavation below the water table. Excavation may not be below the
water table without appropriate state permits being on file, and provided there
is no adverse impact on surface water or nearby wells.
      (15)   Traffic safety devices and controlled access to the pit. The
contractor or operator shall provide traffic safety devices in the proximity of
the operation.
         (a)   All entrances and exits shall be constructed so as not to create
a safety hazard.
         (b)   “Truck Hauling” signs shall be placed along all roadways for a
distance of not less than 500 feet. Signs must be covered or removed when pit
not in operation.
         (c)   A pit shall have a barrier access and such barriers shall be
clearly visible to prevent safety hazards to the public. The barrier shall not
be of cable, chain or similar materials. The control barrier shall deny access
to the pit when it is not in operation.
         (d)   The haul road shall be constructed in such a manner that
minimizes the view into the pit from the public road at adjacent residences,
unless improved visibility is required for safety purposes.
      (16)   Hours of operation. 
         (a)   Hours of operation shall be determined through the IUP process
by the Planning Commission.
         (b)   Pit hours may be extended by a member of the City Road Committee
when an emergency exists. An EMERGENCY is a short-term, unplanned and
unexpected event where an immediate need for material exists in order to
address a significant threat to public safety.
      (17)   Extractive use. An extractive use shall be used only for those
operations directly related to the extractive use. Any other use shall require
an interim use permit.
      (18)   Control of activity and clean up. It shall be the responsibility
of the operator/owner to control activity within the pit as well as to clean up
any debris or other materials left on site.
      (19)   Hazardous waste disposal prohibited. No waste classified as
hazardous by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency shall be disposed of at the
site.
      (20)   Water quality. The extractive operation shall not adversely affect
the quality or quantity of surface or subsurface water resources as defined by
MPCA. DNR, USACOE or MDH. Surface water originating outside and passing through
the extraction district shall, at its point of departure from the mining site,
be of equal quality to the water at the point where it enters the mining site.
The mining operator shall perform any water treatment necessary to comply with
this provision.
   (C)   Rehabilitation. To guarantee the restoration, rehabilitation and
reclamation of mined-out areas, every applicant granted an extraction/mining
permit as herein provided shall furnish a performance bond running to the city
in an amount to be determined by the City Engineer acceptable to the Planning
Commission as a guarantee that such applicant, in restoring, reclaiming and
rehabilitating such land and haul road shall, within a reasonable time and to
the satisfaction of the city meet the following minimum requirements.
      (1)   Surface rehabilitation. All excavation shall be made either to a
water producing depth, with a water depth of not less than five feet or the
surface of such area which is not permanently submerged shall be graded or
backfilled to contour and shape the peaks and depressions thereof, so as to
produce a gently drained surface that will minimize erosion due to rainfall and
which will be in substantial conformity to the adjoining land area. Four inches
of black topsoil shall be placed on all areas, except beaches, that will remain
above water level. Haul roads will be restored to their condition prior to the
beginning of the extraction operation,
      (2)   Vegetation. Vegetation shall be restored by appropriate seeds of
grasses or planting of shrubs or trees in all parts of said mining area where
such area is not to be submerged under water as herein above provided.
      (3)   Banks of excavation not backfilled. The banks of all excavation not
backfilled shall be sloped not steeper than three feet horizontal to one foot
vertical and vegetation on said bank shall be permanently established.
   (D)   Application; contents; procedure. An application for such operation
shall provide the following information in addition to that required by the IUP
process:
      (1)   Name of the person or corporation conducting the actual removal
operation;
      (2)   Size of the area from which the removal is to be made;
      (3)   Type of resources or materials to be removed;
      (4)   Proposed method of removal and whether or not blasting or other use
of explosives will be required;
      (5)   Description of equipment to be used;
      (6)   Method of rehabilitation and reclamation of the pit area;
      (7)   Identification of haul roads;
      (8)   An index map, using a U.S. Geological Survey topographic, showing
all features within one mile of the pit, including all residences, wetlands,
lakes, rivers, streams, roads, existing borrow pits, and utility lines; and
      (9)   A written site plan for the extractive use operation, including:
         (a)   Volume of materials to be excavated;
         (b)   Length of time the pit is to be in operation;
         (c)   Amount of truck activity at highest and average levels, dust
control measures, buffer area, depth to groundwater and methods to prevent
groundwater contamination;
         (d)   Hours of operation;
         (e)   Existing vegetation additional buffer type and area (if needed)
to screen pit from adjacent residences;
         (f)   Haul road location, routes trucks will take to and from site,
established property line;
         (g)   Property access control plan, including the types of barriers
established to exclude people and livestock by the active area of excavation;
         (h)   Dust control plan;
         (i)   Noise abatement plan;
         (j)   Drainage within the extractive use site and from the site;
         (k)   Reclamation plan and future plans, including the timing of
reclamation and location and adequacy of topsoils set aside for reclamation;
         (l)   Preservation and mitigation plan for any cultural and/or
archaeological sites.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011; Ord. 906, 1st Series, passed 5-9-2017; Ord.
906, 2nd Series, 12-11-2018)
§ 152.105 HOME OCCUPATION.
   (A)   General. Each home occupation in the city shall be allowed or require
a permit per the use chart requirements.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   All business activities including storage shall be inside
buildings.
      (2)   All activities shall be clearly incidental to the use of the
property for residential purposes.
      (3)   Hours of operation shall be limited by conditional use permit to be
compatible with the residential use.
      (4)   Number of employees shall be limited by conditional use permit.
      (5)   On the premises, retail sales will be allowed only of products
manufactured on those premises unless specifically authorized by conditional
use permit.
      (6)   All activities will be controlled to prevent nuisance problems of
noise, vibration, smoke, dust, fumes or litter.
   (C)   Yard sales/garage sales. Yard sales and garage sales do not require a
home occupation permit or shall be considered a commercial use so long as they
do not exceed seven cumulative days in one calendar year.
   (D)   Private sales. One automobile, recreational vehicle, boat, farm
equipment or similar objects displayed for sale on a property shall not require
a home occupation permit and shall not be considered a commercial use so long
as not more than two items are offered for sale over 30 cumulative days per
calendar year.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011; Ord. 906, 1st Series, passed 5-9-2017) Penalty,
see §
152.999
§ 152.106 AUTO SALVAGE YARDS/JUNK YARDS.
   (A)   Auto salvage yards are to be allowed only as a service to the
community. No more than two will be allowed within the city limits.
   (B)   Such facilities are subject to the following, in addition to CUP
criteria and conditions.
      (1)   On-site sales is allowed along with parts salvage.
      (2)   Fencing/screening sufficient to prevent the facility and all
salvaged materials from being seen from a public roadway or adjacent property
shall be provided.
      (3)   A defined perimeter must be approved and maintained.
      (4)   The facility shall not be located within a drainageway or wetland.
      (5)   Landscaping, in addition to the required screening, may be required
by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.107 LANDFILLS.
   (A)   No landfills are allowed in the city due to the close proximity to the
lakes and streams.
   (B)   The county has the responsibility for this service.
   (C)   Disposal of trees, stumps, rock, brush and other natural products by
burying is allowed on construction sites as determined by the permit.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.108 ADULT USE.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   Findings. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate adult-
oriented businesses to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare
of the citizens of the city and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations
to:
         (a)   Prevent additional criminal activity within the city;
         (b)   Prevent deterioration of neighborhoods and its consequent
adverse effect on real estate values of properties within the neighborhood;
         (c)   To locate adult-oriented businesses away from residential areas,
schools, churches and parks and playgrounds; and
         (d)   Prevent concentration of adult-oriented businesses within
certain areas of the city.
      (2)   The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect
of imposing a limitation of restriction on the content of any communicative
material, including adult-oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent
nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to adult-
oriented materials protect by the First Amendment, or to deny access by
distributors and exhibitors of adult-oriented entertainment to their intended
market.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   Except as specifically provided in this chapter, no structure shall
be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or altered, and no structure or
land shall be used, for any purposed nor in any manner which is not in
conformity with this chapter.
      (2)   No adult-oriented business shall engage in any activity or conduct
or permit any other person to engage in any activity or conduct in or about the
establishment which is prohibited by and ordinance of the city, the laws of the
state or the United States of America. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as authorizing or permitting conduct which is prohibited or regulated
by other statutes or ordinances, including, but not limited to, statutes or
ordinances prohibiting the exhibition, sale or distribution of obscene material
generally, or the exhibition, sale or distribution of specified materials to
minors.
   (C)   Location. During the term of this chapter, no adult-oriented
businesses shall be located less than 500 feet from any residential zoning
district boundary or site used for residential purposes, nor less than 500 feet
from any church site, from any school site, from any day care facility or from
any park which is adjacent to property zoned residential. In addition, no
adult-oriented business may be located within 300 feet of another adult-
oriented business. For purposes of this chapter, this distance shall be a
horizontal measurement from the nearest existing residential district boundary
or site used for residential purposes, church site, school site, day care site,
park site or another adult-oriented business site to the nearest boundary of
the proposed adult-oriented business site.
   (D)   Hours of operation. No adult-oriented business site shall be open to
the public from the hours of 11:00 p.m. to 9:00 a.m.
   (E)   Operation.
      (1)   Off-site viewing. An establishment operating as an adult-oriented
business shall prevent off-site viewing of its merchandise, which if viewed by
a minor, would be in violation of M.S. Ch. 617, as it may be amended from time
to time, or other applicable federal or state statutes or local ordinances.
      (2)   Entrances. All entrances to the business, with the exception of
emergency fire exits which are not useable by patrons to enter the business,
shall be visible from a public right-of-way.
      (3)   Layout. The layout of the display areas shall be designed so that
the management of the establishment and any law enforcement personnel inside
the store can observe all patrons while they have access to any merchandise
offered for sale or viewing including, but not limited to, books, magazines,
photographs, video tapes or any other material.
      (4)   Illumination. Illumination of the premises’ exterior shall be
adequate to observe the location and activities of all person on the exterior
premises.
      (5)   Signs. Signs for adult-oriented businesses shall comply with the
city code sign restrictions addressed in §
152.070 of this chapter and, in addition, signs for adult-oriented businesses
shall not contain representational depiction of an adult nature of graphic
descriptions of the adult theme of the operation.
   (F)   Consumption or sale of alcoholic beverages. Adult-oriented business
shall not be located on the same parcel as, on a parcel adjacent to or within
500 feet of an establishment that serves alcoholic beverages. Sale of alcoholic
beverages on a parcel containing an adult use is prohibited. Consumption of
alcoholic beverages on a parcel containing an adult use is prohibited.
   (G)   Licenses.
      (1)   Licenses required. All establishments, including any business
operating at the time this chapter becomes effective, operating or intending to
operate adult-oriented business, shall apply for and obtain a license from the
city. A person is in violation of the city code if he or she operates an adult-
oriented business without a valid license issued by the city.
      (2)   Applications. An application for a license must be made on a form
provided by the city.
         (a)   The application must be accompanied by a sketch or diagram
showing the configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor
space occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be
professionally prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with
marked dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or
minus six inches.
         (b)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of
this section and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance
with the appropriate state, county and local law and codes by the Health
Official, Fire Marshal and Building Official.
         (c)   Application for license shall contain the address and legal
description of the property to be used; the names, addresses, phone numbers,
dates of birth of the owners, lessee, if any, the operator or manager, and all
employees; the name, address and phone number of two persons, who shall be
residents of the state, and who may be called upon to attest to the
applicant’s, manager’s or operator’s character; whether the applicant, manager
or operator has ever been convicted of a crime or offense other than a traffic
offense and, if so, complete and accurate information detailing the disposition
thereof; the names and addresses of all creditors of the applicant, owner,
lessee or manager regarding credit which has been extended for the purposes of
constructing, equipping, maintaining, operating, furnishing or acquiring the
premises, personal effects, equipment or anything incident to the
establishment, maintenance and operation of the business.
         (d)   If the application is made on behalf of the corporation, joint
business venture, partnership or any legally constituted business association,
it shall submit along with its application, accurate and complete business
records showing the names, addresses and dates of birth of all individuals
having an interest in the business, including partners, officers, owners and
creditors furnishing credit for the establishment, acquisition, maintenance and
furnishings of said business, in the case of a corporation, the names,
addresses and dates of birth off all officers, general managers, members of the
board of directors as well as any creditors who have extended credit for the
acquisition, maintenance, operation or furnishing of the establishment,
including the purchase or acquisition of any items of personal property for use
in said operation.
         (e)   All applicants shall furnish to the city, along with their
applications, complete and accurate documentation establishing the interest of
the applicant and any other person having an interest in the premises upon
which the building is proposed to be located or the furnishings thereof,
personal property thereof or the operation or maintenance thereof.
Documentation shall be in the form of a lease, deed, contract for deed,
mortgage deed, mortgage credit arrangement, loan agreements, security
agreements and any other documents establishing the interest of the applicant
or any other person in the operation, acquisition or maintenance of the
enterprise.
      (3)   Application/applicant disqualification.
         (a)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid.
         (b)   An applicant has been convicted of a crime involving any of the
following offenses:
         (c)   Any sex crimes, as defined by M.S. §§ 609.29 through 609.352
inclusive, as they may be amended from time to time, or as defined by any
ordinance or statute in conformity therewith;
         (d)   Any obscenity crime, as defined by M.S. §§ 617.23 through
617.299 inclusive, as they may be amended from time to time, or as defined by
any ordinance or statute in conformity therewith, for which:
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
            2.   Less than five years have elapsed since date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is a felony offense; or
            3.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-hour
period.
         (e)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed from shall have no
effect on disqualification of the applicant or applicant’s spouse.
      (4)   Requalification. An applicant who has been convicted of an offense
listed herein may qualify for an adult-oriented business license only when the
time period required hereby has elapsed.
      (5)   Posting. The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name
of the person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date and the
address of the adult-oriented business. The license shall be posted in a
conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the adult-oriented business so
that is may be easily read at any time.
      (6)   Council action. The City Council shall act to approve or disapprove
the license application within the timeframes found in state statutes; provided
that, the application contains all of the information required by this chapter.
If the application is deficient, the Council shall act on the application
within the timeframes found in state statutes. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall
notify the applicant of the deficiencies in the application.
      (7)   Appeals. Within 90 days after the decision by the Council, the
applicant may appeal to the District Court by serving a notice upon the Mayor
or City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (H)   Investigation and issuance. The City Council shall direct the Police
Department or County Sheriff to investigate all facts set forth in the
application. An advance fee of $500 shall be submitted with the application to
defray the city’s costs and expenses with the background investigation. After
the background investigation has been completed and all information required by
the application has been submitted to the city, the City Council shall
determine whether to grant or deny the license application.
   (I)   License fees. Fees shall be as set forth in the Fee Schedule Ordinance
on file in the city offices.
   (J)   Inspection.
      (1)   Access. An applicant or licensee shall permit health officials,
representatives of the Police Department, County Sheriff’s Office, Fire
Department, Zoning Administrator and Building Inspection Division to inspect
the premises of an adult-oriented business for the purpose of ensuring
compliance with the law and city code, at any time it is occupied or open for
business.
      (2)   Refusal to permit inspections. A person who operates an adult-
oriented business or his or her agent or employee commits an offense if she or
he refuses to permit a lawful inspection of the premises by health officials,
representatives of the Police Department, County Sheriff’s Department, Fire
Department, Zoning Administrator or Building Inspection Division at any time it
is occupied or open for business. Refusal to permit inspections may result in
the suspension of the license as provided in division (F) above.
      (3)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of
an adult motel which are currently being rented by a customer for uses as a
permanent or temporary habitation.
   (K)   Expiration and renewal.
      (1)   Expiration. Each license shall expire at the end of the calendar
year and may be renewed only by making application as provided in division (G)
(2) above. Application for renewal must be made at least 60 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 60 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the license will be unaffected.
      (2)   Denial of renewal. When the city denies renewal of a license, the
applicant shall not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial.
If, subsequent to denial, the city finds that the basis for denial of the
renewal license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a
license if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
   (L)   Suspension.
      (1)   Causes of suspension. The city may suspend a license for a period
not to exceed 30 days if it determines that a licensee or an employee of a
licensee has:
         (a)   Violated or is not in compliance with any provision of this
chapter;
         (b)   Engaged in the use of alcoholic beverages while on the adult-
oriented business premises;
         (c)   Refused to allow an inspection of the adult-oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter;
         (d)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the adult-oriented
business premises; and
         (e)   Demonstrated inability to operate or mange an adult-oriented
business in a peaceful and law-abiding manner, thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers.
      (2)   Notice. A suspension by the city shall be preceded by written
notice to the licensee and before a hearing. The notice shall give at least ten
days’ notice of the time and place of the hearing and shall state the nature of
the charges against the licensee. The notice may be served upon the licensee
personally, or by leaving the same at the licensee’s business premises with the
person in charge thereof.
   (M)   Revocation.
      (1)   Suspended licenses. The city may revoke a license if a cause of
suspension in division (L) above occurs and the license has been suspended
within the preceding 12 months.
      (2)   Causes of revocation. The city shall revoke a license if it
determines that:
         (a)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted to the city during the application process;
         (b)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use
or sale of controlled substances on the premises;
         (c)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on
the premises;
         (d)   A licensee or an employee knowingly operated the adult-oriented
business during a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
         (e)   A licensee has been convicted of an offense listed herein for
which the time period required herein has not elapsed;
         (f)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons committed an offense occurring in or on the licensed premises of a
crime listed herein, for which a conviction has been obtained, and the person
or person were employees of the adult-oriented business at the time the
offenses were committed;
         (g)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of
sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation or masturbation to occur in or on
the licensed premises; or
         (h)   A licensee has allowed the sale and/or consumption of alcoholic
beverages at the adult-oriented business for which a license has been issued
herein.
      (3)   Appeals. The fact that conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the revocation of the license.
      (4)   Granting a license after revocation. When the city revokes a
license, the revocation shall continue for one year and the licensee shall not
be issued an adult-oriented business license for one year from the date the
revocation became effective. If, subsequent to revocation, the city finds that
the basis for the revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be
granted a license if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date the
revocation became effective. If the license was revoked under division (M)(2)
above, an applicant may not be granted another license until the appropriate
number of years required hereunder have elapsed.
      (5)   Notice. A revocation by the city shall be proceeded by written
notice to the licensee and a public hearing. The notice shall give at least ten
days’ notice of the time and place of the hearing and shall state the nature of
the charges against the licensee. The notice may be served upon the licensee
personally, or by leaving the same at the licensed premised with the person in
charge thereof.
   (N)   Transfer of license. A licensee shall not transfer this license to
another, nor shall a licensee operate an adult-oriented business under the
authority of a license at any place other than the address designated in the
application.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
152.999
Editor’s note:
   Fees for the issuance of a license under this section are as set forth in
the ordinance adopting a schedule of fines and fees on file in the city
offices.
§ 152.109 BED AND BREAKFASTS.
   In districts where permitted or allowed by conditional use, a bed and
breakfast inn shall comply with the following standards.
   (A)   The bed and breakfast inn shall be part of an owner-occupied
residential structure and shall be owner-operated.
   (B)   The use shall comply with applicable federal, state, county and city
rules and regulations.
   (C)   The exterior appearance of the structure shall not be altered from its
single-family character.
   (D)   All guestrooms, and access to guestrooms, shall be located within the
principal residential structure.
   (E)   The total number of units shall be limited to four, not including
owner.
   (F)   The property must meet all density requirements of this chapter as a
single-family dwelling.
   (G)   Guests are limited to a length of stay of no more than 14 consecutive
days.
   (H)   No food preparation or cooking facilities shall be conducted within
any of the guestrooms.
   (I)   All requirements of the zoning district must be followed, variances
will not be granted for the operation of a bed and breakfast and they will not
be allowed on non-conforming lots.
   (J)   Owner shall provide licensure information to the city before operation
shall begin.
   (K)   No property may be leased or rented to a number of individuals greater
than the structure’s bedroom and septic capacity.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.110 RENTAL OF RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
   All property owners seeking to rent or lease their residentially-zoned
property within the city must annually license the property with the city. See
Chapter 150 for regulations regarding rental licensing.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011; Ord. 906, 1st Series, passed 8-11-2015; Ord.
passed - -)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.111 BULK SAMPLING OF MINERAL MANGANESE.
   Where allowed, the bulk sampling of mineral manganese shall conform to the
following requirements.
   (A)   An application shall not be submitted until an environmental
assessment worksheet has been completed and the subsequent environmental review
process has been completed.
   (B)   Official notification requirements shall be expanded to include
notification of all property owners within one mile of the property.
   (C)   Industrial-scaled structures exceeding the normal height limitations
and accessory to the bulk sampling operation may be permitted, without the need
to demonstrate a hardship, as part of the interim use permit request.
   (D)   Noise shall be monitored periodically during the sampling operation. A
schedule for monitoring shall be prepared as part of the permit process.
   (E)   Drivers hauling to and from the site shall be briefed to not use a
jake-brake.
   (F)   The hours of operation shall be specified in the permit.
   (G)   Improvements recommended by the Department of Transportation shall be
implemented as part of the permit.
   (H)   The applicant shall identify financial security and insurance coverage
that has been, or will be, provided to regulating agencies to cover the
potential cleanup of spills and the ultimate restoration of the property.
   (I)   Adequate measures to control dust shall be detailed in the permit.
   (J)   A schedule for monitoring the moisture content of the loads to reduce
dust shall be prepared as part of the permit process.
   (K)   Burning of site debris shall be prohibited.
   (L)   The amount of stockpiling of materials shall be calibrated to ensure
materials do not dry out prior to transport.
   (M)   A schedule for lake monitoring shall be prepared and implemented as
part of the permit.
   (N)   The applicant shall be required to hold on-going public meetings to
report on the operation and ongoing test results at a schedule to be included
in the permit.
   (O)   Improvements accessory to the operation shall be removed, and the site
restored, within a specified timeframe following the completion of the sampling
operation.
   (P)   A schedule for well monitoring shall be prepared and implemented as
part of the permit.
   (Q)   The applicant shall be informed that the lack of negative impacts from
a sampling operation do not automatically denote the lack of negative impacts
from a full-scale mining operation.
   (R)   The route to the processing facility shall be defined as part of the
process.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.112 TEMPORARY FAMILY HEALTH CARE DWELLINGS.
   The city opts out of the requirements of M.S. § 462.3593, as it may be
amended from time to time, which defines and regulates temporary family health
care dwellings.
(Ord. passed 8-29-2016)
§ 152.113 TEMPORARY COMMERCIAL STRUCTURES: SHORT AND LONG TERM.
   Temporary commercial structures are important for business to maintain
quality goods to the public. Some of these uses can cause various levels of
noise and traffic. These standards are intended to protect the public's general
health, safety and welfare from these uses.
   (A)   Structures shall be placed ten feet from property lines.
   (B)   Structures shall be placed 100 feet from any dwelling, except a
dwelling on the same parcel or contiguous parcel under common ownership.
   (C)   Structures shall be placed one foot from the road right-of-way.
   (D)   Regardless of the duration of use, all cold storage warehouses, as
defined by M.S. § 28.01, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time, shall
comply with M.S. Chap. 28, as it may be amended from time to time, in its
entirety, at it may be amended from time to time, and Minn. Rules, Parts
1550.2120 through 1550.2330, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 906, 1st Series, passed 5-9-2017)
§ 152.114 RETREAT CENTERS.
   The following standards and requirements apply to retreat centers:
   (A)   Adequate off-street parking must be provided on site.
   (B)   Applicable public health licenses must be obtained prior to operation
of the retreat center. A copy of the license shall be provided to the Planning
and Zoning Office, if required.
   (C)   A current septic system certificate of compliance must be provided,
maintained and on file at the Planning and Zoning Office.
   (D)   (1)   There may only be one sign on the parcel advertising the
business, which sign shall be attached to the exterior of the home or accessory
structure, shall not be illuminated and shall not measure greater than six
square feet in area.
      (2)   Property on a state or county highway in a 55 mile per hour zone or
higher may have one additional free standing sign, up to 32 square feet in
size.
   (E)   The Planning Commission may impose conditions that will reduce the
impact of the proposed use on neighboring properties and nearby waterbodies.
Said conditions may include but not be limited to a fence or vegetative
screening along a property line or a native buffer along the shoreline.
   (F)   The owners of retreat centers shall ensure that the noise standards of
Minn. Rules, Ch. 7030; or successor rules, are met. The Planning Commission may
impose a quiet hours standard in order to assist in achieving this goal and to
reduce the potential impacts on neighboring properties.
(Ord. 906, 1st Series, passed 5-9-2017)
§ 152.115 OUTDOOR MARKETS.
   The following standards and requirements apply to outdoor markets:
   (A)   Permit required. Operation of an outdoor market, as defined in §
152.003, requires a permit issued by the city. Outdoor market permit
applications shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Permit duration. Outdoor market permits are valid for one calendar
year from January 1 through December 31. All outdoor market permits expire on
December 31 regardless of when they are issued.
   (C)   Hours of operation. Hours of operation, including set up and removal
of all displays and products, shall be developed at the discretion of the
Planning Commission and protect neighbors from light, noise, disturbance and
interruption.
   (D)   Other standards.
      (1)   All structures used for outdoor markets shall be temporary and must
be removed on the same day of operation. Outdoor markets shall only operate up
to two days per week. In the event that an outdoor market will operate on
consecutive days on a property, structures may not remain more than those
consecutive days of the temporary outdoor market.
      (2)   All applications for outdoor markets shall include a plan for the
cleanup of litter. Exterior trash receptacles must be provided for all outdoor
markets. All trash generated from an outdoor market shall be disposed of on a
daily basis.
      (3)   There shall be no use of amplified music or public address systems
associated with outdoor market activities.
      (4)   An outdoor market cannot obstruct a sidewalk, path or road that is
part of a pedestrian, bicycle or vehicle transportation system.
      (5)   Outdoor markets may not sell or offer goods of an indecent or
offensive nature.
      (6)   There shall be no licensed commercial food vendors.
      (7)   Cottage food industry vendors, as defined in §
152.003, are permitted.
(Ord. 01-22, passed 3-8-2022; Ord. 04-22, passed 4-12-2022)
SUBDIVISION STANDARDS
§ 152.130 SKETCH PLAN.
   A sketch plan shall contain the following data.
   (A)   Existing conditions.
      (1)   Approximate exterior boundary drawn to a scale of not less than one
inch equals 100 feet with the scale and northerly direction shown thereon;
      (2)   Indication of floodplains, wetlands, slopes over 12%, bluffs, tree
cover and ordinary high water mark. Use of adjoining properties including
street locations, structure locations and property lines;
      (3)   Significant historical sites;
      (4)   Approximate locations of existing structures;
      (5)   Approximate locations of existing wells and sewage treatment
systems;
      (6)   Location by section, town and range with small scale sketch showing
location within the city; and
      (7)   The existing zoning classification and the zoning classification of
adjacent parcels.
   (B)   Proposed design.
      (1)   Proposed roads and walkways;
      (2)   Proposed lots with building setbacks and bluff impact zones;
      (3)   Proposed green space; and
      (4)   Proposed city sewer and water system connections or sewage
treatment systems and well locations.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.131 SUBDIVISION BY METES AND BOUNDS: PLANNING COMMISSION OR ZONING
ADMINISTRATOR APPROVAL OF DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The standards for a subdivision shall be as follows:
   (A)   Record parcel must have deeded access to public road.
   (B)   Proposed easements must have a minimum width of 33 feet.
   (C)   Proposed subdivision must meet the land use district standards in
which it is located.
   (D)   Proposed subdivisions to include location of delineated wetlands, or a
letter stating there are no wetlands from certified wetland delineator, if no
wetlands exist.
   (E)   Applications must include all the following applicable items:
      (1)   Certificate of survey.
      (2)   County coordinates for public land survey corners if they are not
of public record.
      (3)   Certificate of location of government corner must be prepared and
placed of record for any corner(s) used in determining the boundary of the
subject parcel as specified in M.S. § 381.12, Subd. 3, as it may be amended
from time to time, or executed public land survey comer perpetuation and record
agreement.
      (4)   Location of ordinary high water level, property setbacks,
significant historical sites, existing structures, wells, septic systems and
location of bluffs, if applicable.
      (5)   Consolidation form completed (for non-conforming property to an
adjacent parcel).
      (6)   Once approved, electronic version of subdivision (compatible with
county software).
      (7)   Subsurface sewage treatment site suitability provided for two sites
on each new parcel planned, with supporting documentation from a MPCA-licensed
designer or compliance inspection reports for existing systems.
   (F)   Boundary line adjustment. A boundary line adjustment is the division
of land made for the purpose of adjusting the boundary lines of parcels of land
to an abutting lot or to otherwise exchange property between adjacent lots
which does not create any new lots, tracts, parcels, or sites. A boundary line
adjustment must also not create or result in any lot, tract, parcel, or site
which contains insufficient area and dimensions to meet minimum requirements
for width, lot size, and area for building as required by this section. The
newly acquired land must be combined on the same deed for recording purposes as
the remainder of the owner's property.
      (1)   Application. An owner proposing to undertake a boundary line
adjustment must submit a complete application to the city together with the
applicable fees. The owner must submit the following additional information
with its application in order for the application to be considered complete:
         (a)   A certificate of survey showing the current boundary lines and
the proposed boundary lines after adjustment;
         (b)   The current legal descriptions of the lots; and
         (c)   The resulting legal descriptions of the altered lots.
      (2)   Procedure. Complete applications must be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator or City Clerk. The Zoning Administrator shall review the
application and make a determination and shall have final approval authority.
The Zoning Administrator may bring the request to the planning commission if
deemed necessary. If a boundary line adjustment is approved, the City Clerk
will sign the certificate of survey, indicating its approval. The applicant
shall be required to prepare and record such documents with the County Recorder
as may be needed to complete the boundary line adjustment. Any approved
boundary line adjustment not recorded within one year of approval, shall
require a new application be submitted for review.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011; Ord. 906, 1st Series, passed 5-9-2017; Ord.,
passed - -)
§ 152.132 PRELIMINARY PLAT OR PRELIMINARY CONDOMINIUM PLAT.
   A preliminary plat or preliminary condominium plat shall contain the
following data: (except as waived in advance by the Planning Commission); along
with other reasonable information required by the Commission needed to make a
proper evaluation of the proposal.
   (A)   Existing conditions.
      (1)   Boundary lines with lengths and bearings drawn to exact scale of no
less than one inch equals 100 feet taken from a boundary survey by a registered
land surveyor with the legal description of the property, total acreage, name
of the fee owner, developer and surveyor, North arrow and scale;
      (2)   Topography consisting of two-foot contour intervals, or at the
discretion of the Planning Commission during the sketch plan review, ten-foot
contour intervals taken from the USGS mapping with additional field determined
spot elevations added to define drainageways, 100-year floodplains, wetlands,
slopes and the ordinary high water mark. Near shore aquatic conditions,
including depths, types of bottom, sediments and aquatic vegetation;
      (3)   Tree cover limits, specimen tree locations;
      (4)   Soils as determined by hand borings on a random basis, to determine
depth to ground water at lower elevations and suitability for sewage treatment
systems. At least one boring for each unit unless waived by the Planning
Commission;
      (5)   Location of adjoining streets, wetlands, structures and property
lines within 200-feet of subject parcel, including acreage of any property
owned by the developer not included in the preliminary plat;
      (6)   Significant historical sites;
      (7)   Significant wildlife habitat areas;
      (8)   Endangered, threatened, rare or critical species, both flora and
fauna;
      (9)   Date of boundary survey, topography and proposed plat;
      (10)   Layout of existing streets, walkways, driveways, blocks, lots and
structures drawn to the same scale;
      (11)   Locations of existing wells and sewage treatment systems;
      (12)   Location by section, town and range with small scale sketch
showing location within the city;
      (13)   The existing zoning classification and the zoning classification
of adjacent parcels; and
      (14)   Any features identified by the Planning Commission in a mandatory
sketch plan site visit.
   (B)   Proposed design.
      (1)   Layout of proposed streets, walkways, driveways, blocks, lots,
buildings if known, drawn to same scale as existing data;
      (2)   Dimensions scaled to nearest five feet of all lot lines, street
widths, easement widths and lakeshore lengths;
      (3)   Buildable areas of proposed lots;
      (4)   Structure setback lines from streets, lot lines and ordinary high
water mark and a designation of the buildable area on the parcel;
      (5)   Proposed green space with area shown;
      (6)   Proposed public dedication areas other than streets or walkways
with the area shown;
      (7)   Proposed city sewer or water system connections and extensions
existing and proposed with grades shown;
      (8)   Potential locations and estimated depth to water table for all
proposed on-site sewage disposal systems, two per lot;
      (9)   Information regarding adequacy of domestic water supply;
      (10)   Proposed storm drainage system and erosion control, both during
and after construction activities;
      (11)   Proposed street standards and profiles;
      (12)   Potential principal structure and accessory structure locations
and elevations;
      (13)   Extent of anticipated vegetation and topographic alterations;
      (14)   Proposed covenants;
      (15)   Name of subdivision and proposed street names, which shall not
duplicate or be alike another plat previously recorded; and
      (16)   Stages of development proposed.
   (C)   Evidence of authority. Evidence of authority to subdivide the parcel
consisting of fee ownership or written concurrence of fee owners.
   (D)   Cost/benefit analysis. An analysis of the ongoing cost to the city to
provide services and maintenance to the development shall be prepared using a
form provided by the city. This cost shall be compared on the same form to the
estimated increased valuation of the property and the corresponding tax
revenue. The development shall not be approved if public subsidy is required
for ongoing services and maintenance.
   (E)   Assessments filed. All unpaid assessments shall be paid at the time
the final plat, final condominium plat or metes and bounds lot split is filed.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.133 FINAL PLAT OR FINAL CONDOMINIUM PLAT.
   A final plat or final condominium plat shall contain all elements required
by this chapter and M.S. §§ 505.515A or 505.515B respectively, as they may be
amended from time to time, and the state’s Plat Manual including, but not
limited to, the following:
   (A)   Conformance with approved preliminary plat or agreed upon portion
thereof;
   (B)   Design standards in conformance with this chapter;
   (C)   Preparation by a registered land surveyor. Signatures of Mayor, Clerk/
Treasurer, County Auditor, County Treasurer and all parties with legal interest
in the fee ownership of the land;
   (D)   Dedication to the public of easements, rights-of-way, walkways and
land to become public;
   (E)   Drainage and utility easements over natural drainageways and
significant wetlands;
   (F)   Reservation of private streets in outlots;
   (G)   Covenants shall be filed concurrently with the plat and shall be
required to create an association of homeowners if a privately maintained
cluster sewer or water system is proposed for subdivision.
      (1)   The association shall consist of all benefitted lot owners.
      (2)   The association shall be responsible for all costs of maintenance
and replacement.
      (3)   The costs shall be uniformly divided by lots served.
      (4)   The costs shall be lienable against the lots by the association if
payment is not forthcoming.
      (5)   The status of the facility shall be clearly stated as subject to
perpetual private maintenance.
      (6)   Provisions shall be made for emergency access or emergency
maintenance by the city with subsequent reimbursement by the association.
   (H)   Concurrent documents.
      (1)   Title opinion, less than 60 days old, acceptable to the City
Attorney and showing conformance with those parties represented by signature on
the plat as holding interest in the property being divided.
      (2)   Financial security acceptable to the City Attorney in the amount of
125% of the cost estimated by the City Engineer for the uncompleted required
improvements.
      (3)   Development contract acceptable to the City Attorney, if required.
   (I)   All unpaid assessments shall be paid at the time the final plat, final
condominium plat or metes and bounds lot split is filed.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.134 DESIGN LAYOUT STANDARDS.
   The following design standards shall be considered minimum acceptable
requirements in the review of the proposed subdivision by the Zoning
Administrator, City Attorney, City Engineer, Planning Commission and Council,
except as waived by variance approved by the Board of Adjustment.
   (A)   The land shall be properly zoned and suitable in its natural state for
the intended purpose with minimal alteration required. Land subject to
flooding, land below the ordinary high water mark, wetlands, areas with high
water table, bluffs, lands with slopes exceeding 12% or land containing other
significant constraint(s) upon future intended usage, shall not be considered
in the minimum size of a lot. The suitability analysis for each lot shall also
consider soil and rock formations with severe limitations for development,
severe erosion potential, inadequate water supply or sewage treatment
capabilities, near-shore aquatic conditions unsuitable for water-based
recreation, important fish and wildlife habitat, presence of significant
historic sights, or any other feature of the natural land likely to be harmful
to the health, safety or welfare of future residents of the proposed
subdivision or of the community.
   (B)   All non-conforming structures and uses shall be brought into
conformity during the subdivision process, except as specifically waived by
motion of the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Each lot shall be adjacent to public sewer or shall have a minimum
contiguous lawn area that is free of limiting factors sufficient for the
construction of two standard soil treatment sewage systems.
   (D)   Provisions for water based recreation where near shore aquatic
conditions are unsuitable for direct access.
   (E)   Lot areas and dimensions shall conform to the requirements of this
chapter, without variance.
   (F)   Lot layouts shall be compatible with the existing layout of adjoining
properties and/or shall not constrain the future development of adjacent
properties if those properties were to be developed as per this chapter.
   (G)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to straight road
lines or radial to curved road lines, radial to lake or stream shores and shall
not contain bends or jogs unless topographic conditions necessitate a different
arrangement. Existing structures shall not be construed to be a topographic
condition.
   (H)   Each lot shall have a minimum of 33 feet of frontage on a designated
right-of-way. Commonly-owned property or green space used for access in a
planned unit development shall have a minimum of 33 feet of frontage on a
public right-of-way.
   (I)   Proposed streets shall conform to the adopted road plan of the city,
county and state highway plans and existing boundary conditions.
      (1)   Streets shall be related to the topography so as to produce useable
lots and reasonable gradients not in excess of 10% for collector roads and 12%
for minor roads.
      (2)   Public access shall be given to adjacent properties unless the
topography clearly indicated future connection is not feasible.
      (3)   When parcels abutting arterial or collector roads are subdivided,
no new access points shall be created unless an equal number of access points
are removed, unless access points are created not less than 500 feet apart in
which case there shall be no limit on the number of accessed allowed.
      (4)   Half streets or connections of half streets to partial streets
without providing for the full required right-of-way will not be permitted.
      (5)   Streets will be designed as collectors or local streets in
accordance with the city’s Road Plan.
      (6)   The number of streets that terminate without a through connection
shall be minimized and the street connected to a cul-de-sac (turnaround) shall
not exceed 1,200 feet in length.
      (7)   Access shall be given to all adjacent properties when required by
the Planning Commission. All streets intended to be extended to adjoining
property, shall be provided with a temporary cul-de-sac with the sides on a
temporary easement, which will revert to the adjoining lot owner when released
by the city. Landlocked areas shall not be created.
      (8)   (a)   Right-of-way shall be dedicated to the public:
 
Arterials               100’ or as determined by the county
Collectors              66’
Cul-de-sac (turnaround) 68’ radius
Local Streets           66’
 
         (b)   Additional right-of-way may be required to promote public safety
and convenience if special conditions require such as intersections, sight
lines on corners or excessive cut or fill sections.
      (9)   (a)   Street centerlines shall intersect at not less than 75
degrees.
         (b)   Street jogs shall be no less than 200 feet from centerline to
centerline.
         (c)   Gradients at intersections and for 50 feet approaching on each
side of an intersection shall not exceed 2%. The approach shall contain no
grades greater than 7% for 200 feet on each side of the intersection.
      (10)   Roads, driveways and parking areas shall meet structure setbacks
and shall not be placed within bluff and shore impact zones.
      (11)   Street names shall conform to the pattern of the city, continue an
existing name on the same alignment and generally promote and direction in the
community. Street names shall be coordinated with the Crow Wing County
Surveyor’s Office.
   (J)   Easements shall be provided for public utilities or drainage where
required by the Planning Commission and shall be following widths, minimum:
 
Drainageway                               10 feet
Electrical, telephone or cable television 10 feet
Sanitary sewer                            40 feet
Storm sewer                               20 feet
Water main                                20 feet
 
   (K)   Lots requiring variances to allow their use for the intended purposes
or requiring holding tanks for sewage shall not be allowed.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.135 SURVEY STANDARDS.
   Survey standards shall be those required by M.S. Ch. 505, as it may be
amended from time to time, including the placement of all monuments including
block corners, lot corners, curve points and lake survey line points on lot
lines. All county, state, county and other official benchmarks, monuments or
triangulation points in or adjacent to the proposed subdivision shall be
preserved in position unless relocation is approved by the controlling agency.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.136 STREET IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS.
   All streets within the subdivision shall be constructed by the subdivider or
otherwise provided for by agreement in a development contract between the
subdivider and the City Council with all expenses borne by the subdivider.
Local streets and collector streets shall be constructed according with the
established minimum standards and shall be approved by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.137 SANITARY PROVISION STANDARDS.
   (A)   No land shall be subdivided for building purposes unless two adequate
sites are available on the newly created lot for a conforming on-site sewage
treatment system, or the subdivider constructs a cluster system serving the
lots to be owned and maintained by a property owner’s association or the lot is
provided with sanitary service by a municipal sewer system at the expense of
the subdivider.
   (B)   A municipal sewer system shall be extended to the lot at the
subdivider’s expense by agreement in a development contract between the
subdivider and the City Council if the existing system is adjacent to the
parcel being subdivided or reasonably close in the opinion of the City Engineer
and Planning Commission or if the density of the proposed development
necessitates a municipal sewer connection. The sewer shall also be extended to
the exterior boundary of the subdivision at locations designated by the City
Engineer.
   (C)   On-site systems or cluster on-site systems shall conform to State
Pollution Control Agency Standards, Individual Sewage Treatment Systems
Standard, Minn. Rules Ch. 7080, and provide for two treatment sites for
drainfields.
   (D)   Municipal sewage facilities shall be designed by a registered
engineer, approved by the City Engineer, approved by the state’s Pollution
Control Agency, and installed according to Standard Utilities Specifications,
City Engineer’s Association of the state.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.138 WATER SUPPLY STANDARDS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall be responsible to provide the proposed
subdivision with adequate spacing between building sites, on-site sewage
disposal sites and potential well locations to allow the well installations in
conformance with this chapter requirements or the subdivider shall provide the
lot with a cluster water supply system to be owned and operated by a property
owner’s association or the subdivider shall provide municipal water service to
the lot.
   (B)   A municipal water system shall be extended to the lot at the expense
of the subdivider by agreement in the development contract between the
subdivider and the Council if the existing municipal system is adjacent to the
parcel being subdivided or reasonably close in the opinion of the City Engineer
and Planning Commission or if the density of the proposed development
necessitates a municipal water connection. The water main shall also be
extended to the exterior boundary at locations designated by the City Engineer.
   (C)   On-site wells or cluster water systems shall conform to the state’s
Department of Health Rules and Regulations MHD 210-230 Water Well Construction
Code, and the cluster system shall receive the approval of the City Engineer.
   (D)   Municipal water facilities shall be designed by a registered engineer,
approved by the City Engineer, approved by the state’s Department of Health and
installed according to Standard Utilities Specifications, City Engineer’s
Association of the state.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.139 DRAINAGE/GRADING STANDARDS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall consider the retention of natural storm water/
snowmelt drainage patterns in the design of his or her proposed subdivision.
The subdivider shall be responsible to provide adequate drainage facilitates
for his or her development and upstream properties.
   (B)   All natural drainageways draining properties upstream from the subject
property shall be identified and preserved, and no structures shall be less
than one foot above the water level in the drainageway created by a storm of a
100-year, 24-hour rain event. No filling of areas inundated by the 100-year,
24-hour rain event shall be allowed.
   (C)   Additional runoff for a 100-year, 24-hour rain event from all streets
and building sites at build-out shall be accounted for and maintained within
the development.
   (D)   Natural or human-made storage areas shall be utilized where needed and
shall be designated by drainage and utility easement by the subdivider. All
storage areas shall be vegetated and designed to lower naturally after a storm.
   (E)   All drainage structures or improvements provided shall be sufficient
in size to pass a 100-year, 24-hour storm event through the natural
drainageway.
   (F)   All areas disturbed by grading, street construction or structure
installation shall be covered with a minimum of three inches natural topsoil
and seeded. Drainageways over 2% in gradient shall, at a minimum, be sodded.
   (G)   All parking areas, heavy use areas, storage areas and impervious area
shall be diverted to a basin designed to allow entrapment of silts and
nutrients prior to discharge to a natural drainageway.
   (H)   There shall be no discharge of untreated storm water to a water body.
   (I)   Erosion control measures shall be provided as needed to prevent and/or
contain erosion.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.140 DEDICATION TO THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   In accordance with the provisions of M.S. § 462.358, as it may be
amended from time to time, the subdivider shall dedicate, to the public, lands
for highway rights-of-way, street rights-of-way, utility easements, wetland
easements and similar lands required for perpetual and public improvements.
   (B)   In addition, for every new subdivision of land involving three or more
lots which are to be developed for residential purposes, the Planning
Commission, with the concurrence of the City Council, shall require a payment
to the city, in lieu of a land dedication for conservation purposes or for
public use as parks, recreational facilities, playgrounds, trails, wetlands or
open space, of a sum not to exceed 10%, of the fair market value of the land to
be subdivided. The fair market value of the land to be subdivided shall be the
value as determined by the County Assessor at the time of final plat approval
by the City Council. The amount of the payment shall be set by the Planning
Commission, with the concurrence of the City Council, after taking into
consideration the open space, park, recreational or common areas and facilities
which the applicant proposes to reserve for public use within the subdivision.
Funds received by the city, in lieu of land dedication, shall be placed in a
special fund in accordance with M.S. § 462.358, Subd. 2b, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (C)   All dedications shall be included in the dedicated portion of the
plat, included in the development contract, or received by the city in warranty
deed prior to the approval of the final plat, without further restrictions or
reservations.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.150 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall be appointed by the City Council.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Zoning Administrator:
      (1)   Determine if applications are complete and comply with the terms of
this chapter;
      (2)   Direct or conduct inspections of sewage systems and other uses of
the land to determine compliance with the terms of this chapter;
      (3)   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter, including,
but not limited to, maps, amendments, zoning or use permits, conditional use
permits, variances, appeals and applications, and a separate file for future
conditions or expiration of permits;
      (4)   Review, file and forward applications for appeals, variances,
conditional uses and zoning amendments;
      (5)   To review and approve all metes and bounds property divisions
within the city that results in parcels that are greater than ten acres;
      (6)   Enforce the provisions of this chapter by reviewing complaints and
by pursuing contacts with any violator in accordance with standard procedures
as adopted and modified from time to time;
      (7)   Mail notices relative to public hearings for variances, conditional
uses and zoning changes;
      (8)   Under the direction of the Chairperson of the Planning Commission,
prepare and distribute meeting agendas at least one week prior to the meeting;
      (9)   Attend meetings and provide research and findings to the Board of
Adjustment/Planning Commission;
      (10)   Issue permitted zoning permits upon application for structures on
lots conforming to this chapter when the conditions of this chapter are met; to
issue conditional use permits when directed by the City Council; to issue
notices of a zoning change when directed by the City Council;
      (11)   To mail a copy of the findings to applicants;
      (12)   To file copies of conditional use permits and variances with the
County Recorder;
      (13)   To communicate with the DNR where required by this chapter or
state law;
      (14)   To ensure that the City Council, Planning Commission and Board
Adjustment review land use application or public hearing applications as
prescribed by state statutes;
      (15)   To conduct periodic and final inspections with a member of the
Planning and Zoning Committee, of property subject to conditions of approval
relating to variances, conditional use permits and other land use applications;
      (16)   To issue land use certificates of compliance; and
      (17)   Keep the city up to date with regards to changes in state and
county land use regulations.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.151 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of the members of the Planning
Commission, and shall hold its meetings concurrently with the Planning
Commission meeting on an as-needed basis at the discretion of the Chairperson.
The Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson of the Planning Commission shall have the
same duties on the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Board of Adjustment:
      (1)   To consider appeals from the action of the Zoning Administrator
wherein the Board will take the authority of the Administrator;
      (2)   To hold hearings on variances after proper public notice in the
official newspaper and individual notice by regular mail to any property owners
within a minimum of 350 feet distance of any variance in question. Such notice
shall be given at least ten days before the hearing date;
      (3)   To act on variances within the required time frame with complete
findings to justify the action; and
      (4)   To keep a record of the proceedings, notifications and
justifications for their actions.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.152 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Organization of the Planning Commission.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall consist of five members and one
alternate member appointed by the City Council. The alternate member shall
attend meetings of the Planning Commission and shall be authorized to act as a
voting member of the Planning Commission in the event a regular member is not
in attendance at the meeting, or in the event a regular member elects not to
act on an issue due to a conflict of interest. In the event Planning Commission
members and/or the alternate member are unable to attend meetings of the
Planning Commission, and there are not enough regular or alternate members
present at a meeting to constitute a quorum, the City Council liaison, or other
City Council member(s) designated by the Mayor, may act as members of the
Planning Commission and may act as voting members of the Planning Commission
until such time as Planning Commission members or alternate Planning Commission
members arrive in sufficient numbers to constitute a quorum. In the event the
City Council liaison, or other representative(s) of the City Council serves and
participates in a Planning Commission meeting, that person(s) shall not be
compensated for that meeting.
      (2)   The Commission shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson from
its members for a term of one year.
      (3)   The Commission shall meet the first Tuesday of each month, at a
regular meeting unless the docket is empty in which case the Zoning
Administrator or Chairperson can approve suspension of a meeting. Public
hearings shall be advertised in the official newspaper and posted in the City
Hall at least ten days in advance of the meeting.
      (4)   Each member of the Planning Commission shall be appointed for a
term of four years. Terms shall be staggered.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Planning Commission under this
chapter.
      (1)   To hold hearings after proper public notice in the official
newspaper and individual notice by regular mail of any property owners within a
minimum of 350 feet of any land use in question. Such notices shall be given at
least ten days before the hearing date.
      (2)   To decide within the required time frame the following:
         (a)   Recommendations to the City Council regarding requested zoning
district boundary changes or amendments to this chapter;
         (b)   To review and provide recommendations to the City Council on
proposed plats and to provide recommendations on final plats to the City
Council;
         (c)   To review and approve all metes and bounds property divisions
within the city that results in parcels that are under ten acres;
         (d)   To review and provide recommendations to the City Council on
requests for conditional use permits and interim use permits with complete
findings to justify the decision;
         (e)   To periodically review the zoning map and ordinances and
consider their role in shaping the growth of the community and to recommend
changes to the City Council of these documents to guide growth and current land
use toward the goals of the Comprehensive Plan;
         (f)   To review past actions and direct future actions of the Zoning
Administrator;
         (g)   To recommend on a timely basis that the City Council review the
Comprehensive Plan when appropriate; and
         (h)   To keep a record of the proceedings, notifications and
justifications for their actions.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of each individual member to be present at all
meetings of the Planning Commission and Board of Adjustment. More than three
absences in any one-year period shall be grounds for replacement by the City
Council.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011; Ord. 906, 1st Series, passed 11-10-2015; Ord.
906, 1st Series, passed 2-28-2017; Ord. 02-22, passed 2-8-2022; Ord. 23-01,
passed 2-14-2023)
§ 152.153 PARKS COMMITTEE.
   Duties of the Parks Committee under this chapter are:
   (A)   To make recommendations to the City Council on implementation of the
Comprehensive Plan and the Park Plan;
   (B)   To make recommendations to the City Council on park dedication fees
and/or land dedications within new subdivisions; and
   (C)   To periodically review the Park Plan and ordinances and consider their
role in shaping the growth of the community and to recommend changes to the
City Council of these documents to guide growth and current land use toward the
goals of the Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.154 CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall have the following duties under this chapter:
   (A)   Appoint the Zoning Administrator by a majority vote, or terminate the
Zoning Administrator by a four-fifths vote;
   (B)   Confirm the appointments by the Mayor of members to the Board of
Adjustment/Planning Commission members by a majority vote, or to remove members
by a four-fifths vote; and
   (C)   To decide within the required time frame the following:
      (1)   Recommendations from the Planning Commission for changes in this
chapter and zoning district boundaries;
      (2)   Recommendations from the Planning Commission for acceptance of
proposed plats, conditional use permits, final plats, condominium plans and
other matters directed to them;
      (3)   To hear or initiate appeals from the actions of the Board of
Adjustment and the Planning Commission where their action is normally final;
and
      (4)   To direct enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.155 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Conditional use permits shall run with the property for structures or
other specified uses, as recommended by the Planning Commission after a public
hearing and approved by the City Council. All applications for a conditional
use permit shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator 30 days ahead of the
hearing date, accompanied by a certificate of survey (unless waived by the
Zoning Administrator) showing the details of the proposal and an accurate legal
description, along with the appropriate fee. The fee or contract owner of the
property shall sign the application. The Zoning Administrator shall notify all
property owners within a minimum of 350 feet by regular mail and shall
advertise the hearing once in the legal section of the official newspaper at
least ten days ahead of the public hearing. The Zoning Administrator shall send
the same notice at least ten days in advance of this hearing to the DNR if the
proposed is in shoreland. At the applicant’s option, the applicant may request
a sketch plan review with no action by the Planning Commission and with no fee
by giving 14 days’ notice thereof to the Zoning Administrator, meeting time
permitted.
   (B)   The applicant shall complete the conditional use permit application
approved by the Planning Commission. The application shall contain submittal
requirements, criteria for approval, procedure for consideration and city
contact information. The city shall not accept applications where the applicant
has past due fees or charges due to the city until the account is made current.
   (C)   No conditional use permit application shall be accepted by the Zoning
Administrator from a contractor or property owner having outstanding
violations. Conditional use permits can only be requested by contractors or
property owners with outstanding violations upon resolution of the violation to
the satisfaction of the Planning Commission.
   (D)   In permitting a new conditional use or alteration of an existing
conditional use, the Planning Commission may impose, in addition to the
standards and requirements expressly specified by this chapter, additional
conditions that the Planning Commission considers necessary to protect the best
interest of the surrounding area or the city as a whole. These conditions may
include, but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Increasing the required lot size or yard dimension;
      (2)   Limiting the height, size or location of buildings;
      (3)   Controlling the location and number of vehicle access points;
      (4)   Increasing the street width;
      (5)   Increasing or decreasing the number of required off-street parking
spaces;
      (6)   Limiting the number, size, location or lighting of signs;
      (7)   Requiring berming, fencing screening, landscaping or other
facilities to protect adjacent or nearby property; and
      (8)   Designating sites for open space.
   (E)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall decide the issue with
consideration to the following:
      (1)   The following must be met:
         (a)   The use or development is an appropriate conditional use in the
land use zone;
         (b)   The use or development, with conditions, conforms to the
comprehensive land use plan;
         (c)   The use with condition is compatible with the existing
neighborhood;
         (d)   The use with conditions would not be injurious to the public
health, safety, welfare, decency, order, comfort, convenience, appearance or
prosperity of the city; and
         (e)   For conventional subdivisions, the property contains physical
constraints which make it unable to be developed by the conservation
subdivision method.
      (2)   The following must be considered.
         (a)   The conditional use should not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purpose permitted
on that property, nor substantially diminish or impair values in the immediate
vicinity.
         (b)   The conditional use will not impede the normal and orderly
development and improvement of surrounding vacant property for uses predominant
in the area.
         (c)   The conditional requirements at public cost for public
facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic welfare of
the community.
         (d)   The conditional use will have vehicular approaches to the
property which are so designed as not to create traffic congestion or an
indifference with traffic on surrounding public thoroughfares.
         (e)   Adequate measures have been taken to provide sufficient off-
street parking and loading space to serve the proposed use.
         (f)   Adequate measures have been taken or will be taken to prevent or
control offensive odor, fumes, dust, noise and vibration, so none of these will
constitute a nuisance and to control lights and signs in such a manner, that no
disturbance to neighboring properties will result.
         (g)   The conditional use will not result in the destruction, loss or
damage of a natural, scenic or historical feature of major significance.
         (h)   The conditional use will promote the prevention and control of
pollution of the ground and surface waters including sedimentation and control
of nutrients.
   (F)   When costs to the city involved in processing and reviewing an
application exceeds the original application fees, the applicant shall
reimburse the city for any additional costs. Such expenses may include, but are
not limited to, payroll, mailing costs, consultant fees and other professional
services the city may need to retain in reviewing permits.
   (G)   Violations of the conditions of a conditional use permit shall
automatically suspend the permit. A review of the violation shall be conducted
by the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall make a recommendation
to the City Council on conditions for reinstating the permit or revocation. The
City Council shall make the final decision on reinstating or revoking the
suspended permit.
   (H)   Failure by the owner to act on a conditional use permit within 12
months, or failure to complete the work under a conditional use permit within
two years, unless extended by the Planning Commission, shall void the permit. A
second extension shall require a new public hearing.
   (I)   A CUP application which has been denied shall not be submitted, in an
exact or substantially similar form, for at least 12 months from the date of
denial.
   (J)   Appeals from the action of the city shall be filed with District Court
within 30 days after Council action.
   (K)   The conditional use permit shall be filed with the County Recorder
within 45 days.
   (L)   The conditional use permit shall be filed with the Commissioner within
ten days.
   (M)   The conditional use permit runs with the land and applies to
subsequent purchasers of the land so long as the conditions are being met.
   (N)   Planned unit development procedure and submissions procedure.
      (1)   The applicant may submit a sketch plan to the Planning Commission
for review and discussion at least 14 days prior to the meeting.
      (2)   Based on discussion, the applicant can formally apply by submitting
preliminary documents, prepared with professional help, including as a minimum
the CUP application, and further shall contain the following:
         (a)   Proposed concept of plan operation;
         (b)   Proposed plat or floor plan, if applicable;
         (c)   Proposed recreational amenities;
         (d)   Proposed timing;
         (e)   Proposed final security; and
         (f)   Proposed development contract.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall review the submissions and make a
recommendation to the City Council within a reasonable timeframe with a
complete finding of facts.
      (4)   The City Council shall review the recommendations and render a
decision within a reasonable time.
      (5)   The applicant shall then proceed within the time frame accepted
under the preliminary proposal to provide final documents as required,
including:
         (a)   Financial security;
         (b)   Development contract;
         (c)   Title opinion;
         (d)   Final plat or floor plan;
         (e)   Surveyors plat check;
         (f)   Final covenants and associated documents;
         (g)   Final time schedule;
         (h)   Final site plan which will control development; and
         (i)   MPCA/MnDH approval letter on sewage system and water supply.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.156 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be granted where an unusual hardship on the land
exists. Variances shall only be approved for instances where strict enforcement
would cause undue hardship because of circumstances unique to the individual
property under consideration. Variances shall only be granted when it is
demonstrated that granting of the variance will be in keeping with the spirit
and intent of this chapter.
   (B)   Variances shall not create a use not provided for in a zoning
district.
   (C)   Variances shall run with the property and shall be transferable with
the property. Variances shall not be transferred to other properties.
   (D)   Variances shall run with the property for structures or other
specified uses after a public hearing. All applications for a variance shall be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator 30 days ahead of the hearing date,
accompanied by a certificate of survey (unless waived by the Zoning
Administrator) showing the details of the proposal and an accurate legal
description, along with the appropriate fee. The fee or contract owner of the
property shall sign the application. The Zoning Administrator shall notify all
property owners within a minimum of 350 feet by regular mail and shall
advertise the hearing once in the legal section of the official newspaper at
least ten days ahead of the public hearing. The Zoning Administrator shall send
the same notice at least ten days in advance of this hearing to the DNR if the
proposed is in shoreland. At the applicant’s option, the applicant may request
a sketch plan review with no action by the Board of Adjustment and with no fee
by giving 14 days notice thereof to the Zoning Administrator, meeting time
permitted.
   (E)   The applicant shall complete the variance application approved by the
Board of Adjustment. The application shall contain submittal requirements,
criteria for approval, procedure for consideration and city contact
information. The city shall not accept applications where the applicant has
past due fees or charges due to the city until the account is made current.
   (F)   Variances shall be decided within the required time frame with
consideration for the following:
      (1)   The applicant establishes that there are practical difficulties, as
defined in this chapter, in complying with the official control;
      (2)   The plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to the
property not created by the landowner;
      (3)   The strict interpretation of this chapter would be impractical
because of circumstances relating to lot size, shape, topographic or other
characteristics of the property not created by the land owner;
      (4)   The deviation from this chapter with any attached conditions will
still be in keeping with the spirit and intent of this chapter and the
Comprehensive Plan;
      (5)   The variance will not create a land use not permitted in the zone;
      (6)   The variance will not alter the essential character of the
locality; and
      (7)   The variance is not for economic reasons alone, but reasonable use
of the property does not exist under this chapter.
   (G)   The Board of Adjustment may impose conditions in the granting of
variances. A condition must be directly related to and must bear a rough
proportionality to the impact created by the variance.
   (H)   When costs to the city involved in processing and reviewing an
application exceeds the original application fees, the applicant shall
reimburse the city for any additional costs. Such expenses may include, but are
not limited to, payroll, mailing costs, consultant fees and other professional
services the city may need to retain in reviewing permits.
   (I)   No variance application shall be accepted by the Zoning Administrator
from a contractor or property owner having outstanding violations. Variances
can only be requested by contractors or property owners with outstanding
violations upon resolution of the violation to the satisfaction of the Planning
Commission.
   (J)   Failure by the owner to act within 12 months on a variance unless
extended by the Board of Adjustment shall void the variance. A second extension
shall require a new pubic hearing. This provision shall apply to any variance
outstanding at the time of this chapter adoption.
   (K)   A variance application which has been denied shall not be submitted,
in an exact or substantially similar form, for at least 12 months from the date
of denial.
   (L)   Violations of the conditions of a variance shall void the variance.
   (M)   Appeals from the action of the City Council shall be filed with the
District Court within 30 days after Council action.
   (N)   The variance shall be filed with the County Recorder within 45 days.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.157 INTERIM USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Interim uses shall run with the property for structures or other
specified uses, as recommended by the Planning Commission after a public
hearing and approved by the City Council. All interim uses are temporary and
shall terminate on a specific date, or at the occurrence of a specific event,
that shall be designated at the time the permit is approved.
      (1)   All applications for an interim use permit shall be submitted to
the Zoning Administrator 30 days ahead of the hearing date, accompanied by a
certificate of survey (unless waived by the Zoning Administrator) showing the
details of the proposal and an accurate legal description, along with the
appropriate fee.
      (2)   The fee or contract owner of the property shall sign the
application.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify all property owners within a
minimum of 350 feet by regular mail and shall advertise the hearing once in the
legal section of the official newspaper at least ten days ahead of the public
hearing. The Zoning Administrator shall send the same notice at least 10 days
in advance of this hearing to the DNR if the proposed is in shoreland.
   (B)   Submissions for interim use permit (IUP). The submissions for an IUP
shall be the same as those required for a conditional use permit as detailed in
§
152.155(B) of this chapter.
   (C)   No interim use permit application shall be accepted by the Zoning
Administrator from a contractor or property owner having outstanding
violations. Interim use permits can only be requested by contractors or
property owners with outstanding violations upon resolution of the violation to
the satisfaction of the Planning Commission.
   (D)   In permitting a new interim use or alteration of an existing interim
use, the provisions of §
152.155(D) of this chapter shall apply to allow the Planning Commission to
impose conditions on the approval.
   (E)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall decide the issue with
consideration to the following:
      (1)   The following must be met:
         (a)   The use or development is an appropriate interim use in the land
use zone;
         (b)   The date or event that will terminate the use can be identified
with certainty;
         (c)   Permission of the use will not impose additional costs on the
public if it is necessary for the public to take the property in the future;
and
         (d)   The user agrees to any conditions that the governing body deems
appropriate for permission of the use.
      (2)   The provisions of §
152.155(E)(2) of this chapter, must be considered as they would with a
conditional use permit request.
   (F)   When costs to the city involved in processing and reviewing an
application exceeds the original application fees, the applicant shall
reimburse the city for any additional costs. Such expenses may include, but are
not limited to, payroll, mailing costs, consultant fees and other professional
services the city may need to retain in reviewing permits. The city may require
an escrow account be established at the time the application is made.
   (G)   Violations of the conditions of an interim use permit shall
automatically suspend the permit. A review of the violation shall be conducted
by the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall make a recommendation
to the City Council on conditions for reinstating the permit or revocation. The
City Council shall make the final decision on reinstating or revoking the
suspended permit.
   (H)   Failure by the owner to act on an interim use permit within 12 months
shall void the permit.
   (I)   Appeals from the action of the city shall be filed with District Court
within 30 days after Council action.
   (J)   The interim use permit runs with the land and applies to subsequent
purchasers of the land so long as the conditions are being met.
   (K)   An interim use may be terminated by a change in this chapter.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.158 ZONING PERMITS.
   (A)   Zoning permits are required for all new structures and any change in
structure dimensions, structural components, number of bedrooms, any
construction or repair of a sewage system and any grading and filling in
shoreland not exempted by this chapter. Zoning permits shall only be issued to
the owner of the property.
   (B)   Where a proposed use requires action of the Board of Adjustment,
Planning Commission or Council or posting of financial security, said action
shall occur and the conditional use permit, variance, zoning district change,
final plat plan approval, approval of metes and bound division shall be issued
or security posted before the zoning permit is issued.
   (C)   The city shall not accept applications where the applicant has past
due fees or charges due to the city or the county until the account is made
current.
   (D)   No applications shall be accepted by the Zoning Administrator from a
contractor or property owner having outstanding violations. Permits can only be
issued to contractors or property owners with outstanding violations by
majority vote of the Planning Commission after the violation has been resolved
to the satisfaction of the Planning Commission.
   (E)   The zoning permit shall contain the parcel number of the property, the
signature of the fee or contract owner of the property and any other reasonable
information needed to determine compliance with this chapter.
   (F)   Lot corners shall be visible on the lot. The Zoning Administrator may
require a new survey when stakes are not visible or have been removed through
erosion, construction or other action and require that a new certificate with
existing and recorded dimensions shall be provided.
   (G)   Where a covenant is required by this chapter, evidence that such a
covenant has been recorded shall be provided to the Zoning Administrator.
   (H)   Unless extended by the Zoning Administrator, where a zoning permit has
been issued but no action has occurred within 12 months, the zoning permit
shall be null and void. Exterior work on the structure shall be complete in 24
months from the issuance of the zoning permit. The time limit may be extended
up to six months by the Zoning Administrator for good cause. A second extension
shall be decided by the Planning Commission.
   (I)   Granting of a zoning permit shall occur when all requirements of this
chapter have been met, but shall not be considered a statement of compliance
with regional, state or federal codes, statutes or laws or approval of the
design of the structure or accessories, or description of the property.
Subsequent actions of the Zoning Administrator shall not be considered
acceptance of structural components or workmanship, but rather shall be for the
purpose of determining general compliance with this chapter.
   (J)   If the Zoning Administrator determines that any violation of the
permit or other section of this chapter has occurred, the permit shall become
null and void.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.159 SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Pre-application meeting. At the subdivider’s option, a pre-application
meeting shall be held including the subdivider, City Zoning Administrator, City
Engineer, if requested by the Zoning Administrator, and the City Clerk/
Treasurer. Discussion at this meeting shall be limited to procedure, chapter
requirements and timing.
   (B)   Sketch plan review meeting with Planning Commission. An on-site review
of a sketch plan by the Planning Commission is required prior to submission of
an application for preliminary plat.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit a digital copy of the sketch plan, 14
days prior to the normal Planning Commission meeting, in a format compatible
with county’s coordinate-based parcel data. At that time, the subdivider shall
also request a site visit as part of the formal agenda.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall walk the property with the applicant.
Commission members shall strive to identify any unique features of the property
that should appear on a preliminary plat submittal.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall not take action on the proposal, but
may make suggestions to facilitate the preparation of an approvable preliminary
plat or plan.
   (C)   Financial; security. The city may require that an applicant establish
an escrow account or other financial security for the purpose of reimbursing
the city for direct costs relating to professional services provided during the
review, approval and inspection of the project. The city may charge the
applicant a rate equal to the value of the service to the city. Services
provided by city staff or contract professionals will be billed at an
established rate.
   (D)   Metes and bounds subdivision approval. Where appropriate under the
provisions of this chapter, the subdivider shall submit documents containing
the essential information of a proposed plat or plan and including dimensions
computed to one-hundredth of a foot and bearing computed to equivalent accuracy
to the Planning Commission for approval. The review of the Planning Commission
need not include a public hearing.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit nine copies of his proposal to the
Zoning Administrator 30 days prior to the normal Planning Commission meeting
and pay the corresponding fee.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the proposed subdivision for
compliance with this chapter, including a field review at his or her
discretion.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall decide on approval of the subdivision
within a reasonable time based on the resulting lots complying with this
chapter, the feasibility of the resulting lots for their intended purpose, and
the provision for access to adjacent properties. Conditions may be attached to
an approval requiring appropriate improvements. No more than one subdivision
into two parcels shall be allowed in a three-year period of time. An additional
parcel for right-of-way or commonly-owned driveway access may also be allowed.
      (4)   The resulting land descriptions shall be prepared and signed by a
registered land surveyor and shall comply with all provisions of this chapter.
      (5)   Failure of the subdivider to act after an approval of a metes and
bounds subdivision within one year shall void the approval unless extended by
the Planning Commission. A second extension shall require a new public hearing.
   (E)   Preliminary plat or preliminary condominium plat approval. The
preliminary plat or preliminary condominium plan approval constitutes formal
approval of the concept and design of the subdivision. The Planning Commission
review shall include a public hearing and may include a field review at its
discretion. All reports of city staff, DNR, road authorities and Parks
Commission as well as citizen comments shall be reviewed and included in the
hearing record. Related variance requests, rezoning requests and conditional
use requests shall be heard concurrently with a subdivision request.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit nine copies of his or her proposed plat
or condominium plat to the Zoning Administrator 30 days prior to the normal
Planning Commission meeting, pay the required fees and request a public
hearing.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify all property owner’s within
350 feet, by regular mail and shall advertise the hearing once in the legal
section of the official newspaper at least ten days ahead of the public
hearing, including sufficient legal property description in the advertisement.
The Zoning Administrator shall distribute one copy to each Planning Commission
member, if the proposal is adjacent to a county highway, one copy to the County
Engineer and, if the plat is in shorelands, one copy to the DNR postmarked at
least ten days before the public hearing for review and comment.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the proposed plat or plan as
to content standards, necessary variances, from this chapter, necessary
rezoning or necessary conditional use permits, and advise the subdivider and
the Planning Commission of his or her findings.
      (4)   The subdivider shall make addition application for the necessary
permits at least 30 days prior to the normal Planning Commission or Board of
Adjustment meeting as applicable, if subdivider desires to have a concurrent
public hearing for variance, conditional use or rezoning.
      (5)   The Planning Commission shall hold the public hearing and may
continue the hearing as it deems necessary to allow all factual input it deems
necessary to allow a decision. Lack of submission of comments by outside
agencies shall be construed to mean the agency has no objections.
      (6)   The Planning Commission shall recommend the approval or disapproval
of the preliminary plat or preliminary condominium plat to the council within
120 days of submission, and the findings shall be sent to the subdivider. The
Planning Commission shall consider the following in its decision:
         (a)   Is the property properly zoned?
         (b)   Does the proposal conform to the requirements of the Zoning
Ordinance?
         (c)   Does the proposal conform to the requirements of the Subdivision
Ordinance?
         (d)   Have the concerns of the affected agencies been addressed?
      (7)   The City Council shall review the findings and recommendations of
the Planning Commission at its next regular meeting and make the final
determination.
      (8)   The City Council will hear any appeal within 30 days of the
Planning Commission action and will re-notify anyone noticed for the public
hearing. Said appeals will be filed with the City Clerk/ Treasurer within 15
days of the decision.
      (9)   Failure of the subdivider to act after an approval of preliminary
plat or preliminary condominium plat within one year shall void the approval
unless extended by the Planning Commission. A second extension shall require a
new public hearing.
   (F)   Final plat or final condominium plat approval. Upon approval by the
Planning Commission, the subdivider shall cause the final plat or final
condominium plat, documents and concurrent documents to be prepared and
submitted to the Planning Commission for recommendation to the City Council.
All coincident variance requests, conditional use permit requests and/or
rezoning requests shall either have been decided or be pending approval
simultaneously with the final plat.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit nine paper copies of the final plat or
final condominium plat and concurrent documents to the Zoning Administrator 30
days prior to the Planning Commission meeting.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall distribute the information received
to the City Attorney, the City Engineer and an independent registered land
surveyor, who shall review the submission for conformance with the standards
and comment thereupon to the Planning Commission. The Zoning Administrator
shall compare the final plat to the preliminary plat and comment thereupon. The
City Attorney shall ascertain that all parties with an interest in the parcel
to be divided are indicated as signers of the documents. The City Engineer
shall determine that the improvements required have been completed or have been
included in a development contract and that the required security has been
posted with the City Council. The independent registered land surveyor shall
compare the approved preliminary plat with the final plat, provide a plat check
of the final plat, and verify that the final plat meets the survey standards
required by state statutes.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall review the reports of the City
Attorney, City Engineer, Zoning Administrator and independent registered land
surveyor and make recommendation to the City Council within 45 days of
submission. The Planning Commission shall consider the following:
         (a)   Has the applicant complied with all conditions and requirements
upon which the preliminary approval is expressly conditioned either through
performance or execution of appropriate agreements assuring performance?
         (b)   Does the final plat or final condominium plat agree with the
preliminary plat or preliminary condominium plat?
         (c)   Does the City Attorney agree that all parties with an interest
in the property are shown as signers of the document?
         (d)   Does the City Engineer agree that all improvements required are
satisfactorily completed or are guaranteed by contract with adequate financial
security?
         (e)   Does an independent professional land surveyor agree the final
document meets the statutory requirements?
         (f)   Has financial security been posted in the appropriate amount?
      (4)   The City Council shall review the proposal at its next regular
meeting and decide the approval within 60 days of the submission of the final
plat or final condominium plat to the city.
      (5)   Following approval by the City Council, the subdivider shall submit
to the Zoning Administrator, two double mounted cloth backed prints on card
stock (hard-shells) and two Mylar prints of the final plat or final condominium
plat for signature by the Mayor and Clerk/Treasurer.
      (6)   Upon signature, the subdivider shall file all pertinent documents
with the County Recorder. Failure to file a final plat or plan, within two
years shall void the approval unless extended by the City Council.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.160 FEES.
   (A)   Applicable fees are established in §
152.018 of this chapter. No permit shall be issued, or request brought before
the Board of Adjustment or Planning Commission until the fees are paid. All
applications where work has already started shall require the payment of an
after-the-fact fee as outlined in §
152.018 of this chapter.
   (B)   The city shall not accept applications where the applicant has any
past due fees or charges due to the city until the account is made current.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.161 FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Applications will not be accepted as complete where an applicant has
any utility charges, delinquent taxes, delinquent assessments or other fees
past due with the city or county. The past due account must be paid to bring
the account current before an application will be accepted.
   (B)   When costs associated with processing or reviewing an application
exceed the original application fees, the applicant shall reimburse the city
for any additional costs. Such expenses may include, but are not limited to,
payroll, mailing costs, consultant fees and other professional services the
city may need to hire in reviewing permits. Outstanding fees shall be paid
before issuance of the permit and any construction of the project begins.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.162 REQUIRED DECISION MAKING TIME FRAMES.
   The city shall make land use decisions pursuant to time frames established
in state statutes. It shall be the applicant’s responsibility to submit a
completed application packet, which shall, by definition, include the
application forms approved by the city, site plan with all information required
by this chapter and remit proper fees for the land use application. Once the
Zoning Administrator or appointee has received the completed application
packet, the review time frame shall commence.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
§ 152.163 ALTERNATIVE METHODS OF ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Purpose. The City Council finds that there is a need for
alternative methods of enforcing this chapter. While criminal fines and
penalties have been the most frequent enforcement mechanism, there are certain
negative consequences for both the city and the accused. The delay inherent in
that system does not ensure prompt resolution. Citizens resent being labeled as
criminals for violations of administrative regulations. The higher burden of
proof and the potential of incarceration do not appear appropriate for most
administrative violations. The criminal process does not always regard city
code violations as being important. Accordingly, the City Council finds that
the use of administrative citations and the imposition of civil penalties is a
legitimate and necessary alternative method of enforcement. This method of
enforcement is in addition to any other legal remedy that may be pursued for
zoning violations.
      (2)   General provisions.
         (a)   Administrative offense. A violation of any provision of this
chapter is an administrative offense that may be subject to an administrative
citation and civil penalties. Each day a violation exists constitutes a
separate offense.
         (b)   Civil penalty. An administrative offense may be subject to a
civil penalty.
         (c)   Schedule of fines and fees. The City Council shall adopt a Fee
Schedule Ordinance which is on file in the city offices for offenses initiated
by administrative citation. The City Council is not bound by that schedule when
a matter is appealed to it for administrative review under division (E) below.
The City Council may adopt a schedule of fees to be paid to administrative
Hearing Officers.
   (B)   Administrative citation procedures.
      (1)   Administrative notice.
         (a)   Upon the first violation, the City Planning and Zoning
Administrator (“Administrator”) may issue an administrative notice to the
violator. The Administrator will deliver the administrative notice to the
violator in person or by certified mail at the person’s last known address. The
violator will have 20 calendar days to correct the violation after issuance of
the administrative notice.
         (b)   If the violator is making a good faith attempt to remedy the
violation, the Administrator may grant an extension, the length of which must
be agreed upon in writing between the Administrator and the violator.
         (c)   The city is not required to give such notice and the city, in
its sole discretion, may determine that the violation needs no notice since it
is presumed that the public is clearly on notice that the conduct is in
violation of this code. In such cases, the city shall immediately issue the
administrative citation as set forth in division (B)(2) below.
      (2)   Administrative citation. If the violator fails to correct the
violation within the time period provided in the administrative notice, the
Administrator may issue an administrative citation. The Administrator must
issue the citation to the violator in person or by certified and regular mail.
The citation must state the date and nature of the offense, the name of the
issuing officer, the manner for remedying the violation or appealing the
citation.
      (3)   Resolution. The violator must either remedy the violation or meet
with the Administrator to agree in writing upon a plan of action to remedy the
violation or request a hearing within 20 days after issuance of the citation.
Penalties for failure to correct the violation may be imposed as set forth in
division (F)(4) below. The Administrator may issue a second citation or take
other legal action to achieve compliance with the ordinances.
   (C)   Administrative hearing.
      (1)   Hearing Officers. The City Council will periodically approve a list
of qualified individuals, from which the City Clerk/Treasurer will randomly
select a Hearing Officer to hear and determine a matter for which a hearing is
requested. The Hearing Officer will be a public officer as defined by M.S. §
609.415, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Removal of Hearing Officer. No later than ten days before the date
of the hearing, the violator may make a written request that the assigned
Hearing Officer be removed from the case. The City Clerk/Treasurer will
automatically grant one request for removal. A subsequent request must be
directed to the assigned Hearing Officer, who will decide whether they can
fairly and objectively review the case. If the Hearing Officer determines they
cannot fairly and objectively review the case, the Hearing Officer shall notify
the City Clerk/Treasurer in writing at least one day before the scheduled
hearing date. The City Clerk/Treasurer will then assign another Hearing
Officer.
      (3)   Notice of hearing. Within 30 days of the request for a hearing, the
City Clerk/Treasurer will schedule the hearing and will notify the violator and
involved city staff of the date, time and place for the hearing. Parties are
expected to be available for two hours. Notice of the hearing must be mailed to
the violator and the Hearing Officer at least 20 days in advance of the
scheduled hearing, unless a shorter time is accepted by all parties. The notice
must contain the names of the parties, the identity of the Hearing Officer, the
type and location of the alleged violation and the steps necessary to remedy
the violation.
      (4)   Continuance. A request for a continuance must be made to the City
Clerk/Treasurer at least five days prior to the scheduled hearing date. The
City Clerk/Treasurer may grant a continuance at the request of the violator or
the city staff member only for good cause shown and for no more than ten days
from the originally assigned date.
      (5)   File transmittal.
         (a)   Upon receipt of any request for a hearing, the Administrator’s
office will compile a summary report detailing the facts in support of any
determination that the offense constitutes a violation. The summary report will
include:
            1.   Copy of the citation issued;
            2.   Copy of the administrative notice, which preceded the
citation;
            3.   Copy of any case history in the issuing employee’s department;
            4.   Photographs and/or videotape of property where available; and
            5.   Proof of mailing and/or posting of notice on the property if
the citation was not personally served on the violator.
         (b)   The file must be ready for the Hearing Officer to pick up at
least three business days preceding the scheduled hearing.
      (6)   Presentation of case. At the hearing, the parties will have the
opportunity to present testimony and question any witnesses, but strict rules
of evidence will not apply. The Hearing Officer may tape record the hearing and
receive testimony and exhibits. The Hearing Officer must receive and give
weight to evidence, including hearsay evidence, that possesses probative value
commonly accepted by reasonable and prudent people in the conduct of their
affairs.
      (7)   Decision.
         (a)   The Hearing Officer must issue a written decision containing
findings of fact, conclusions of law and an order. The decision will be mailed
to the parties within ten days after the hearing. The Hearing Officer has the
authority to determine that a violation occurred, to dismiss a citation, to
impose a monetary penalty, and to reduce, stay or waive a monetary penalty
either unconditionally or upon compliance with appropriate conditions to remedy
the violation. When imposing a penalty for a violation, the Hearing Officer may
consider any or all of the following factors:
            1.   Duration of the violation;
            2.   Frequency of reoccurrence of the violation;
            3.   Seriousness of the violation;
            4.   History of the violation;
            5.   Violator’s conduct after issuance of the administrative notice
and citation;
            6.   Violator’s conduct after issuance of the notice of hearing;
            7.   Good faith effort by the violator to comply;
            8.   Impact of the violation upon the community;
            9.   Prior record of city code violations; and
            10.   Any other factors appropriate to a just result.
         (b)   The Hearing Officer may not impose a fine greater than the
established fine, except that the Hearing Officer may impose a fine for each
week that the violation continues if:
            1.   The violation caused or is causing a serious threat of harm to
the public health, safety or welfare; or
            2.   The violator intentionally and unreasonably refused or refuses
to comply with the code requirement.
      (8)   Decision. Except as provided in divisions (D) and (E) below, the
decision of the Hearing Officer is final. The decision of the Hearing Officer
shall be mailed to the violator by certified mail.
      (9)   Failure to appear. The failure to attend the hearing constitutes a
waiver of the violator’s rights to an administrative hearing and an admission
of the violation. A Hearing Officer may waive this result upon good cause
shown. Examples of “good cause” are: death in the immediate family or
documented incapacitating illness of the violator; a court order requiring the
violator to appear for another hearing at the same time; and lack of proper
service of the citation or notice of the hearing. “Good cause” does not
include: forgetfulness; lack of transportation or childcare; and intentional
delay.
   (D)   Administrative review.
      (1)   Appeal. A violator may appeal the Hearing Officer’s decision by
filing a notice of appeal within 20 days after the date the Hearing Officer’s
decision was mailed to the violator.
      (2)   Notice. The appeal under this section will be heard by the City
Council. Notice of the hearing must be delivered to the alleged violator or
property owner and involved city staff, in person or by mail at least ten days
in advance of the hearing. The parties to the hearing will have an opportunity
to present oral or written arguments regarding the Hearing Officer’s decision.
      (3)   Decisions. The City Council must consider the record, the Hearing
Officer’s decision, and any additional arguments before making a determination.
The Council is not bound by the Hearing Officer’s decision, but may adopt all
or part of the officer’s decision. The Council’s decision must be in writing.
      (4)   Suspension or revocation. In addition to imposing a civil penalty,
the Council may suspend or revoke a city issued license, permit or other
approvals associated with the violation.
   (E)   Judicial review.
      (1)   Decision review. An aggrieved party may obtain judicial review of
the decision of the City Council by filing a notice of appeal with the county’s
District Court and serving the same on the city in the manner required by the
state’s Rules of Civil Procedure for service of process upon the city within 20
days of the mailing of the City Council’s decision to the violator.
      (2)   Option to withdraw. These procedures are intended to be voluntary
on the part of those who have been charged with administrative offenses. The
individual may withdraw from participation in this administrative process by
submitting a written request for withdrawal to the City Clerk/Treasurer within
seven days of the issuance of the administrative citation. Upon receiving this
written request, the city may bring criminal or other civil charges according
to this chapter and state law. Likewise, nothing in this section shall prohibit
the city, in its discretion, from initiating criminal charges or any other
remedy in lieu of the administrative procedures herein set forth.
   (F)   Recovery of civil penalties.
      (1)   Non-payment. If a civil penalty is not paid within the time
specified, it will constitute:
         (a)   A lien on the real property upon which the violation occurred if
the property or improvements on the property was the subject of the violation
and the property owner was found responsible for that violation; or
         (b)   A personal obligation of the violator in all other situations.
      (2)   Lien. A lien may be assessed against the property and collected in
the same manner as taxes.
      (3)   Personal obligation. A personal obligation may be collected by
appropriate legal means.
      (4)   Late fees/charges.
         (a)   If after seven days the fine has not been paid or a hearing
requested, the fine will increase by 10% for each seven days thereafter for one
month. After four weeks and four late fee charges have been added to the
original fine, the total bill will be assessed to the property taxes and all
city licenses will be revoked. For continued violations, the city will correct
the violation and assess the charges for doing so onto the property taxes or
criminal charges may be filed.
         (b)   If the same property and property owner are charged with a
subsequent violation within a 12-month period for the same, or substantially
similar offense, the fine will be increased by 25%. After a third infraction in
a 12-month period, the fine will increase by 50% and after a fourth infraction
by 100%.
      (5)   License revocation or suspension. Failure to pay a fine is grounds
for suspending or revoking a license related to the violation.
   (G)   Criminal penalties.
      (1)   The following are misdemeanors, punishable in accordance with state
law:
         (a)   Failure, without good cause, to pay a fine, agree to a plan for
resolution proposed by the city or request a hearing within 30 days after
issuance of an administrative citation;
         (b)   Failure, without good cause, to appear at a hearing that was
scheduled under division (C) above; and
         (c)   Failure to pay a fine imposed by a Hearing Officer within 30
days after it was imposed, or such other time as may be established by the
Hearing Officer.
      (2)   If the final adjudication in the administrative penalty procedure
is a finding of no violation, then the city may not prosecute a criminal
violation in District Court based on the same set of facts. This does not
preclude the city from pursuing a criminal conviction for a violation of the
same provisions based on a different set of facts. A different date of
violation will constitute a different set of facts.
(Ord. 906.12.4, passed 7-14-2009)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Zoning
Administrator, who is hereby designated the enforcing officer.
      (2)   In the event of a violation or a threatened violation of the
ordinance, the City Council may institute appropriate actions or proceedings to
present, restrain, correct or abate such violations or threatened violations.
It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to institute such action.
      (3)   Any taxpayer or taxpayers of the city may institute mandamus
proceedings in the District Court to compel specific performance by the proper
official or officials of any duty required by the ordinance.
      (4)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions hereof or who shall make any false statement in any document
required to be submitted under the provisions hereof, shall be punished by a
fine not to exceed $700 or by imprisonment not to exceed 90 days or both. Each
day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. The owner
of the subject property and any contractor(s) involved shall be considered
jointly liable.
      (5)   The contractor(s) performing any work requiring a permit under this
chapter shall be in violation of the ordinance if working on the site prior to
the issuance of a permit.
      (6)   If the city determines to enforce compliance of this chapter
through a civil remedy, the offending party shall be required to reimburse the
city for the city’s reasonable attorney’s fees and costs, and other
professional costs incurred by the city associated with enforcing the offending
party’s compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
152.103 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished, for each
violation, by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment of not more than
30 days. The continuation of a violation of any provision of §
152.103 of this chapter shall constitute, for each day the violation is
continued, a separate and distinct violation hereunder.
(Ord. 906-2011, passed - -2011)
APPENDIX A: TABLE OF USES
TABLE OF USES
                                                            Rural   Downtown Commercial                        Highway
Use Open  Forest       Forest      Shoreline   Neighborhood Preserv Mixed    Transition/ Shoreline  Recreation Mixed
    Space Preservation Residential Residential Residential  ation   Use      Light       Commercial            Use
                                                                             Industrial
TABLE OF USES
                                                                        Rural   Downtown Commercial                        Highway
Use           Open    Forest       Forest      Shoreline   Neighborhood Preserv Mixed    Transition/ Shoreline  Recreation Mixed
              Space   Preservation Residential Residential Residential  ation   Use      Light       Commercial            Use
                                                                                         Industrial
Abandoned     N       N            N           N           N            N       N        N           N          N          N
Building
Abandoned     N       N            N           N           N            N       N        N           N          N          N
Motor Vehicle
Accessory     N       AC           P           P (7)       P (9)        P (10)  AC       AC          AC         P          P
Structure
Adult Use     N       N            N           N           N            N       C        C           N          N          N
Agricultura l A       A            A           N           A            A       N        N           N          A          A
Use
Airport       N       C            C           N           N            C       N        C           N          C          C
Animals,      N       A            A           A           A            A       A        A           A          A          A
Domestic
Animals, Farm A       A            A           N           A            A       N        N           N          N          A
Animals, Wild N       N            N           N           N            N       N        N           N          N          N
Animal
Boarding      N       C            C           N           N            C       N        C           N          N          C
Facility
Animal
Grooming      N       P            P           C           C            C       P        P           C          N          C
Establishment
Antenna       N       A            A           A           A            A       A        A           A          A          A
Apartment     N       N            N           N           N            N       C        C           N          N          P
Architectur   N       P            P           P           P            P       P        P           P          P
al Projection
Artist’s    N       AC           AC          AC          AC           AC      P        P           P          P          C
Studio
Automobil e
Sales &       N       N            N           N           N            N       N        C           N          N          C
Repair
Auto Salvage  N       N            N           N           N            N       N        N           N          N          N
Yard
Bank/Finan
cial          N       N            N           N           N            N       P        P           N          N          N
Institutions
Banner        N       N            N           AC          AC           AC      AC       AC          AC         AC         AC
Bar/On-Off    N       N            N           N           N            N       P        P           P          N          P
Sale Liquor
Bed &
Breakfast     N       C            C           N           C            C       C        N           P          C          C
Dwelling
Billboards    N       N            N           N           N            N       N        N           N          N          N
Boat Access   N       N            N           C (8)       N            N       N        N           C (8)      N          N
Boat House    N       N            N           N           N            N       N        N           N          N          N
Boarding      N       C            C           N           C            C       C        N           P          C          C
House
Breezeway     N       P            P           P           P            P       P        P           P          P          P
Brewery       N       N            N           N           N            N       C        C           N          N          N
Brewery with  N       N            N           N           N            N       C        C           N          N          C
Taproom
Bulk Sampling
of Mineral
Manganese by  N       N            IU (11)     N           N            IU (11) N        N           N          N          IU (11)
Water
Extraction
Butcher Shop/ N       N            N           N           N            N       P        P           N          N          N
Market
Cabinetry     N       N            N           N           N            N       C        P           N          N          C
Shop
Campground    N       C            C           N           N            C       N        N           C          C          C
Campground,   N       C            C           N           N            C       N        N           C          C          C
Membership
Camping       N       A/P (1)      A/P (1)     A/P (1)     A/P (1)      A/P (1) A/P (1)  N           A (2)      A/P (1)    A/P (1)
Cemetery      N       N            N           N           N            N       E        N           N          N          N
Child Care,   N       C            C           N           C            C       P        P           C          C          C
Center
Child Care,   N       A            A           A           A            A       A        A           A          A          A
Family Home
Church        N       C            C           N           C            C       C        P           C          N          C
Club, Lodge   N       N            N           N           N            N       P        P           C          N          C
Commercia l   N       N            N           N           N            N       N        N           N          N          N
Tower
Communit y    C       N            N           N           N            N       N        N           N          N          N
Park
Condominium
Ownership or
Common        N       C            C           C           C            C       P        C           E          C          C
Interest
Community
Conservation  N       C            C           N           N            C       N        N           N          N          N
Subdivision
Controlled    N       P (12)       P (12)      P (12)      N            P (12)  N        N           N          N          N
Access Lot
Conventional  C       p            C           C           P            C       P        P           C          P          C
Subdivision
Deck          N       P            P           P           P            P       P        P           P          P          P
Dock          A       N            N           A           N            N       N        N           A          A          A
Dwelling,
Guest         N       AC           AC          AC          AC           AC      AC       AC          AC         AC         AC
Quarters
Dwelling,     N       P            P           C           P            P       P        C           C          N          P
Multi-Family
Dwelling,     N       P            P           P           P            P       P        C           P          N          P
Single-Family
              See §
Extractive    152.104
Use           (All
              Zoning
              )
Event Center  N       N            N           N           N            N       C        C           N          N          C
Farm
Machinery     N       N            N           N           N            N       N        C           C          N          C
Sales &
Repair
Feedlot       N       N            N           N           N            N       N        N           N          N          N
Fence         A       A            A           P           P            P       P        P           P          P          P
Fish House    N       AC           AC          AC          AC           AC      AC       N (3)       AC         N (3)      N (3)
Fitness       N       N            N           N           N            N       C        N           N          N          N
Center
Forest Land   N       N            N           N           N            N       N        N           N          N          A
Conversion
Fuel Depot,   N       N            N           N           N            N       N        N           N          N          C
Bulk
Garage,       N       P            P           P           P            P       P        P           P          P          P
Attached
Garage,       AC      AC           AC          AC          AC           AC      AC       AC          AC         AC         AC
Detached
Gas Station   N       N            N           N           N            N       P        P           N          N          C
Gazebo        C       P            P           P           P            P       P        P           P          P          P
Golf Course   N       N            C           N           N            N       N        N           N          P          O
Government    N       N            N           N           C            C       P        P           C          P          C
Building
Grocery Store N       N            N           N           N            N       P        P           N          N          C
Group Care    N       C            C           N           C            C       P        P           C          C          P
Facilities
Home
Occupation,   N       P            P           P           P            P       P        P           P          P          P
Type I
Home
Occupation,   N       A            A           P           P            P       P        P           P          P          P
Type II
Home
Occupation,   N       P            P           N           C            C       P        P           P          N          C
Type III
Home
Occupation,   N       P            P           N           C            C       P        P           P          N          C
Type IV
Hotel         N       N            N           N           N            N       C        C           C          N          C
Industrial    N       N            N           N           N            N       N        P           N          N          C
Use
Intensive
Vegetation    N       N            N           N           N            C       N        N           N          N          N
Clearing
Interval      N       N            N           N           N            N       N        N           N          N          N
Ownership
Junk Yard     N       N            N           N           N            N       N        N           N          N          N
Keeping of    A       A            A           N           P            A       P        N           N          N          A
Chickens
Laundromat    N       N            N           N           N            N       P        P           N          N          C
Light         N       C            C           N           N            N       C        P           N          N          C
Industrial
Light         N       C            C           N           N            N       C        P           N          N          C
Manufacturing
Marina        N       N            N           N           N            N       N        N           C          N          N
Mini Storage
Facility,     N       N            N           N           N            C       C        C           C          N          C
Self Serve
Mobile Home   N       N            N           N           N            N       N        N           N          N          N
Park
Nursery       N       C            C           N           N            C       P        P           N          N          C
Nursing Home  N       C            C           N           C            C       P        P           C          E          C
Off-Street    C       P            P           P           P            P       P        P           P          P          P
Parking
Open Storage  N       N            N           N           N            N       N        N           N          N          N
Outdoor       N       N            N           N           N            N       P        P           N          N          P
Market
Park Model    N       IU           IU          IU          N            IU      IU       N           IU         N          IU
Trailer
Patio         N       P            P           P           P            P       P        P           P          P          P
Planned Unit
Development,  N       N            N           N           N            N       C        C           C          C          C
Commercial
Planned Unit
Development,  N       C            C           C           C            C       C        N           N          N          C
Residential
Porch         N       P            P           P           P            P       P        P           P          P          P
Privy         P       P            P           P           P            P       P        P           P          P          P
Privy,        A       A            A           A           A            A       A        A           A          A          A
Portable
Recreation al N       C            C           N           N            C       C        O           C          C          O
Center
Recreation al N       N            N           N           N            N       P        P           C          N          C
Sales/Service
Recreational  N       A/P (1)      A/P (1)     A/P (1)     A/P (1)      A/P (1) A/P (1)  N           A (2)      A/P (1)    A/P (1)
Vehicle
Rental of     See §
Residential   152.110
Property
Resort        N       C            C           N           N            N       N        N           C          N          N
Restaurant    N       N            N           N           N            N       P        P           C          N          P
Retail Store  N       N            N           N           N            N       P        P           P          N          C
Small Engine  N       N            N           N           N            N       C        P           N          N          C
Repair
Sawmill,      N       N            N           N           N            N       N        C           N          N          N
Permanent
School        N       N            N           N           N            N       N        C           N          N          C
Sewage
Treatment     P       P            P           P           P            P       P        P           P          P          P
System
Signs,        N       A            A           P           P            P       P        P           P          P          P
Directory
Signs,        N       N            N           N           N            N       N        N           N          N          N
Offsite
Signs, Onsite N       P            P           P           P            P       P        P           P          P          P
Signs,        N       A (6)        A (6)       N           N            A (6)   A (6)    A (6)       A (6)      A (6)      A (6)
Portable
Shoreline
Conservati on N       N            N           C           N            N       N        N           N          N          N
Subdivision
Solar         See §
              152.088
Temporary
Commercial    N       N            N           N           N            N       P        P           P          N          P
Structure,
Short Term
Temporary
Commercial    N       N            N           N           N            N       IU       IU          N          N          IU
Structure,
Long Term
Vegetation
Removal,      N       N            N           N           N            N       N        N           N          N          N
Clear Cutting
Vegetation
Removal, Open C       C            C           C           C            C       C        C           C          C          C
Cutting
Vegetation
Removal,      A       A            A           A           A            A       A        A           A          A          A
Select
Cutting
Vegetation
Removal,      C       A            A           A           A            A       A        A           A          A          A
Steep Slopes
Water
Oriented
Accessory     N       N            N           N           N            N       N        N           N          N          N
Structure or
Facility
Watercraft
Sales &       N       N            N           N           N            N       N        P           C          N          C
Repair
Warehousing   N       C            C           N           N            N       N        P           N          N          N
Warehousing,  N       C            C           N           N            N       N        P           N          N          N
Commercial
WECS          See §
              152.087
Yard Sale     N       A            A           A           A            A       A        A           A          A          A
NOTES:
A - allowed w/o a permit, P - permitted, C - conditional use, AC - accessory use, IU - interim use, N - Not Allowed
(1) See §
152.084
(2) In designated campgrounds only
(3) Excluded except where being sold as part of a retail sales establishment
                                                           Less than 10 CY requires a permit
                                                           More than 10 CY, less than 50 CY requires a CUP
                                                           Greater than 50 CY excluded
                                                            
(4) In Shore Impact Zone (cumulative from natural state:   In Lake Setback outside of Shore Impact Zone:
                                                           Less than 50 CY requires a permit
                                                           Outside of Lake Setback
                                                           Less than 100 CY is allowed
                                                           100 CY or more requires a CUP
(5) Excluded except in established mobile home parks
(6) See §
152.070
(7) See §
152.035(C)(8)
(8) Conditional use only where there is no public access. Excluded on all lakes or chains where public access is provided
(9) See §
152.036((C)(5)
(10) See §
152.037(C)(5)
(12) Allowed by Planning Commission in plats when appropriate
 
(Ord. passed 4-12-2016; Ord. 906, 1st Series, passed 5-9-2017; Ord. passed - -;
Ord. 01-22, passed 3-8-2022; Ord. 23-03, passed 11-14-2023)
CHAPTER 153: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
   
153.01   Statutory authority and purpose
   
153.02   General provisions
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   Establishment of Floodplain District
   
153.05   Permitted uses and standards in the Floodplain District
   
153.06   Administration
   
153.07   Nonconformities
   
153.08   Enforcement
   
153.09   Amendments
 
   
153.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Land use and subdivisions, see
Ch. 152
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the State of Minnesota
has, in M.S. Chs. 103F and 462, as they may be amended from time to time,
delegated the responsibility to local government units to adopt regulations
designed to minimize flood losses.
   (B)   Purpose.
      (1)   This chapter regulates development in the flood hazard areas of the
city. These flood hazard areas are subject to periodic inundation, which may
result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of
commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood
protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base. It is the purpose of
this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare by
minimizing these losses and disruptions.
      (2)   National Flood Insurance Program compliance. This chapter is
adopted to comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program codified as 44 C.F.R. Parts 59—78, as amended, so as to
maintain the community's eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program.
      (3)   Preservation. This chapter is also intended to preserve the natural
characteristics and functions of watercourses and floodplains in order to
moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve water quality, reduce soil
erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, provide recreational
opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance community and economic
development.
(Ord. 907, passed 8-8-2017)
§ 153.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which chapter applies. This chapter applies to all lands
within the jurisdiction of the city shown on the flood insurance rate maps
adopted in division (B), below, as being located within the boundaries of the
Floodplain District. The Floodplain District is an overlay district that is
superimposed on all existing zoning districts. The standards imposed in the
overlay districts are in addition to any other requirements in this chapter. In
case of a conflict, the more restrictive standards will apply.
   (B)   Adoption of flood insurance study and maps. The flood insurance study
for Crow Wing County, Minnesota, and incorporated areas, and flood insurance
rate map panels 27035C0075C, 27035C0100C, 27035C0185C, and 27035C0225C; all of
these documents being dated 8-15-2017 and prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
this chapter and the official zoning map. These materials are on file in the
City Clerk/Treasurer's office.
   (C)   Interpretation. The boundaries of the Floodplain District are
determined by scaling distances on the flood insurance rate map.
      (1)   Where a conflict exists between the floodplain limits illustrated
on the official zoning map and actual field conditions, the flood elevations
must be the governing factor. The Zoning Administrator must interpret the
boundary location based on the ground elevations that existed on the site on
the date of the first National Flood Insurance Program map showing the area
within the regulatory floodplain, and other available technical data.
      (2)   Persons contesting the location of the district boundaries will be
given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the Planning and Zoning
Commission and to submit technical evidence.
   (D)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended by this
chapter to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions,
the provisions of this chapter prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent with
this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
   (E)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. This chapter does not imply that
areas outside the Floodplain Districts or land uses permitted within such
districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter does not
create liability on the part of the city or any officer or employee thereof for
any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
   (F)   Annexations. The flood insurance rate map panels adopted by reference
into division (B), above, may include floodplain areas that lie outside of the
corporate boundaries of the city at the time of adoption of this chapter. If
any of these floodplain areas are annexed into the city after the date of
adoption of this chapter, the newly annexed floodplain lands will be subject to
the provisions of this chapter immediately upon the date of annexation.
(Ord. 907, passed 8-8-2017)
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation of the “regional flood,” as defined. The
term BASE FLOOD ELEVATION is used in the flood insurance survey.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to, buildings, manufactured homes, and other
structures, recreational vehicles, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
excavation, drilling operations, or storage of materials or equipment.
   FARM FENCE. A fence as defined by M.S. § 344.02, Subd. l(a)-(d), as it may
be amended from time to time. An open type fence of posts and wire is not
considered to be a structure under this chapter. Fences that have the potential
to obstruct flood flows, such as chain link fences and rigid walls, are not
permitted in the Floodplain District.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain located outside of the floodway.
FLOOD FRINGE is synonymous with the term “floodway fringe” used in the flood
insurance study, Crow Wing County, Minnesota and incorporated areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. An official map of a community, on which the
Federal Insurance Administrator has delineated both the special hazard areas
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been
made available digitally is called a Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
   FLOODPLAIN. The areas adjoining a watercourse which have been or hereafter
may be covered by the regional flood.
   FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include the term “recreational vehicle.”
   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building, wire, fence
(with the exception of farm fences), stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, or
matter in, along, across, or projecting into any channel, watercourse, or
regulatory floodplain which may impede, retard, or change the direction of the
flow of water, either in itself or by catching or collecting debris carried by
such water.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is built on a single chassis, is 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection, is
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck, and
is designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use. For the
purposes of this chapter, the term RECREATIONAL VEHICLE is synonymous with the
term “travel trailer/travel vehicle.”
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 1% chance/
100-year recurrence interval. REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the term “base
flood” used in the flood insurance study.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. An elevation no lower than one foot
above the elevation of the regional flood plus any increases in flood elevation
caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from designation of a
floodway.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground, including, but not limited to, buildings, factories, sheds, detached
garages, cabins, manufactured homes, and other similar items.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure where the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Within any consecutive 365-day period, any reconstruction,
rehabilitation (including normal maintenance and repair), repair after damage,
addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the “start of
construction” of the improvement. This term includes structures that have
incurred “substantial damage,” regardless of the actual repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
         (b)   Any alteration of an “historic structure,” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an
“historic structure.” For the purpose of this chapter, HISTORIC STRUCTURE is as
defined in 44 C.F.R., Part 59.1.
(Ord. 907, passed 8-8-2017)
§ 153.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT.
   (A)   Areas included. The Floodplain District for the city includes those
areas designated as Zone A on the Flood insurance Rate Maps adopted in §
153.02(B). The Floodplain District is an overlay district to all existing land
use districts. The requirements of this chapter apply in addition to other
legally established regulations of the community. Where this chapter imposes
greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter apply.
   (B)   Compliance. No new structure or land shall hereafter be used and no
structure shall be constructed, located, extended, converted, or structurally
altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations. Within the Floodplain District, all uses not listed as
permitted uses in §
153.05 are prohibited.
(Ord. 907, passed 8-8-2017)
§ 153.05 PERMITTED USES AND STANDARDS IN THE FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted within the Floodplain
District without a permit provided that they are allowed in any underlying
zoning district and not prohibited by any other ordinance; and provided that
they do not require structures, fill, obstructions, excavations, drilling
operations, storage of materials or equipment or any other form of development
as defined in §
153.03, above. If the use does require fill, obstruction, excavation, storage
of materials or any other form of development as defined in §
153.03, above, a permit and compliance with division (B), below, is required.
The permit requirement may be waived if there is an application for a public
waters work permit from the Department of Natural Resources.
      (1)   Agricultural uses such as general farming, pasture, grazing,
forestry, sod farming, and wild crop harvesting. Farm fences that do not
obstruct flood flows are permitted.
      (2)   Outdoor plant nurseries and horticulture.
      (3)   Private and public recreational uses such as golf courses, tennis
courts, driving ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching ramps,
swimming areas, parks, wildlife and nature preserves, game farms, shooting
preserves, target ranges, hunting and fishing areas, and single or multiple
purpose recreational trails.
      (4)   Lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play areas.
      (5)   Railroads, roads, bridges, utility transmission lines, pipelines
and other public utilities, provided that the Department of Natural Resources
is notified at least ten (10) days prior to issuance of any permit.
   (B)   Standards for permitted uses.
      (1)   The use must have low flood damage potential.
      (2)   The use must not cause any increase in the stage of the 1% chance
or regional flood or cause an increase in flood damages in the reach or reaches
affected. This provision applies to structures (temporary or permanent), fill
(including fill for roads and levees), deposits, obstructions, storage of
materials or equipment, and all other uses.
      (3)   Floodplain developments must not adversely affect the hydraulic
capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary watercourse
or drainage system.
      (4)   Public utilities, roads, railroad tracks and bridges to be located
within the floodplain must be designed in accordance with divisions (B)(2) and
(3), above, or must obtain a conditional letter of map revision meeting the
requirements of 44 C.F.R. § 603(d).
         (a)   When failure or interruption of these public facilities would
result in danger to the public health or safety or where such facilities are
essential to the orderly functioning of the area, such facilities must be
elevated to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
         (b)   Where failure or interruption of service would not endanger
public health or safety, minor or auxiliary roads, railroads or utilities may
be constructed at a lower elevation.
      (5)   New or replacement water supply systems and sanitary sewage systems
must be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the
systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
(Ord. 907, passed8-8-2017)
§ 153.06 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Zoning Administrator. A Zoning Administrator or other official
designated by the City Council must administer and enforce this chapter.
   (B)   Development approvals. Any construction, enlargement, alteration,
repair, improvement, moving or demolition of any building or structure must
comply with the requirements of this chapter. No mining, dredging, filling,
grading, paving, excavation, obstruction, drilling operation or other form of
development as defined in §
153.03, above, are allowed, other than the uses permitted in §
153.05(A), above, and the activities allowed under §
153.07.
   (C)   Permit required.
      (1)   A permit must be obtained from the Zoning Administrator prior to
conducting the following activities:
         (a)   Expansion, change, enlargement, or alteration of a nonconforming
use as specified in §
153.07, above. Normal maintenance and repair also requires a permit if such
work, separately or in conjunction with other planned work, constitutes a
substantial improvement as defined in §
153.03, above.
         (b)   Any use that requires fill, obstruction, excavation, storage of
materials, or any other form of development as defined in §
153.03, above.
      (2)   Permit applications must be submitted to the Zoning Administrator
on forms provided for that purpose and shall include the following where
applicable: plans drawn to scale, showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the lot; existing or proposed structures, fill, or storage of
materials; and the location of the foregoing in relation to the stream channel.
      (3)   Prior to granting a permit, the Zoning Administrator must verify
that the applicant has obtained all necessary state and federal permits.
   (D)   Variances. An application for a variance to the provisions of this
chapter will be processed and reviewed in accordance with applicable state
statutes and variance criteria in the zoning ordinance.
      (1)   A variance must not allow a use that is not allowed in that
district, permit a lower degree of flood protection than the regulatory flood
protection elevation for the particular area, or permit standards lower than
those required by state law.
      (2)   The following additional variance criteria of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency must be met:
         (a)   Variances must not be issued by a community within any
designated regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base
flood discharge would result.
         (b)   Variances may only be issued by a community upon (i) a showing
of good and sufficient cause, (ii) a determination that failure to grant the
variance would result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and (iii) a
determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased
flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public
expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or
conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
         (c)   Variances may only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   The Board of Adjustment must submit hearing notices for proposed
variances to the Department of Natural Resources sufficiently in advance to
provide at least ten-days' notice of the hearing. The notice may be sent by
electronic mail or U.S. Mail to the respective DNR area hydrologist.
      (5)   A copy of all decisions granting variances must be forwarded to the
Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources within ten days of such
action. The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S. Mail to the
respective DNR area hydrologist.
      (6)   The Zoning Administrator must notify the applicant for a variance
that: (1) The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage and (2) Such construction
below the base or regional flood level increases risks to life and property.
      (7)   The Zoning Administrator must maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and must report such
variances in an annual or biennial report to the Administrator of the National
Flood Insurance Program, when requested by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
   (E)   Notifications for watercourse alterations. Before authorizing any
alteration or relocation of a river or stream, the Zoning Administrator must
notify adjacent communities. If the applicant has applied for a permit to work
in public waters pursuant to M.S. § 103G.245, as it may be amended from time to
time, this will suffice as adequate notice. A copy of the notification must
also be submitted to the Chicago Regional Office of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA).
   (F)   Notification to fema when physical changes increase or decrease base
flood elevations. As soon as is practicable, but not later than six months
after the date such supporting information becomes available, the Zoning
Administrator must notify the Chicago Regional Office of FEMA of the changes by
submitting a copy of the relevant technical or scientific data.
(Ord. 907, passed 8-8-2017)
§ 153.07 NONCONFORMITIES.
   (A)   Continuance of nonconformities. A use, structure, or occupancy of land
which was lawful before the passage or amendment of this chapter but which is
not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject
to the following conditions. Historic structures, as defined in §
153.03 of this chapter, are subject to the provisions of division (A)(1) to (4)
of this section.
      (1)   A nonconforming use, structure, or occupancy must not be expanded,
changed, enlarged, or altered in a way that increases its nonconformity. There
shall be no expansion to the outside dimensions of any portion of a
nonconforming structure located within the Floodplain District.
      (2)   The cost of all structural alterations or additions to any
nonconforming structure over the life of the structure may not exceed 50% of
the market value of the structure unless the conditions of this section are
satisfied. The cost of all structural alterations and additions must include
all costs such as construction materials and a reasonable cost placed on all
manpower or labor. If the cost of all previous and proposed alterations and
additions exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure, then the structure
must meet the standards of division (B),below.
      (3)   If any nonconforming use, or any use of a nonconforming structure,
is discontinued for more than one year, any future use of the premises must
conform to this chapter. The Assessor must notify the Zoning Administrator in
writing of instances of nonconformities that have been discontinued for a
period of more than one year.
      (4)   If any nonconformity is substantially damaged, as defined in §
153.03, above, it may not be reconstructed unless it is located in the flood
fringe portion of the floodplain and it is reconstructed in accordance with the
standards of division (B), below.
      (5)   Any substantial improvement, as defined in §
153.03, above, to a nonconforming structure, then the existing nonconforming
structure must be located in the flood fringe portion of the floodplain and
meet the requirements of division (B), below.
   (B)   Standards for reconstruction of nonconforming structures. The
following standards and procedures apply to nonconforming structures in the
flood fringe portion of the floodplain, as allowed under division (A), above.
      (1)   Elevated on fill. All structures, including manufactured homes,
must be elevated on fill so that the lowest floor including basement floor is
at or above the regulatory flood protection elevation. The finished fill
elevation for structures shall be no lower than one foot below the regulatory
flood protection elevation and the fill shall extend at such elevation at least
15 feet beyond the outside limits of the structure.
      (2)   Proper compaction. Fill must be properly compacted and the slopes
must be properly protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other
acceptable method.
      (3)   Hydraulic capacity. Floodplain developments must not adversely
affect the hydraulic capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any
tributary watercourse or drainage system.
      (4)   Manufactured homes. All manufactured homes must be securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system that resists flotation,
collapse and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not
limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces.
      (5)    On-site sewage treatment and water supply systems. Where public
utilities are not provided: (1) On-site water supply systems must be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems; and (2)
New or replacement on-site sewage treatment systems must be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters and they shall not be subject to
impairment or contamination during times of flooding. Any sewage treatment
system designed in accordance with the State's current statewide standards for
on-site sewage treatment systems shall be determined to be in compliance with
this section.
      (6)   Certification. The applicant is required to submit certification by
a registered professional engineer, registered architect, or registered land
surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were accomplished in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Floodproofing measures must be
certified by a registered professional engineer or registered architect.
      (7)   Record of first floor elevation. The Zoning Administrator must
maintain a record of the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new structures and alterations to existing structures in the floodplain.
The Zoning Administrator must also maintain a record of the elevation to which
structures and alterations or additions to structures are floodproofed.
(Ord. 907, passed 8-8-2017)
§ 153.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   In responding to a suspected ordinance violation, the Zoning Administrator
and City Council may utilize the full array of enforcement actions available to
it including but not limited to prosecution and fines, injunctions, after-the-
fact permits, orders for corrective measures or a request to the National Flood
Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance availability to the guilty
party. The city must act in good faith to enforce these official controls and
to correct ordinance violations to the extent possible so as not to jeopardize
its eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 907, passed 8-8-2017)
§ 153.09 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Floodplain designation; restrictions on removal. The floodplain
designation on the official zoning map shall not be removed from floodplain
areas unless it can be shown that the designation is in error or that the area
has been filled to or above the elevation of the regulatory flood protection
elevation and is contiguous to lands outside the floodplain. Special exceptions
to this rule may be permitted by the Commissioner of the Department of Natural
Resources if the Commissioner determines that, through other measures, lands
are adequately protected for the intended use.
   (B)   Amendments require DNR and FEMA approval. All amendments to this
chapter must be submitted to and approved by the Commissioner of the Department
of Natural Resources (DNR) prior to adoption. The Commissioner of the DNR must
approve the amendment prior to community approval.
   (C)   Map amendments require ordinance amendments. The floodplain district
regulations must be amended to incorporate any revisions by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency to the floodplain maps adopted in §
153.02(B), above.
(Ord. 907, passed 8-8-2017)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation constitutes a misdemeanor. Violation of the provisions of
this chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants
of variances) constitutes a misdemeanor and is punishable as defined by law.
   (B)   Other lawful action. Nothing in this chapter restricts the city from
taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation. If the responsible party does not appropriately respond to the
Zoning Administrator within the specified period of time, each additional day
that lapses will constitute an additional violation of this chapter and will be
prosecuted accordingly.
(Ord. 907, passed 8-8-2017)
CHAPTER 154: CANNABIS BUSINESSES
Section
   
154.01   Administration
   
154.02   Registration of cannabis businesses
   
154.03   Requirements for cannabis businesses
   
154.04   Temporary cannabis events
   
154.05   Use in public places
§ 154.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Findings and purpose. The City Council for the City of Emily makes the
following legislative findings:
      (1)   The purpose of this chapter is to implement the provisions of M.S.
Ch. 342, which authorizes the City of Emily to protect the public health,
safety, welfare of the City of Emily residents by regulating cannabis
businesses within the legal boundaries of City of Emily.
      (2)   The City Council for the City of Emily finds and concludes that the
proposed provisions are appropriate and lawful land use regulations for City of
Emily, that the proposed amendments will promote the community's interest in
reasonable stability in zoning for now and in the future, and that the proposed
provisions are in the public interest and for the public good.
   (B)   Authority and jurisdiction. 
      (1)   The City Council for the City of Emily has the authority to adopt
this chapter pursuant to:
         (a)   M.S. § 342.13(c), as it may be amended from time to time,
regarding the authority of a local unit of government to adopt reasonable
restrictions of the time, place, and manner of the operation of a cannabis
business provided that such restrictions do not prohibit the establishment or
operation of cannabis businesses.
         (b)   M.S. § 342.22, as it may be amended from time to time, regarding
the local registration and enforcement requirements of state-licensed cannabis
retail businesses and lower-potency hemp edible retail businesses.
         (c)   M.S. § 152.0263, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time, regarding the use of cannabis in public places.
         (d)   M.S. § 462.357, as it may be amended from time to time,
regarding the authority of a local authority to adopt zoning ordinances.
      (2)   This chapter shall be applicable to the legal boundaries of the
City of Emily, Minnesota.
   (C)   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
   (D)   Enforcement. The Zoning Administrator is responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter. Any violation of the provisions
of this chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements constitutes a
misdemeanor and is punishable as defined by law. Violations of this chapter can
occur regardless of whether or not a permit is required for a regulated
activity listed in this chapter.
   (E)   Definitions. Unless otherwise noted in this section, words and phrases
contained in M.S. § 342.01, as it may be amended from time to time, and the
rules promulgated pursuant to any of these acts, shall have the same meanings
in this chapter.
      CANNABIS CULTIVATION. A cannabis business licensed to grow cannabis
plants within the approved amount of space from seed or immature plant to
mature plant, harvest cannabis flower from mature plant, package and label
immature plants and seedlings and cannabis flower for sale to other cannabis
businesses, transport cannabis flower to a cannabis manufacturer located on the
same premises, and perform other actions approved by the office.
      CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES. A retail location and the retail location(s)
of mezzobusinesses with a retail operations endorsement, microbusinesses with a
retail operations endorsement, medical combination businesses operating a
retail location, excluding lower-potency hemp edible retailers.
      CANNABIS RETAILER. Any person, partnership, firm, corporation, or
association, foreign or domestic, selling cannabis product to a consumer and
not for the purpose of resale in any form.
      DAYCARE. A location licensed with the Minnesota Department of Human
Services to provide the care of a child in a residence outside the child's own
home for gain or otherwise, on a regular basis, for any part of a 24-hour day.
      LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. As defined under M.S. § 342.01, Subd. 50, as
it may be amended from time to time.
      OFFICE OF CANNABIS MANAGEMENT. Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management,
referred to as “OCM” in this chapter.
      PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A business, accommodation, refreshment,
entertainment, recreation, or transportation facility of any kind, whether
licensed or not, whose goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages or
accommodations are extended, offered, sold, or otherwise made available to the
public.
      PRELIMINARY LICENSE APPROVAL. OCM pre-approval for a cannabis business
license for applicants who qualify under M.S. § 342.17, as it may be amended
from time to time.
      PUBLIC PLACE. A public park or trail, public street or sidewalk; any
enclosed, indoor area used by the general public, including, but not limited
to, restaurants; bars; any other food or liquor establishment; hospitals;
nursing homes; auditoriums; arenas; gyms; meeting rooms; common areas of rental
apartment buildings, and other places of public accommodation.
      RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY. As defined under M.S. § 245.462, Subd.
23, as it may be amended from time to time.
      RETAIL REGISTRATION. An approved registration issued by the City of Emily
to a state-licensed cannabis retail business.
      SCHOOL. A public school as defined under M.S. § 120A.05, as it may be
amended from time to time, or a nonpublic school that must meet the reporting
requirements under M.S. § 120A.24, as it may be amended from time to time.
      STATE LICENSE. An approved license issued by the State of Minnesota's
Office of Cannabis Management to a cannabis retail business.
(Ord. 2024-06, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 154.02 REGISTRATION OF CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Consent to registering of cannabis businesses.
      (1)   No individual or entity may operate a state-licensed cannabis
retail business within the City of Emily without first registering with the
Zoning Clerk.
      (2)   Any state-licensed cannabis retail business that sells to a
customer or patient without valid retail registration shall incur a civil
penalty of $500 for each violation.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, the state shall not issue
a license to any cannabis business to operate in Indian country, as defined in
United States Code, Title 18, Section 1151, of a Minnesota Tribal government
without the consent of the Tribal government.
   (B)   Compliance checks prior to retail registration.
      (1)   Prior to issuance of a cannabis retail business registration, the
Zoning Administrator shall conduct a preliminary compliance check to ensure
compliance with local ordinances.
      (2)   Pursuant to M.S. Ch. 342, as it may be amended from time to time,
within 30 days of receiving a copy of a state license application from OCM, the
City of Emily shall certify on a form provided by OCM whether a proposed
cannabis retail business complies with local zoning ordinances and, if
applicable, whether the proposed business complies with the state fire code and
building code.
   (C)   Registration and application procedure.
      (1)   Fees.
         (a)   A registration fee, as established in the City of Emily's Fee
Schedule Ordinance, shall be charged to applicants depending on the type of
retail business license applied for.
         (b)   An initial retail registration fee shall not exceed $500 or half
the amount of an initial state license fee under M.S. § 342.11, as it may be
amended from time to time, whichever is less. The initial registration fee
shall include the initial retail registration fee and the first annual renewal
fee.
         (c)   Any renewal retail registration fee imposed by City of Emily
shall be charged at the time of the second renewal and each subsequent renewal
thereafter.
         (d)   A renewal retail registration fee shall not exceed $1,000 or
half the amount of a renewal state license fee under M.S. § 342.11, as it may
be amended from time to time, whichever is less.
         (e)   A medical combination business operating an adult-use retail
location may only be charged a single registration fee, not to exceed the
lesser of a single retail registration fee, defined under this section, of the
adult-use retail business.
      (2)   Application submittal. The City of Emily shall issue a retail
registration to a state- licensed cannabis retail business that adheres to the
requirements of M.S. § 342.22, as it may be amended from time to time.
         (a)   An applicant for a retail registration shall fill out an
application form, as provided by the City of Emily. Said form shall include,
but is not limited to:
            1.   Full name of the property owner and applicant;
            2.   Address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant;
            3.   The address and parcel ID for the property which the retail
registration is sought;
            4.   Certification that the applicant complies with the
requirements of local ordinances established pursuant to M.S. § 342.13, as it
may be amended from time to time; and
            5.   Verification of land use compliance by the Zoning
Administrator.
         (b)   The applicant shall include with the form:
            1.   The application fee as required in division (C)(1) of this
section; and
            2.   A copy of a valid state license or written notice of OCM
license pre- approval.
         (c)   Once an application is considered complete, the Zoning
Administrator shall inform the applicant as such. If denied, the applicant may
appeal to the Board of Zoning Adjustment (BZA) of the City of Emily for review
of the Zoning Administrator’s decision.
         (d)   The fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
      (3)   Application approval.
         (a)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application shall not
be approved or renewed if the applicant is unable to meet the requirements of
this chapter.
         (b)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application that meets
the requirements of this section shall be approved.
      (4)   Annual compliance checks.
         (a)   The City of Emily shall complete at minimum one compliance check
per calendar year of every cannabis business to assess if the business meets
and follows the requirements required under M.S. §§ 342.22, Subd. 4(b) and
342.24, as they may be amended from time to time.
         (b)   The City of Emily shall conduct at minimum one unannounced age
verification compliance check at least once per calendar year.
         (c)   Age verification compliance checks shall involve persons at
least 17 years of age but under the age of 21 who, with the prior written
consent of a parent or guardian if the person is under the age of 18, attempt
to purchase adult-use cannabis flower, adult-use cannabis products, lower-
potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products under the direct
supervision of a law enforcement officer or an employee of the local unit of
government.
         (d)   Any failures under this division (C)(4) must be reported to the
Office of Cannabis Management.
      (5)   Location change. A state-licensed cannabis retail business shall be
required to submit a new application for registration under division (C)(2) of
this section if it seeks to move to a new location still within the legal
boundaries of City of Emily.
   (D)   Renewal of registration.
      (1)   The City of Emily shall renew an annual registration of a state-
licensed cannabis retail business at the same time OCM renews the cannabis
retail business' license.
         (a)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business shall apply to renew
registration on a form established by City of Emily.
         (b)   A cannabis retail registration issued under this section shall
not be transferred.
      (2)   Renewal fees. The City of Emily may charge a renewal fee for the
registration starting at the second renewal, as established in City of Emily's
fee schedule.
      (3)   Renewal application. The application for renewal of a retail
registration shall include, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Items required under division (C)(2) of this section; and
         (b)   Other items required by the Zoning Clerk and Zoning
Administrator to ascertain the registration is in compliance with the city
code.
   (E)   Suspension of registration.
      (1)   When suspension is warranted. The City of Emily may suspend a
cannabis retail business' registration if it violates the ordinance of City of
Emily or poses an immediate threat to the health or safety of the public. The
City of Emily shall immediately notify the cannabis retail business in writing
the grounds for the suspension.
      (2)   Notification to OCM. The City of Emily shall immediately notify the
OCM in writing the grounds for the suspension. OCM will provide City of Emily
and cannabis business retailer a response to the complaint within seven
calendar days and perform any necessary inspections within 30 calendar days.
      (3)   Length of suspension. 
         (a)   The suspension of a cannabis retail business registration may be
for up to 30 calendar days, unless OCM suspends the license for a longer
period. The business may not make sales during this period to customers if
their registration is suspended.
         (b)   The City of Emily shall reinstate a registration if OCM
determines that the violation(s) have been resolved.
      (4)   Civil penalties. Subject to M.S. § 342.22, Subd. 5(e), as it may be
amended from time to time, the City of Emily may impose a civil penalty, as
specified in the City of Emily's fee schedule, for registration violations, not
to exceed $2,000.
   (F)   Limiting of registrations. The City of Emily shall limit the number of
cannabis retail businesses to no fewer than one registration for every 12,500
residents within city limits of the City of Emily, first come/first served.
(Ord. 2024-06, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 154.03 REQUIREMENTS FOR CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Minimum buffer requirements.
      (1)   All uses are by Conditional Use Permit, not to exceed state maximum
standards for setbacks to schools, daycares, residential treatment facilities,
public parks including playgrounds and athletic fields and other cannabis
businesses.
      (2)   Pursuant to M.S. § 462.367, Subd. 14, as it may be amended from
time to time, nothing in this division (A) shall prohibit an active cannabis
business or a cannabis business seeking registration from continuing operation
at the same site if a school/daycare/residential treatment facility/attraction
within a public park that is regularly used by minors moves within the minimum
buffer zone.
   (B)   Zoning and land use.
      (1)   Cultivation. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for
cultivation are by a Conditional Use in the following zoning districts:
         (a)   Commercial Transition Zone (Outdoor and Indoor); and
         (b)   Highway Mixed-Use (Indoor and Outdoor).
      (2)   Cannabis manufacturer. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for
cannabis manufacturer are by a Conditional Use in the following zoning
districts:
         (a)   Commercial Transition Zone; and
         (b)   Highway Mixed-Use.
      (3)   Hemp manufacturer. Businesses licensed or endorsed for low-potency
hemp edible manufacturers are by a Conditional Use in the following zoning
districts:
         (a)   Commercial Transition Zone; and
         (b)   Highway Mixed-Use.
      (4)   Wholesale. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for wholesale
are by a Conditional Use in the following zoning districts:
         (a)   Commercial Transition Zone; and
         (b)   Highway Mixed-Use.
      (5)   Cannabis retail. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for
cannabis retail are by a Conditional Use in the following zoning districts:
         (a)   Commercial Transition; and
         (b)   Downtown Mixed-Use.
      (6)   Cannabis transportation. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed
for transportation are by a Conditional Use as in the following zoning
districts:
         (a)   Commercial Transition Zone; and
         (b)   Highway Mixed-Use.
      (7)   Cannabis delivery. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for
delivery are by a Conditional Use in the following zoning districts:
         (a)   Commercial Transition Zone; and
         (b)   Highway Mixed-Use.
      (8)   All other cannabis businesses licensed by the state not listed
above. All other cannabis businesses licensed by the state are by a Conditional
Use in the following zoning districts:
         (a)   Commercial Transition Zone;
         (b)   Highway Mixed-Use; and
         (c)   Downtown Mixed-Use.
   (C)   Hours of operation. Cannabis businesses are limited to retail sale of
cannabis, cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or
hemp-derived consumer products between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.,
Monday through Saturday and 11:00 a.m. until 6:00 p.m. on Sundays.
   (D)   Advertising. As allowed under §
152.070 for the underlying zoning district. Sign permits are required for all
signs erected.
(Ord. 2024-06, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 154.04 TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENTS.
   A license or permit is required for temporary cannabis events.
   (A)   License required. A license or permit is required to be issued and
approved by City of Emily prior to holding a temporary cannabis event.
   (B)   Registration and application procedure. A registration fee, as
established in City of Emily's fee schedule, shall be charged to applicants for
temporary cannabis events.
   (C)   Application submittal and review. 
      (1)   The City of Emily shall require an application for temporary
cannabis events.
         (a)   An applicant shall fill out an application form, as provided by
the City of Emily. Said form shall include, but is not limited to:
            1.   Full name of the property owner and applicant;
            2.   Address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant;
            3.   Full site plan;
            4.   Times of operation;
            5.   Proof of insurance at least equal to City of Emily tort
liability limits and naming the city as additional insured; and
            6.   Security plan approved by the County Sheriff’s Department.
         (b)   The applicant shall include with the form:
            1.   The fee as required in the city’s fee schedule; and
            2.   A copy of the OCM cannabis event license application,
submitted pursuant to M.S. § 342.39, Subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to
time.
      (2)   The application shall be submitted to the City Clerk, or other
designee for review. If the designee determines that a submitted application is
incomplete, they shall return the application to the applicant with the notice
of deficiencies.
      (3)   Once an application is considered complete, the designee shall
inform the applicant as such, process the application fees, and forward the
application to the Emily City Council that will approve or deny the request for
approval or denial.
      (4)   The fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
      (5)   A request for a temporary cannabis event that meets the
requirements of this section may be approved if the City Council makes the
finding that the event is in the best interest of the citizens of the city,
will not create undue hardships, stress infrastructure, safety, security,
environment or convenience of the citizens.
      (6)   A request for a temporary cannabis event that does not meet the
requirements of this section shall be denied. The City of Emily will notify the
applicant of the standards not met and the basis for denial.
      (7)   All events must meet all other applicable city codes for events and
event proposals.
      (8)   All uses of city property must be reviewed and approved by the City
Council, the City Council reserves the right to reject any application if the
City Council makes the finding that the request is not in the best interest of
the city, its citizens, creates a hardship, stresses infrastructure, safety,
security, the environment or the convenience of the citizens, and reserves the
right to set a fee for the use of city property commensurate with the costs to
the city of an individual application (case by case).
(Ord. 2024-06, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 154.05 USE IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall use cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp
edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products in a public place or a place of
public accommodation unless the premises is an establishment or an event
licensed to permit on-site consumption of adult-use.
(Ord. 2024-06, passed 10-8-2024)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Cites Code Section
M.S. Cites             Code Section
Ch. 12              33.25
12.25                  33.04
12.37                  33.06
13D.04                 30.21
14.57—14.70          111.37,
                       111.99
15.73, Subd. 3         94.03
18.77, Subd. 8         91.37
18.83, Subd. 2         91.37
18G.07                 91.02
28                     152.113
28.01, Subd. 3         152.113
28A.152                152.003
84.787, Subd. 7        71.02
84.81—84.00          71.20
84.92                  71.02
84.92, Subd. 8         71.02
84C.01-05              152.101
86B.005                90.16 
86B.201                90.15
86B.205                90.15
88.16—88.22          91.61
89.001                 91.02
89.01                  91.02
89.51—89.64          91.02
93.44—93.51          152.003
97B.001, Subd. 7       130.01
103F                   153.01
103G.005, Subd. 15     152.003
103G.005, Subd. 16     152.003
103G.245               153.06
115.01, Subd. 8        50.01
115.07                 50.01
115.55, Subd. 11       152.075
115.56, Subd. 2(b)(3)  152.075
116                    152.003
120A.05                154.01
120A.24                154.01
134                    31.17
144.50—144.56        152.003
152.0263, Subd. 5      154.01
157.16                 111.03
157.16, Subd. 3(d)     111.03
160.22                 91.02
168                    151.47
168.13                 91.20
168B.035               70.04
                       33.69,
168B.035, Subd. 2      70.07.
                       70.10
169.34, Subd. 2        70.11
169A                   71.21
203B                   31.15
216D                   94.06,
                       94.17
216B.02                94.03
216B.02, Subd. 4       94.03
216B.02, Subd. 6       94.03
                       94.11,
216D.01—216D.09      94.17,
                       94.26
237.16                 94.01
237.79                 94.01
237.81                 94.01
                       94.01,
237.162                94.03,
                       94.19
237.162, Subd. 4       94.03
                       94.01,
237.163                94.03,
                       94.19
237.163, Subd. 2(b)    94.02
237.163, Subd. 6       94.31
238                    94.03
238.086                94.01
245.462, Subd. 23      154.01
Ch. 299F               33.24
302A                   94.07
303.06                 110.04
306.15(b) and (c)      90.01
307.08                 152.003
308A                   94.03
325J.04, Subd. 2       110.08
327.23—327.35        152.102
333.01                 110.04
                       111.01,
                       111.02,
340A                   111.20,
                       111.23,
                       111.37,
                       111.99
340A.101               111.03,
                       111.22
340A.301, Subd. 6(a)   111.22
340A.301, Subd. 6(c)   111.22
340A.301, Subd. 6(d)   111.22,
                       152.003
340A.301, Subd. 6(i)   111.22
340A.301, Subd. 6(j)   111.22
340A.301, Subd. 7      111.22
340A.301, Subd. 7(b)   111.22
340A.4011, Subd. 1     111.22
340A.404, Subd. 1(b)   111.22
340A.404, Subd. 4(a)   111.22
340A.404, Subd. 4(b)   111.22
340A.404, Subd. 5      111.22
340A.408               111.23
340A.408, Subd. 5      111.22,
                       111.23
340A.409               111.25
340A.413, Subd. 3      111.20
340A.414               111.36
340A.504               111.34
340A.504, Subd. 3      111.22
340A.509               111.02
340A.801               111.25
Ch. 342                154.01,
                       154.02
342.01                 154.01
342.01, Subd. 50       154.01
342.11                 154.02
342.13                 154.02
342.13(c)              154.01
342.17                 154.01
342.22                 154.01,
                       154.02
342.22, Subd. 4(b)     154.02
342.22, Subd. 5(e)     154.02
342.24                 154.02
342.39, Subd. 2        154.04
344.02, Subd. l(a)-(d) 153.03
347.50—347.56        92.14,
                       92.15
347.52(a)              92.15
347.52(c)              92.15
                       131.01,
349                    131.02,
                       131.13
349.11—349.21        131.99
349.11—349.23        131.06,
                       131.07
349.12                 131.04
349.166                131.09
349.213                131.02
364.03, Subd. 2        110.04
364.03, Subd. 3        110.04
381.12, Subd. 3        152.131
415.02                 Adopting Ordinance
415.021                Adopting Ordinance
412.221, Subd. 23      152.003
412.221, Subd. 24      152.003
                       10.99,
                       94.24,
429                    150.44,
                       151.34,
                       151.99
                       91.02,
429.061                91.24,
                       151.51
                       91.02,
429.101                91.24,
                       91.43,
                       151.51
429.101, Subd. 1       150.44
453                    94.03
453A                   94.03
459.20                 90.15
462                    94.24,
                       153.01
462.351—461.364      152.002
462.357                154.01
462.358                152.139
462.358, Subd. 2b      152.139
462.3593               152.112
462.367, Subd. 14      154.03
463.15—463.26        91.01
463.17                 91.23
469                    31.50
469.001—469.047      31.51
469.090—469.108      31.51
469.124—469.133      31.51
505                    152.003,
                       152.134
505.515A               152.132
505.515B               152.132
515A                   152.003
515A.2-110             152.003
515B                   152.003
515B.1-106             152.101
606.01                 10.99
                       70.99,
609.033                71.99,
                       90.99
609.29—609.352       152.107
609.75—609.763       131.06,
                       131.99
609.415                10.99,
                       152.163
617                    152.107
617.23—617.299       152.107
626.862                10.20
631.48                 10.99
                       
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
08-13    6-10-2008   51.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.           Date Passed Code Section
                               30.01—
201                - -         30.07,
                               30.20—
                               30.23
202                - -         33.99
205                - -         31.01
206                - -         31.30—
                               31.37
208                - -         31.15
210                - -         31.50—
                               31.55
213                - -         31.16
301                - -         90.01,
                               90.99
302                - -         90.02,
                               90.99
303                - -         90.03,
                               90.99
                               131.01—
502                9-4-1984    131.14,
                               131.99
                               70.01—
701                - -         70.03,
                               70.99
                               71.20,
702                - -         71.21,
                               71.99
203.01             - -1984     31.02
209                9-10-1991   33.99
                               90.15—
703                3-26-2001   90.19,
                               90.99
211A               4-9-2002    32.01
211A               6-28-2002   32.01
501, 3rd Series    7-8-2003    111.29
501.16, 3rd Series 4-13-2004   111.05
705, 2nd Series    5-10-2005   90.30—
                               90.33
701.08, 2nd Series 2-14-2006   70.04
508                5-9-2006    110.01—
                               110.15
201.04, 1st Series 11-13-2007  30.03
201, 1st Series    2-11-2008   30.01
211B               10-14-2008  32.01
201                4-14-2009   30.20
-                  7-14-2009   10.99
906.12.4           7-14-2009   152.163
                               50.02—
                               50.10,
401, 1st Series    - -2010     50.25—
                               50.28,
                               50.99
401, 1st Series    8-17-2010   50.06
                               152.001—
                               152.018,
                               152.030—
                               152.033,
                               152.035—
                               152.043,  
                               152.055—
                               152.057,
906-2011           - -2011     152.070—
                               152.080,
                               152.084,
                               152.100—
                               152.111,
                               152.130—
                               152.140,
                               152.150—
                               152.162,
                               152.999
906-2011           4- -2011    152.035,
                               152.040
906-2011           4- -2011    152.035,
                               152.036
401, 1st Series    9-13-2011   50.26
401, 1st Series    10-11-2011  50.26
                               150.01—
                               150.03,
                               150.15—
-                  - -2012     150.26,
                               150.40—
                               150.46,
                               150.99
401, 1st Series    1-10-2012   50.26
906-202            5-8-2012    152.003
906-2012           5-8-2012    152.003,
                               152.070
-                  - -2013     50.05
320                5-13-2014   10.99
                               151.01—
                               151.13,
                               151.25—
450, 1st Series    5-13-2014   151.34,
                               151.45—
                               151.50,
                               151.99
450, 1st Series    2- -2015    151.51,
                               151.99
201, 1st Series    4-2-2015    30.01
906, 1st Series    8-11-2015   152.110
906, 1st Series    11-10-2015  152.152
450, 1st Series    3-8-2016    151.47
                               152.003,
906                4-12-2016   152.043,
                               152.084,
                               Ch. 152, App. A
-                  8-29-2016   152.112
401, 1st Series    12-13-2016  50.01,
                               50.26
211B, 1st Series   2-28-2017   32.01
906, 1st Series    2-28-2017   152.152
                               152.003,
                               152.035,
                               152.018,
                               152.043,
                               152.075,
                               152.080—
906, 1st Series    5-9-2017    152.086,
                               152.104,
                               152.105,
                               152.113—
                               152.114,
                               152.131,
                               Ch. 152, App. A
                               153.01—
907                8-8-2017    153.09,
                               153.99
                               152.003,
906, 2nd Series    12-11-2018  152.104,
                               Ch. 152, App. A
2019-01            1-3-2019    Adopting Ordinance
-                  - -         31.17
-                  - -         70.07
-                  - -         90.33
-                  - -         94.01—
                               94.32
-                  - -         150.17
                               152.003,
                               152.035,
                               152.036,
                               152.038,
-                  - -         152.070,
                               152.076,
                               152.110,
                               152.131,
                               152.043,
                               Ch. 152, App. A
                               152.003,
01-22              3-8-2022    152.115,
                               Ch. 152, App. A
02-22              2-8-2022    152.152
03-22              3-8-2022    152.035
04-22              4-12-2022   152.003,
                               152.115
23-01              2-14-2023   152.152
23-02              2-14-2023   152.075
23-03              11-14-023   Ch.152, App.A
23-04              11-14-2023  152.003
24-02              5-14-2024   152.042
2024-04            8-12-2024   33.20—
                               33.31
2024-06            10-8-2024   154.01—
                               154.05
24-07              12-10-2024  33.65
24-08              12-10-2024  111.05
24-09              12-10-2024  90.01
24-10              12-10-2024  50.26
24-11              12-10-2024  50.05
24-13              12-10-2024  50.01
                              
 
 
